














OTHER BOOKS BY MARGARET SHEPHERD
Learning Calligraphy
Using Calligraphy
Capitals for Calligraphy
Borders for Calligraphy
Calligraphy Made Easy
Calligraphy Projects
Calligraphy Alphabets Made Easy
Calligraphy Now
Reissued as A Manual of Modern Calligraphy
Basics of the New Calligraphy
Basics of Left-Handed Calligraphy
Modern Calligraphy Made Easy
Calligraphy for Celebrating Your wedding
Calligraphy for Celebrating Your Newborn
The Very Small Calligraphy Calendar
The Alphabet Advent Calendar
The ABC Advent Calendar




















    
BROADWAY BOOKSand its logo, a letter B bisected on the diagonal, are trademarks of Broadway Books, a division of Random House, Inc.


Learn Calligraphy. Copyright © 2001 by Margaret Shepherd. All rights reserved. Printed in the United States of America. No part of this book may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying recording or by any information storage and retrieval system, without written permission from the publisher.                       For information, address Broadway Books, a division of Random House, Inc., 1540 Broadway, New York, NY 10036.
Broadway Books titles may be purchased for business or professional use or for special sales. For information, please write to: Special Markets Department, Random House, Inc., 1745 Broadway, New York, NY 10019.
Visit our website at www.broadwaybooks.com

ISBN: 0-7679-0732-9eISBN: 978-0-7704-3459-5
Learn Calligraphy is an expanded revision of the original classic, Learning Calligraphy (1977), completely rewritten with new text and reillustrated with new calligraphy and new drawings.
v3.1









CONTENTS
Cover
Other Books by Margaret Shepherd
Title Page
Copyright
Acknowledgments
Dedication
Author's Foreword
THE ALPHAPETS IN THE ALPHABETS
SCRIBES & MATERIALS
THE VOCABULARY OF THE PEN
GETTING STARTED
SEEING CALLIGRAPHY
ROMAN
CELTIC
GOTHIC
GOTHIC CAPITALS
BOOKHAND
ITALIC
ITALIC CAPITALS & SWASHES
NUMERALS & PUNCTUATION








ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

I have been helped by many generous people in the process of writing this book. Those who tried out the practice exercises early on were particularly kind: students and faculty in Boston University School for the Arts workshop; members of the Connecticut Valley Calligraphers' guild; art teachers in the Framingham Schools in-service course; residents of Hale House; students in the City of Boston's Youth Fund Mural Crew; and a group of enthusiasts at the St. Botolph Club. J am grateful to Alston Purvis, Kathleen Borkowski, Leslie Miller, Jane Poltier, Heidi Schork, and Anita Lincoln for help in organizing these groups.
I want to thank my agent, Colleen Mohyde of Doe Coover, for helping bring this book to life. I am most grateful to my editor, Tricia Medved, who always seemed to have a clearer idea of what this book could become, and kept me at it until I saw it, too. It is a better book because of her.
I am extra grateful to my children—Jasper, Zack, Zoë, and Lily—who coped and cheered and pitched in, and to my husband, David Friend, who encouraged me all the way along.


The following material is used with the permission of its owners:
Detail from wall painting. Metropolitan Museum of Art, Egyptian Expedition, Rogers Fund, 1930. (30.4.44).
100 Ballads: Christine de Pisan writes. Ms. Fr. 835, fol. 1. (detail), Bibliotèque Nationale, Paris, France. Foto Marburg/Art Resource, NY.
Giovanni Stradano (1523-1605). The Printing of Books (details). 16th c. Bibliothèque Nationale, Paris, France. Giraudon/Art Resource, NY.
"Before the shot." (Sep. 3/15/58) by Norman Rockwell.Copyright © 1958 by the Norman Rockwell Family Trust.
Navy veteran Freddie Chase, sr., at the Vietnam Memorial. Photograph from Agence France Presse.
Inscribed marble slab advertising the Baths of M. Crassus Frugi. Found in 1748, re-used as a shelf within a shrine just outside the Herculaneum. Museo Archeologico Nazionale, Naples, Italy. The Pierpont Morgan Library/Art Resource, NY.
Carved inscription from the tomb of a Legionary. Landschaftsverband Rheinland/Rheinisches Landsmuseum Bonn.
Page from the Book of Kells. The Board of Trinity College, Dublin.
Lyrics of "Happy Talk" by Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein II. Copyright © 1949 by Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein II. Copyright renewed. Williamson Music owner of publication and allied rights throughout the world, international copyright secured. All rights reserved. Reprinted by permission.
Alphabet. Addison 31845. The British Library.
Silvestro dei Gherarducci. Nativity, in initial P. Single leaf from a Gradual. Italy, Florence, monastery of S. Maria degli Angeli, last third 14th c., 59.0 × 40.0 cm. M. 653, f.1. The Pierpont Morgan Library, NY, USA. The Pierpont Morgan Library/Art Resource, NY.Gherardo del Fora. Initial "H" with putti holding a shield. Italy (Florence) 1488. M.496, F.92. The Pierpont Morgan Library/Art Resource, NY.
These individuals generously lent or made Illustrations:


this page, this page, this page
Robert Boyajian


this page, this page
Barbara Karr for the estate of Edward Karr


this page
Jean Wilson, Lisa Richards


Material throughout the book by Tom Costello, Michelle Hlubinka, Zoë Friend, and Margaret Fitzwilliam is used with their permission. SPECIAL THANKS to Margaret Gorenstein, Gerhardt Gruitrooy, Winifred Kelley, Tom Hansen, Cassie Reynolds, Peyton Richter, Jasper Friend, and Yehudi Wyner.









Dedicated to Norberto Chiesa, extraordinary teacher:

"They have a wonderful author-editor relationship."
Copyright © 1952 by the New Yorker Collection/Richard Taylor from cartoonbank.com. All rights reserved.








AUTHOR'S FOREWORD

Learn Calligraphy is the book I wish I'd had when I first started out. I've put between its covers the lessons I've learned from many years of lettering. In it you will meet the basic alphabets I rely on, grouped in the categories that make sense to me. You will read about the materials I recommend and why, practice the exercises that I think will help you the most, and watch out for the mistakes that I learned to avoid.
Learn Calligraphy is also the book I wish I'd had when I first started to teach. It includes an overview of the main features of each alphabet, its historical importance, and a thorough grounding in the "why" to practice as well as the "how" to practice. The words you read are what I would say to you in person, the diagrams are what I would sketch on the board, the master alphabets are what I would letter for you to take home. This book will help you teach yourself, teach someone else, or teach a group.
Learn Calligraphy, however, is much more than a how-to book. I don't want you just to do what I do in calligraphy; I want you to see what I see, and love what I love. All the illustrations in this book, by me and by other calligraphers, have been chosen not only to instruct you but to inspire you. The art of calligraphy is about vision. After you read this book—with or without a pen in your hand—you will see the letters around you in new light.
Learn Calligraphy, in addition, is more than just what is shown on its pages. When you finish reading it will help you choose a direction to explore next. I have provided online help at margaretshepherd.com that includes guidelines to print out, tips for teaching sources for materials, answers to frequently asked questions, and suggested reading.
Learn Calligraphy, ultimately, is about more than calligraphy. It is about what can happen when people, learn to write, and to read, in the very best way. As soon as you begin calligraphy, you can use it every day to satisfy your eyes and challenge your mind and elevate your spirit. I wrote this book to show you how. Enjoy.

February second 2001









THE ALPHAPETS IN THE ALPHABETS

Each chapter in Learn Calligraphy introduces a creature who embodies some key aspect of the letter style. Although these particular animals are my own idea, they come from a worldwide, ages-old tradition of using natural objects as metaphors when words and diagrams are not enough. Chinese scribes have always turned to the landscape of rock and water to describe the shape of their strokes; Arabic scribes rely on the underlying forms of seeds and swords; Renaissance designers in Italy used the human body as a measuring device to keep the letter structure in balance.

Each alphapet helps show not only how the letter looks but how it acts. Cats interpret the Roman alphabets elegance and precision while emphasizing each letters individuality and distaste for crowding Celtic dragons have the body language, of cats on a power trip—funky, sprawling, egotistical, emphatic. Gothic penguins look virtually identical in their black tuxedos and don't mind being crowded into rows, except for the occasional peacock-feathered capital. The mild personality of the gentle, unpretentious bunny embodies the familiar Bookhand alphabet we take for granted everywhere. And Italic is personified by a nicely dressed human who can accessorize her little black dress to go anywhere.

Most of the alphapets came from the pen of constant sketcher Zoë Friend, whose cats prompted me to look for other animals in other alphabets. Michelle Hlubinka created and drew the dragons, thought up the bunnies, and drew many early drafts, Tom Costello drew the twin Roman guys.
I hope this zoo of animals, and the creatures you think up for yourself, will add an extra dimension to your enjoyment. Once you start to see them, from the Gothic penguins in the masthead of the morning newspaper to the silk scarf in every Italic swash, the alphabet will always be full of life for you.








SCRIBES & MATERIALS

Ever since humans begin speaking, they have supplemented their sounds with gestures. Writing is really an extension of gesturing — a way to make a motion visible, memorable, and lasting. For thousands of years, people wrote with whatever was handy. They kicked furrows in the sand, they cut notches on sticks, they pressed dents into clay, they tied knots in string, they painted symbols on bark, they scratched names on metal they scrawled messages on walls. The many different words we use for "calligraphy" reflect the many different ways to make a mark: script comes from words for "scrape" and "scratch"; the Greek -graphy ending appears in technical terms as well as "groove" and "engrave"; write shares roots with "render" and "works"; and text comes from the Latin sources for "texture" and "textile." Calligraphy with a pen is only one of the many ways people have thought up to make speech visible.

Our cultural ancestors the Romans, whose alphabet we still use today, were enthusiastic wall-writers. With a paintbrush or lump of charcoal, they wrote official announcements, advertisements, and political slogans, as well as gossip, insults, and jokes ("Everyone writes on walk but me" was among the perfectly preserved graffiti found under the ashes at Pompeii). They carved out the most important inscriptions to make them last, and painted the carved parts to make them readable.

With the decline of the Roman Empire, the conditions that had nurtured the Roman letter changed too. Gone were centralized authority with its official inscriptions, the network of commerce, the buildings of marble, the sunny Mediterranean cityscape. New alphabets and arts emerged all along the northern and western rim of the old empire as power dwindled at its center.
The Celtic scribes of the Dark Ages and the Gothic scribes of the Middle Ages worked indoors, in me colder, darker climate of northern Europe. With small pens made out of feather quills, they wrote small letters. Their main concern was to copy, glorify, and preserve the texts of the Christian religion. Working with a team of skilled illuminators, gilders, and miniaturists, the medieval scribes created richly decorated pages in styles that reflected the magnificent church architecture, textiles, and stained glass around them. The parchment pages were then bound between protective covers. For a thousand years writing was in the hands of specialists who raised the craft of calligraphy to the level of fine art, glorifying the word of their God.
During the Renaissance, Greek and Roman ideas were rediscovered, and with them the formal carved capitals of classical inscriptions and the pen capitals of early manuscripts. At the same time, the invention of moveable type and the adoption of paper making technology from Central Asia helped the printing press to replace the scribe as the main way to produce books. The emerging new Italic and Bookhand were yanked away from their pen origins and transplanted into the geometric metal world of type. For three centuries, master typographers and their apprentices perfected the design, cutting, casting, and setting of mechanically perfect type fonts. The visual purity of the typeset page became the new standard reading format for an increasingly literate public.

As people read more, they wrote more, and as the delivery of mail got more reliable, they wrote to each other. They modeled their handwriting on the pointed-pen letters of copperplate engraving and etching not the broad-pen letters of Italic type. The professional scribes profession disappeared. The craft of calligraphy hit a low point during the Industrial Revolution, when manufactured books, textiles, and housewares drove handmade things out of fashion.

Calligraphy was revived again some 130 years ago during England's Arts and Crafts Movement, along with many medieval techniques for cutting pens, mixing ink, tanning parchment, and laying gold leaf. Calligraphy and the related book arts began to attract designers and visionaries who revitalized the typeset page by reconnecting it to the handwritten manuscript.
Steel nibs and flexible fountain pen ink, reservoirs added convenience to early-20th-century calligraphy as graphic designers spread the hand-lettered alphabet to posters, signcards, logos, and book covers.

Another wave of interest in calligraphy swept America, in the 1970's as cartridge pens, markers, and copiers brought the mechanics of the craft down to the threshold the hobbyist. Amateurs found themselves with access to standardized, reliable, inexpensive materials; to color reproductions of the world's most inspiring manuscripts; to the written, spoken, and filmed advice of experts in the field; and the leisure to enjoy them all. The calligraphic talents of this generation of artists then fueled the alphabet innovations of the digital typeface revolution.
Even though today's calligraphers can use a computer to make thick and thin penstrokes, create alphabet fonts, design layouts, send images, and printout documents, the best letters still originate in a real pen on real paper. Traditional forms, and the pleasure that comes from lettering them by hand, will continue to shape the future of writing for a long time to come.
In this book we will study the seven basic letter styles of the last 2000 years by getting to know the materials and people that formed them. History teaches you about the letters; the letters teach you about history. When you begin calligraphy, you join a distinguished group of scribes who have seen the world, and shaped it, with their pens.


THE VOCABULARY OF THE PEN

As you read this book, you will find some specific terms you will want to know.





Letters look like each other upside-down


ALPHABET = HAND = STYLE = TYPEFACE = SCRIPT = FONT = CHARACTER SET
OTHER NAMES OF THE MAJOR ALPHABETS

ROMAN   Irajan, Quadrata, Rustica
CELTIC   Uncial, Half-Uncial, Irish, Insular
GOTHIC   Blackletter, Grotesque, Old English, Fraktur, Textura
GOTHIC CAPITALS   Lombardic, Versal, Majuscule
BOOKHAND   Roman Lowercase, Carolingian Minuscule, Foundational
ITALIC   Current, Cursive, Chancery, Chancellaresca
EQUIVALENT TERMS








GETTING STARTED
HOW TO CHOOSE WHERE TO START IN THE BOOK

The following pages will help you choose your materials, find a starting point, arrange a writing area, sharpen your vocabulary, & begin to learn calligraphy. You should think about what you want to achieve, for both the short term and further ahead; then choose a chapter to start with. Remember that while this book can guide you through a year of formal study, if you are in a hurry you cm turn directly to the specific alphabet that suits your project:
• Lay the foundation for understanding the visual principles of the alpabet: master the Roman alphabet, the purest style.
• Slam-dunk a project that has a tight deadline: the Celtic alphabet is quick to learn and easy to read.
• Make an award or a Christmas greeting: use Gothic letters and capitals.
• Introduce children to calligraphy: online or on a photocopy, let them paint color and gold on Gothic drawn capitals, or draw their own.
• Letter a quotation artistically: use Bookhand and any ornamental capital
• Improve your handwriting: follow the Italic practice exercises every day for a month. Include a variety of handlettered projects in your daily routine.
• Design a logo, monogram, or letterhead: combine Gothic or Italic capitals.
• Express yourself artistically: play with abstract swashes and punctuation.
• Throw a party, in any style: if you design an invitation and address the envelopes, you will need numerals and punctuation to match.
After you have browsed through the whole book, in an armchair, you should sit up and work through one chapter, at a desk. Once you have begin to master even one letter style, and as the people around you see your new skill, you will find calligraphy projects — and the projects will find you! — for years to come.


CHOOSE A PEN

You can learn calligraphy with the handcrafted tools of yesterday, the standardized products of today, or the emerging technologies of tomorrow. The person behind the pen is more important than the pen itself. Be adventurous; try a variety of pens from all eras; trust your judgment of what feels comfortable and looks right; compare strokes with other scribes.
To make your own traditional pen from bamboo or feather, shape it as shown here, using a very sharp knife.

If you prefer to buy a pen, you can read about the advantages and disadvantage on the following page and choose a dip pen, fountain pen, or marker. These pens make the same basic stroke shape as the handmade pens.
If you want the special split-pen stroke that appears on this page and this page, choose a metal nib, cut a notch out of a marker, or tape two pencils or pens together.

You don't have to have a broad-edge pen at all to learn the structure of Roman, Italic, Bookhand, and swashes. Pencil, ballpoint and chalk make monolines.

After you have familiarized yourself with the pens of yesterday and today, you should look around you for the pens of tomorrow. Spray cans, holograms, ink jet printers, pixels, and lasers will write some of the calligraphy of the future, guided by the hands and eyes—and hearts—of people like you. Whither you write with a peacock feather or a Popsicle™ stick, the most important thing is In the words of Edward Johnston, "To make good letters and arrange them well."


ADVANTAGES AND DISADVANTAGES OF EACH PEN
DIP PEN


THE ULTIMATE CHOICE
+ The thin metal nib is responsive and precise. The opaque ink that only a dip pen can accommodate has the virtues of permanence, intensity, and a rainbow of color choice. Nibs from half a dozen manufacturers can range from one inch down to 0.5 mm. Nibs are inserted interchangeably on the pen shaft, and sharpened or replaced when dull.
− The nib is delicate. Pushed strokes can snag a small nib on the paper surface and dry up a large nib's ink flow. It must be rinsed after every use It is available at only a few specialized art stores and mail-order sources. The open ink bottle can spill. Dipping the pen to fist the right depth or filling with a dropper can be awkward at first.
FOUNTAIN PEN


THE BEST OF BOTH WORLDS
+ The thick metal nib is sturdy. The pen is simple to carry and ready to use. Half a dozen nib widths offer enough choice for beginners' handwriting and lettering projects. The reservoir is easy to fill from a battle, or you can use foolproof ink cartridges.
− Fountain pen ink is transparent and often not fadeproof. Choice of ink colors is limited and basic, The tub is rigid and relatively blunt. Ink does not flow well through wide nibs, on the upstroke, or pointing uphill Ink can leak when air pressure changes.
MARKER


THE SIMPLE SOLUTION
+ The nib writes smoothly, even in large widths, on the upstroke, and pointing uphill. It is convenient to carry and effortless to use. It is cheap to buy and available every where. Ink does not leak out. Some inks are permanent, waterproof, and lightfast.
− Choice of nib width is limited to a few sizes. Ink colors are few and basic Some of the nib fibers get mushy after a few uses. The nibs are generally too blunt for small detail. Ink can fade. When dried up, the ink cannot be refilled.
MATERIALS LIST

PAPER Use inexpensive copier paper for practice, vellum or bond for finished projects.
PEN Choose a marker or fountain pen for ease of use at first; use a fountain pen or dip pen for finished projects.

INK Markers are non-refillable. Fountain pen ink is water-based and transparent. Dip pens can use India ink.

PENCIL #2, #2½, or #3 lead.
TAPE Low-tack drafting tape, not masking or transparent.
PAPERCLIPS Small and flat.
RULER Metal or metal-edged.
KNIFE Razor or X-Acto.®
ERASER Kneadable and soft.

SETTING UP


WRITE FLAT OR SLANTED OR VERTICAL

A slanted surface is a good compromise between a flat table and a vertical wall. You can buy an adjustable desk, or improvise your own by propping up a drawing board. Start with a slight incline. At steeper angles you may need to brace or hinge the bottom edge of the board to keep it from slipping forward. To make a light table, substitute thick glass, a large picture frame, or small window; light it from beneath.

PEN ANGLE

Each alphabet has a single1 specified pen angle that makes the thicks and thins occur in the right places. Hold the pen at this angle throughout the whole alphabet. Each chapter specifies the correct pen angle to use with the letter style.



COMPENSATING FOR LEFT-HANDEDNESS

The major challenge for virtually all left-handers is the pen angle. (Minor issues include the way the hand smears the ink or hides the just-finished stroke.) Although the alphabets in this book are historically geared to right-handers, the left-handed beginner can compensate with a mix of these three strategies:


Many left-handers curl their hands around like this, which makes the correct pen angle but reverses the direction of the stroke, turning natural pulls into awkward pushes.


1.The first solution to try is a different paper position. Rotate the page until the pen matches the correct angle for each alphabet you are learning (this angle is shown on each guideline page). A rotated page makes it physically comfortable to write the letter but hard to see.

Left-handers hold their pens at a variety of angles that can not be used to write the alphabets in this book correctly if the paper is straight. Look for your hand position below and reposition the paper as shown.
2.The second solution is to try different arm and hand positions while you keep the paper straight. Pull in your elbow and cock your wrist. This makes it easy to see the letter but awkward to write it.

Keep paper slightly to the left of your body.
3.The third solution to try is an oblique nib. This can help resolve the struggle between a comfortable writing position and an undistorted view of the practice page.

File off a metal nib or buy one already oblique. A marker can be trimmed.

The oblique nib lets you make this pen angle ... with this hand position.

IF ALL ELSE FAILS

If none of these strategies feel comfortable to you, don't let the struggle with the pen angle prevent you from learning calligraphy. It is much better to do without thicks and thins, at first, than to learn them in the wrong places. You don't have to use a broad-edge pen at all to begin Roman, Bookhand, Italic, and swashes.2 Left-handers—and right-handers, for that matter, if pen angle is a stumbling block—can practice these alphabets with ballpoint, pencil, thinline marker, or fountain pen. After mastering the letters' basic structure, you can retry the broad-edge pen at the correct angle for the style.

A monoline pen can be held at any pen angle.

A broad-edge pen demands a specific pen angle.

The steepness of the work surface will help you satisfy at least three3 related demands: the eye should see clearly, the body should move comfortably, and the ink should flow smoothly.
HOW VARIOUS ANGLED WORK SURFACES RECONCILE THE DEMANDS OF EYE, ARM, AND INK

Visual distortion matters less at smaller sizes.20-30 kilograms of upper-body weight rests on your forearm preventing it from motion and tensing up the wrist and hand.Ink flows by capillary action, aided by gravity.

Reduced weight on forearm reduces friction and relaxes wrist and hand muscles.Gravity continues to aid ink flow.

Almost no weight on forearm ensures freedom of motion.In a horizontal pen ink flows by capillary action unaided by gravity.

Absence of visual distortion is crucial at large sizes.Easel or wall

2 RULES ABOUT GUIDELINES

Practice with guidelines, not on blank paper.
Practice with guidelines the right size for the pen & alphabet.

EIGHT WAYS TO MAKE GUIDELINES

1. Fasten thin paper over the guideline page so that the lines show faintly through.

2. Use an copy machine to run multiple copies of the guideline page provided for each chapter. (These are the only pages in this book that you may copy, and only for your own use.)

3. Buy a pad of ordinary blue-lined paper in a size to match your guidelines. For large letters, mark off 2 or 3 lines together.

4. Use the edge the guideline page as a ruler to measure a row of tic marks on the left and right margins of a blank sheet. Then connect them with pencil and straightedge.

5. Rule larger paper with a T-square or triangle, penciling firm lines for practice, lighter ones to erase from finished work.

6. Make envelope address templates by cutting slots in stiff cards for pencil lines.

7. Type in and print out pages of hyphens & periods to suit your particular pen size.
8. Download and print out guidelines from the website: www.margaretshepherd.com

DIAGNOSING THE MOST COMMON PROBLEMS

Using guidelines 8 times the height of the width of your chosen pen, practice a row of evenly spaced straight strokes.

Compare your practice strokes to the examples below, to identify and solve problems with either writing or seeing.

PROBLEMS HANDLING THE PEN

Fountain pen is empty or clogged

Ink gushes out when cartridge pen is nearly empty.

Flat end of nib is not solidly touching paper.

Paper is too absorbent for your lettering speed.

Back of paper shows extent of blotting.

Marker is mushy, sometimes trailing stray fibers, or dried up.
PROBLEMS VISUALIZING THE LETTERS

Letters are unevenly spaced.

Letters lean away from true vertical by various degrees.

Strokes extend beyond or stop short of the guidelines.

The nib is too wide or too narrow for the height of the guidelines.

Pen angle changes between strokes.

Backward pen angle. You are left-handed! See this page and this page.


1 Except Roman, which requires two different pen angles.
2 Not Celtic or Gothic.
3 Gravity will help unattached objects stay on a horizonal surface and let them fall off a slanted surface so watch out.








SEEING CALLIGRAPHY

Calligraphy is a fine art like painting, sculpture, printmaking ,drawing, or photography—a way of seeing life and of telling what you see. The well-trained, intelligent, creative calligrapher can explore the world of visual art as thoroughly as any painter. Through calligraphy you can learn about proportion, color and line, positive and negative space, depth perception, and light. You can experiment with a wide variety of materials, work at any size from miniature to monumental, and letter in every genre from landscapes to portraits.

Calligraphy also has much in common with handicrafts and decorative arts such as stained glass, tapestry, goldwork, and bookbinding where objects that are already useful are made beautiful, too. People respond to this quality of generosity, which elevates ordinary things by making them out of finer materials, with better workmanship, than their function requires.
Most calligraphy has a third dimension—literary. Your work carries an intellectual message in the content of its text. In presenting this text to the reader, you are like an actor speaking lines in a play; you strive to to help the audience understand the author's meaning while you seek to deepen their appreciation (and your own) for what the art of calligraphy can do.
The best calligraphy has all three dimensions—a fine art, a craft, and a literary art. You, the calligrapher, bring together a striking visual idea, a high level of craftsmanship with fine materials, and a quotation chosen with care. But your work needs a further dimension—passion. You must have something to say. Show the reader why the text first caught your imagination, how the authors words spoke to you, what images you saw in your mind's eye. As you explore the other dimensions of calligraphy, don't forget the fundamental reason for every art—to speak from the heart, clearly, about what you have observed.
While you write your calligraphy letter by letter, keep in mind that your readers will see it as a whole. You communicate something to them through the overall layout of the page, the skill and materials, and the choice of text, plus the interaction among these three elements. Don't forget that you are usually very close to the paper for hours when you letter; the details that seem so important at ten inches are not what your readers will first notice at ten feet.

To take a fresh look at your rough draft or finished page (or to study other people's designs), get up from your chair and step into their shoes. Stand where they stand; look through their eyes. Hold the paper at arm's length. Tape it to the wall and back off. Squint at it. Turn it upside down. Look at its reflection in a mirror. Glance at it. Stare at it. Go out for coffee and look at it later. Try to SEE it for the first time.

The purpose of this book is to help you learn the basic letter forms of the broad pen alphabet and then arrange them into beautiful, interesting original pieces of calligraphy. Beyond the shape of each individual letter, a good calligraphy design communicates on these levels:
LAYOUT. Is it balanced? Appealing? Challenging? Does the empty space help you read the lettered areas? Does the shape of the text make sense when you read the words? Is there variety as well as repetition? Do the colors and decoration stick out of the design, or, enhance it? Have you, the artist, learned something?

Left: Balanced   Right: Unbalanced
CRAFT. Does the letter style harmonize with the layout? Does it suit the period, subject, sentiments, or nationality of the text? Do the materials overwhelm the design with their richness or undermine it with their starkness? Is the quality of workmanship as good as the materials? Is the lifespan of the materials appropriate to the piece?

Left: German word, German letters   Right: German word, Celtic letters
TEXT. Is the quotation a good choice? Well worded? Of enduring interest? Too brittle or too ponderous? Too short or too long? Too unfamiliar—or too familiar—to engage the reader's curiosity? Choose with sincere affection, as the author of a good quotation becomes your partner in the creative process.

Left: Elegant quote, elegant letters   Right: Trivial quote, elegant letters
SPACE
As you learn to look carefully at a piece of calligraphy both from ten inches and from ten feet, you will gradually recognize that the white shapes are just as real as the black strokes. The critical concept of negative space means that the empty space in and around the letters is as important as the letters.

First, look at the space inside the letter: Watch it take shape as you move the pen.

Second, look at the space between letters. Learn to estimate the area, rather than the distance, between letters and between words.

Third, look at the space between lines.
Fourth, look at the space between the text and the edge of the page. Visualize these margins in terms of positive & negative space when you plan your design.

MARGINS
As you learn to write the penstrokes that form each alphabet in this book, you will also be mastering the white spaces that art created by those strokes.
Thumbnail sketches help you visualize a variety of possible margins for your design.
BALANCED Both left and right edges are straight, and centered on the page.

BALANCED
FLUSH LEFT The righted is ragged; the left edge is straight. (The reverse is rarer.)

FLUSH LEFT
SHAPED The line length is controlled to make the words form objects or geometric shapes.

SHAPED
FREE-FORM Both left and right edges are ragged. The whole page, however, is balanced.

FREE-FORM
SPACE SURROUNDING THE READER AND THE PAGE
The spaces in & around the letters on the surface of the page are not the only spaces you bring to life with your pen. Calligraphy at its best opens up the space all around it, letting the people who look at it feel that they & the letters share a special world. You can create this world if you plan the design with its purpose clearly in mind. Visualize where it will be seen & what you can do to help it belong there.

First, imagine or look at the actual place where the design will he displayed. How big is it, what are its proportions, what materials is it made of? How much light is there, what kind, from what angle? Will the letter style look right in the book or building that holds it?

Next, put yourself in the viewers' shoes. How will they encounter your calligraphy: turning a page, meditating in church, strolling along a city sidewalk, sitting by a friend's hearth, clicking on an icon, opening an envelope? Will they set the design before they read its words, or read it before they really look at it?

Finally, consider the viewers' likely state of mind. Will they be hurried or at leisure? Confident or anxious, joyful or in pain? Do they seek novelty or crave reassurance? Your calligraphy makes it easy for them to step into your world.









100 B.C.-A.D. 400
 ROMAN LETTERS, LIKE SO MUCH OF ROMAN CULTURE, EVOLVED FROM CENTURIES OF TRADE AND CONQUEST AROUND THE RIM OF THE MEDITERRANEAN SEA. THE IDEA OF SPELLING SOUNDS WITH LETTERS CAME FROM THE PHOENICIANS TO THE GREEKS, AND FROM THEM TO THE ROMANS.  AS ROMAN POWER GREW & SPREAD, THE ALPHABET BECAME AN ESSENTIAL TOOL FOR MAINTAINING THE EMPIRE — ITS PROPAGANDA, MILITARY RECORDS, MONUMENTS, INSCRIPTIONS. IN THE FIFTEEN CENTURIES THAT FOLLOWED THE FALL OF ROME, EVERY REVIVAL OF CENTRALIZED POLITICAL POWER, EVERY REBIRTH OF PHILOSOPHY AND ART REVIVED THE ROMAN ALPHABET TO MAKE ITSELF SEEM MORE LEGITIMATE.  BEYOND ITS EVOCATION OF THE IMPERIAL PAST, THOUGH, THE ROMAN ALPHABET HAS SURVIVED TO BECOME THE WORLD'S STANDARD SCRIPT BECAUSE OF ITS STRENGTH. BEAUTY, AND RESILIENCE. IT IS EASY TO WRITE AND TO READ IN MANY MATERIALS, AT VIRTUALLY ANY SIZE. 
CHOOSE A KIND OF PEN AND A SIZE OF PEN


You cannot appreciate the beauty of the thicks and thins, the precision of the joins, and the shape of the serifs, until you have tried the Roman alphabet at huge size so each letter fills up a whole page.

Use a flat brush, marker, or tandem pencils to make letters of monumental scale.
Large letters encourage large arm motions and reveal details of construction, while allowing repetitive practice on reasonable-size paper.

If you have ever wanted to try a dip pen, now is the time. Because virtually all Roman strokes are pulled downwards, one by one, the friction and snags that handicap the dip pen in other alphabets won't trouble you here.Dip pen or marker where nib is on the above-mentioned image.
The letters in this chapter are illustrated at medium size to show a great deal of detail while making them physically easy to practice.

A good practice size for dip pen, fountain pen, or marker.
You should resist the temptation to practice Roman letters at small size, especially with a fountain pen or a marker, as you will grind in bad habits without being aware of them.

Dip pen or fountain pen.

You can letter this small, but if you practice this small, you won't learn anything useful.

Hold the pen this way to make a stack of strokes for measuring letter height.
Whether you practice at huge, large, or medium size, you can always choose the weight of the letter. The width of the pen nib is used as a unit of measure in relation to the height of the letter. Roman capitals traditionally look best at a height of 8 to 12 nib widths.

At light weights, Roman will gain elegance but lose the flow of contrasting thick and thin strokes, the unifying serif, and some of its visual strength.


To determine the best letter height for a pen that you already have, turn it sideways to make a stack of pen strokes for a measuring stick...

...or conversely, to determine the best pen width for a particular letter height, divide that height by 81 and go shopping for a pen.

Heavy weights diminish the elegance of the Roman letter, thicken the joins, decrease legibility, and overwhelm the serif.


PEN ANGLE RULES

Roman capitals demand special attention to the pan angle. You cannot write the whole alphabet with the same pen angle. Most strokes are made with the pen at an angle of about 20°, while others require an angle of about 45°—don't let it waffle in between!



The thick and thin strokes should be the same relative weight in both letters.
For most Roman letters, hold the pen at a 20° pen angle by moving your elbow near your ribs, or by aiming the pen shaft up toward your collar bone.

When you see this symbol, practice at least 20 repetitions of the stroke or letter shown.
For a few of the letters, hold the pen at a 45° pen angle by moving your elbow a way from your ribs or by aiming the pen toward your elbow.

Letters with 45° pen angle strokes are clustered toward the end of the alphabet. Most, in fact, represent mainly later additions to Latin, brought in from Greek and elsewhere, and modified to make their diagonals harmonize with Roman verticals and horizontals.

PEN ANGLE EXCEPTIONS

A few Roman letters contain a mix of 20° and 45° strokes, so that you have to change pen anges in the middle of a letter.

Watch out for places where strokes made with different pen angles meet or overlap. Precision is impossible, but you can take care to avoid gaps and tangles in the joins.

2-ANGLE LETTERS
The most complicated letter, Z, has an awkward, unique pen angle of backward 20° (actually 160°) to make its middle stroke fit in with the weight of the main strokes of all the other Roman letters.

AWKWARD BUT NECESSARY ANGLE
The most subtle manipulation of pen angle by far, however, happens in the midstroke of Roman S. The pen must change angle throughout the curve, going smoothly from 20° to 45° and back again, to avoid thinning out and weakening the middle of me letter.

OPTIONAL SUBTLETY
When you begin to practice, be sure you do not change the pen angle without being aware of it. Many beginners put the heel of the hand firmly in one spot on the paper when they should be learning to move it along after two or three strokes.

WRONGIf you don't move your hand across the paper as you letter, a 45° pen angle at the beginning will mutate gradually into an almost flat angle.

BASIC ROMAN STROKES

Virtually all Roman letters are put together from straight lines and sections of a circle.
Verticals reach either full or half height.

Horizontals extend to a stub, short, or medium width at top, bottom, or middle level.

Large O-Curves follow the outline of a circle the diameter of the letter's full height.

0-curves will be easier to practice in tandem than singly.
Small O-Curves follow the outline of circles with diameters just under or over half height.

Diagonals lean left or right at several different steep or moderate slopes.

45° pen angle (see this page).
HYBRID STROKES combine lines and curves. Diagonals with a shallow slope end with a barely perceptible bend. The S curve begins and ends a steep diagonal with 2 short sections of the small circle.




BASIC ROMAN JOINS

The basic strokes in the previous section join each other in four different ways to make the 26 letters of the Roman alphabet.
Two curves, or a curve and a straight stroke, can touch at their sharp points.


TOUCH
A vertical and a horizontal can meet at their flat ends.

Pause and change direction. Don't lift the pen. Don't change the pen angle.

MEET
A vertical and a horizontal, or either one with a diagonal, or two diagonals, can overlap, midstroke or at their ends.


OVERLAPMeetD has 3 different joins: overlap.
Two diagonals can cross.


CROSSAn alternate W is constructed arround X

PROPORTIONS

The Roman alphabet is based on careful attention to the proportions of the letters; they are all the same height but they vary in width.

Note that these categories concern only the width of the letters, (not pen angle ) (or spacing).
These letters are exactly as wide as their height. They fit inside a square.

These letters are half as wide as their height. They fill half a square.

These letters are three-quarters as wide as their height. They fit into a rectangle.

These letters are wider than a square.

These letters are the width of one stroke.
ROMAN VISUAL SUBTLETIES
While Roman letters may seem to rely on a purely geometric structure, they in fact use many subtle visual compromises.

Tom Costello
Letters that appear to be divided exactly in half really cross just slightly above...

...or below the geometric center.

Thick, curved strokes that form the leg or tail of K, Q, and R, are in fact mainly straight, and curve a little at the very end.

Do not let the tail get too thick for the letter.

C and G follow the asymmetrical outline of an egg, not the symmetrical outline of a circle. Many other Roman letters are slightly adjusted from geometry.

egg
Calligraphers have searched for 2,000 years to find a system for the Roman letter that accommodates the ideals of pure geometry to the realities of the human mind and eye.

ROMAN

SERIFS
A serif finishes off the stroke ends with a small sideways motion that serves many purposes. It covers the central nib split at the start of the stroke, and distributes the accumulated ink at the end; it rounds off the comers of angular spaces both in and between letters; it expresses the underlying motions of the pen from stroke to stroke; and it gives the 26 individualistic letters of the Roman alphabet a unified style to wear on their hands and feet.

The entry serif gets the ink flowing and bridges the gap in the nib.A serif motion cleans up this edge.

As the pen pulls a stroke, ink particles, lint, and paper fibers will accumulate underneath. An exit serif spreads it all out.side view

Serifs transform a diverse group of letter widths and shapes into a unified team by standardizing the ends of the letter strokes.
WHERE TO PUT SERIFS ON LETTERS
Serifs belong on the ends of vertical and diagonal strokes that do not already meet or touch another stroke. Overlap is O.K.

Serifs are optional on the unattached ends of horizontal strokes. Choose from two forms for the right end of the stroke.

To make this little triangular serif, lean onto the right nib corner as you move it down and lift the pen off the paper.
Serifs do not belong on tails, joins, or the thin ends of curved strokes.

Keep your Roman serif small at first, so as not to slow down or disrupt either your physical rhythm of writing or your readers visual rhythm of reading.
A simple serif is shown in detail at right and applied to a basic alphabet below.

Left: Visualize a center line.Center: Curve stroke to intersect guideline and center line.Right: Serif is made of small curve plus hairline.

Practice serifs in separate strokes, repeated single letters, letter families, words, sentences, and whole pages. Then write in alphabetical order.

HARLINE

CURVE

SLAB

OFFSET SLAB

COMPOUND
SPACING
To space the Roman letters evenly, you must train your eye to estimate the area—not the distance—between the right edge of the last letter and the left edge of the next. Visualize the spaces between Roman letters as ant farms, where each different shape is filled up with the same amount of sand. The 26 letters combine to make 676 pairs, of which most are duplicates. Some 2 dozen kinds of letter spaces are formed by strokes classified as straight, convex, or concave.

The basic unit of spacing is a rectangle a little wider than half its height. The eye then visually "pours" this amount into the trapezoids and parallelograms made by straight strokes.

The convex strokes of the closed round letters make spaces that resemble croissants and hourglasses.


Concave letter edges occur in open and closed letters when 2 strokes meet at an angle. They seem to be enclosed in an invisible elastic boundary that can bulge out or suck itself in.

CHOOSING A TEXT
Roman letters area natural choice for texts of serious tone, stately pacing, dignified phrasing and enduring importance. Use Roman for shorter rather than longer passages, from a single capital or a few letters to a dozen lines or so. Make longer quotations more inviting to the eye by varying the letter size. Stick with prose that you can justify rather than poetry that must remain uneven at the right margin. Choose Roman capitals for monuments, title pages, bookplates, monograms, memorials, logos, letter heads, and, of course, any quotation in Latin.

"HOT TUB Salt water and fresh"
Roman letters look most authentic when the space between the lines is narrower than the height of the letters themselves.





Tom Costello

Ed Karr
AFTER ROMAN
In the waning days of the Roman Empire, all over its former dominions, the capital letters that had once seemed eternal started to change. Far from home and influenced by local styles, the exquisitely proportioned alphabet of narrow letters, medium letters, and wide letters gradually deteriorated into several visually naive alphabets where either all the letters were narrow or all the letters were wide. Narrow Roman, called Rustica for its resemblance to the vertical Etruscan runes of northern Italy, requires a single steep pen angle of nearly 60°.

Serifs are heavy, short, and wavy

Steep pen angle makes verticals thinner than horizontals.
Wide Raman, called Quadrata for its squareness, uses a single shallow pen angle of between 0° and 15°.


Serifs are thin and straight, sometimes pulled with the corner of the nib.

Flat pen angle makes verticals thicker than horizontals.
Quadrata spans the alphabet's transition from the rigorous structures of classical Rome to the misty fantasies of Dark Age Celtic Ireland.




1 Or more, for a lighter letter.









500-800-1200

Pronounce with hard c as in cat.
 Fter the decline of the roman empire, other countries adopted the roman letter, tailoring it to suit their social purposes and artistic styles. When st. Patrick introduced Christianity into ireland in  500, he brought with him texts in Quadrata, the Rounded and simplified version of Roman capitals. The celts copied these scriptures, rounding the letters even more to go with celtic coils and spirals.   At the same time, the scribes employed a local script—Runes, a viking alphabet outside the Roman tradition. Originauy scratched into wood, stone, or metal,  Transformed The imported Roman capitals  nearly abstract alphabet that contrasts dramatically with the curved text letter.
HOOSE A KIND OF PEN AND A SIZE

Celtic offers a different lesson at each different size.

A small marker or fountain pen lets you create variations on the basic shape by writing faster and more casually.
A medium-size letter, written carefully with a wide fountain pen or dip pen, lets you form the serifs and joins with precision.
You can write the strokes of the largest Celtic letters using tandem pencils, a huge dip pen, a flat brush, or an oversize marker, traditionally, however, page-size letters were outlined and filled in with color, gold, complex ornament.
TEN CELTIC CHARACTERISTICS
In place of firm rules and practice exercises, this letter style depends on each calligrapher's combination of the ten main characteristics. Conveniently, they all start with the later C: comfort at all sizes, choice of weights, changeable pen angle, compound serifs, chunky extenders, common case font, cute proportions, coils that continue, curves that stretch, and contained spaces. Study the characteristics summarized here and detailed in the next six pages. Pay attention to them while you learn the basic Celtic alphabet, choosing the characteristics that seem important to you after you read about them in detail.
No single characteristic is essential, but together they define the Celtic style.

COMFORT AT ALL SIZES

CHOICE OF WEIGHTSTop: Thin pen.Center: Medium pen.Bottom: Wide pen.

CHANGEABLE PEN ANGLE

COMPOUND SERIFStwo stroke overlapping

CHUNKY EXTENDERSshort

COMMON CASE FONTCapital and small letters of the same height

CUTE PROPORTIONS

COILS THAT CONTINUE

CURVES THAT STRETCH

CONTAINED SPACES
HOICE OF WEIGHTS
Celtic letter weight is a tradeoff, not a formula. In deciding between heavier or lighter weight, the scribe balances impact vs. elegance, power vs. nimbleness, the loud vs. the articulate. Celtic letters are easiest to learn at medium weight; they can, however, add or lose a few pounds and still please the eye, read clearly, and look every bit as Celtic.

HANGEABLE PEN ANGLE
The most historically authentic Celtic Letters use a flat, 0° pen angle that aims me pen up and down, like the hour hand of a clock at 6:00. But you can adapt the letters to a more comfortable pen angle of 15°-30°, which is used in this chapter. It is a matter of personal choice.


CONTINUOUS PEN ANGLE CHANGE In advanced Celtic technique, the pen angle actually changes while you letter, making a stroke that is slanted at the top and square at the bottom.
3 ways to write with a flat angle.

keep your elbow up against your ribs; or

route both your arm and your paper; or

use an oblique pen point to reconcile arm comfort with level paper.
OMPOUND SERIF
The distinctive wedge-shaped serif is built up from one—straight stroke and one curved one. They overlap at the top of most vertical letter strokes and a few diagonals.
Practice to achieve precision. A uniform serif will give your alphabet of widely differing letters an overall Celtic "look."

VERTICAL SERIFWhichever stroke you start with, these thin lines will help you position the other stroke accurately.
Supplement the vertical serif with one built up from two horizontal strokes. At heavier line widths you may not need much extra serif build-up or any at all.

HORIZONTAL SERIF
An optional flat serif may be added to accentuate the free end of a curved stroke.

HUNKY EXTENDERS

The strokes that extend up and down from the letter body do not reach very far—just enough to distinguish similar letters from each other. And even though short extenders let you squeeze lines of Celtic lettering together to create a dense texture on the page, when you spread the lines apart, these extenders still cling dose to their letters.

A little extra height is all that distinguishes H from otherwise identical N.
OMMON CASE FONT
By compressing the extenders of some letters & cutting off the extenders of others (above), Celtic scribes created letters that are not strictly capital ok lowercase, but a blend of both. These hybrids are freely mixed together with capital and lowercase firms between the same guidelines. Some letters appear in several different versions on the same page and in the same word.

UTE PROPORTIONS
Celtic letters express their playfulness in countless ways: tangling stretching and coiling; sprouting faces and feet; morphing into animals, people, and birds. Celtic manuscripts are so thickly carpeted with ornament, it sometimes threatens to upstage the text. The beginning calligraphy may start to think of the ornament as fun and the alphabet as work.
Luckily, however, the playful nature of Celtic does not, in fact, depend on extra ornament but is built into the very structure of the letter shapes themselves. Celtic proportions bring many letters to life with the unmistakable cuteness of baby animals. Three specific principles help create the appealing illusion:
Young creatures look cute because their heads are big and their bellies are soft. Letter bodies can mimic these baby bodies with top- or bottom-heavy proportions and bulgy curves.

Young creatures look cute because their ears and feet are too big for their bodies. Letters can evoke this gentle clumsiness with big serifs (this page) and naive—little decorative strokes.

Young creatures look cute because whenever they feel vulnerable, they stay warm and safe by curling up. Celtic letters can curl up, too (this page), to create an air of innocent trust that appeals to the reader's instinctive emotional response to a sleeping baby—even a baby letter!

OILS THAT LENGTHEN
Many Celtic litters start or finish with a curve where other letters are straight. Some of these curves keep going, to form Celtic coils & knots that fill the space inside the letter after they have formed it. If you need a thinner line turn the pen slightly so that only a corner of the nib touches the paper. Or simply come back later to fill the space with a different pen or brush (see far right, top).

straight strokecurvecoilKnotinterlacing
URVES THAT STRETCH
While the strokes that form each letter can add length (above) that curls around to fill the space inside the letter, they can also expand the space inside the the letter. Some letters are irrepressible exhibitionists who can't resist spreading their wings when they find themselves with a little extra space at the end of a line.

ONTAINED SPACE INSIDE LETTERS...
Celtic calligraphy creates rounded spaces inside the letters, which Celtic ingenuity finds many ways to fill. In addition to the coils & curves made by the calligraphy pen (previous page), the space inside the letter can be filled with a variety of thinner pen strokes, outlined ornament, dots, solid color, and gold leaf The decorations were traditionally added by an artist other than the scribe, using specialized tools and materials (this page and this page).

...AND SPACE BETWEEN LETTERS
Celtic spacing between the letters can be as elastic as the shape of the letters themselves, choose spacing that expresses the tone of voice you hear when you read the tat, while anticipating how familiar your reader already is with the words.

CELTIC

Practice first in the categories shown above, in medium size, at medium weight, at this pen angle. Then try different sizes, weights, pen angles, and proportions. Add alternate letters as you progress.

ONLINE GUIDELINESwww.margaretshepherd.com
CHOOSING A TEXT
Celtic letters bring a fresh and idiosyncratic visual style to the page as well as historical associations with the Dark Ages and all things Irish. Choose Celtic for scripture, short sayings, old Celtic texts, new Irish writers, logos, and headlines. With lengthy texts, help the reader decipher easily by choosing plainer letters as alternates, "justifying" both margins, and spacing the letters evenly.


Tom Costello


Tom Costello









RUNES
Throughout the first millennium, as the Roman Empire expanded into northern Europe, Ireland, and England, and then subsided, the rounded Raman capitals reached a variety of visual compromises with the local Viking runes. These tall, angular hybrids provide dramatic contrast with the plump, coiled Celtic text letters. You can get acquainted with the Runic capitals by deciphering them from old and new calligraphy, using a little Latin, a lot of imagination, and a tolerance for whimsy.

From Celtic Art by George Bain
You can also make your own runes to fit your design by compressing rounded capitals into rectangles, like pushing hats into shoeboxes; trimming off extra strokes or cramming the extenders in; reinforcing the corners; filling empty areas with dots; and surrounding the letter's structure itself with knots, coils, colors, dots, and inter lacings.

Over the next few centuries, rounded Celtic evolved into pointed Gothic. By the turn of the millennium, the individualistic Celtic letters had been re-costumed into tuxedos and lined up in formal rows.










1100-1500


Gothic packs more words' into less space than virtually any other Alphabetic script style.

gothic scribes combined the curves of Roman capitals with the angles of Northern runes. The pointed letters harmonized with the pointed arches and narrow vertical lines of medieval architecture and costume.
Useful as well as artistically expressive, the Gothic alphabet can be squeezed dramatically to fit a lot of text onto a very small piece of parchment.
"Gothic survives today for ceremonial use in diplomas, mastheads, awards, and Christmas greeting cards.
 
CHOOSE A KIND OF PEN AND A SIZE


Gothic lettering will reward careful practice. The strokes and squares must touch and meet with a geometric precision that helps the reader read and keeps this extremely heavy letter from actually looking heavy on the page. Truly precise joins will be possible only with a sharp pen. Check the pen's sharpness by moving it sideways to make a hairline. If this hair line is thicker than  the width of the stroke, your pen needs sharpening or placing if your pen is so blunt that the stroke is fuzzy at the edges or rounded at the corners, you cannot do the Gothic alphabet at all.

To get the most out of Gothic, work large enough to see clearly. As you advance, however, practice small to focus your eye on the overall texture of the repeated strokes.

stroke

POSITIVE AND NEGATIVE SPACE
To maintain the precision that keeps the Gothic letter beautiful & readable, you must train your eye to see two shapes at once: the six-sided one outside and the four-sided one inside: the penguin's tuxedo and his shirt. The hexagonal outline tricks the beginner into trying to write its six sides with six strokes
Now, however, look at the inside shape of the letter, the shape enclosed by the four strokes and squares. According to the generalized Gothic rule, this space will be no wider than the width of the stroke itself. It has only four sides, forming an upright parallelogram This internal "window" repeats in the centers of a row of Gothic letters like an actual row of windows across the page. Look for this shape, or apart of it, at the heart of most Gothic letters, and build the structure of the letter around it. Use your eye to guide your hand & pen.
The Gothic letter consists of only two squares and two strokes lined up so they touch or meet exactly. The illusion of the fifth and sixth sides is created by the alignment of their flat endings.

Practice strokes and squares to get acquainted with your pen.
n Gothic most letters are constructed by lining up straight strokes with squares. These two main parts seem to slide around on a flat plane, like tiles or stained glass, touching at their points or meeting at their flat ends but almost never overlapping Also, almost no hairlines are necessary in Gothic.
here are just a, few letters that require overlaps or hairlines. Straight strokes and squares must be positioned carefully within the guidelines. The point of the square just touches the guideline. The straight stroke never does; instead, it always starts and stops just short of the guidelines so as to leave room for the square. Whether all the squares are needed in the letter or not, a place is kept for them.


BASIC GOTHIC CONSTRUCTION
Gothic letters are put together with precision from a small kit of interchangeable parts. The exercises here will help you seethe letters clearly so as to write them accurately.

The pen's thinnest hairline connects corners of invisible box.
A zigzag of the thickest & thinnest strokes helps you position the pen angle correctly.
Square strokes balance symmetrically on their points, which should only fast touch the guidelines or the points other squares.

Straight strokes make uniform black and white stripes that stop short of the guidelines.

Flat strokes about 2 nibs long track the guidelines or cross around the middle.

Squares join the top or bottom of the straight strokes. Pause and change the direction of the pen's motion, but do not lift the pen up or rotate it to change the pen angle.
Put squares and strokes together so they just touch and meet without gaps overlaps, thin lines or curves. Now you have the basic letter body, the model for the others, and the building block of the Gothic page.

SPACE IN AND BETWEEN LETTERS
The key to writing and arranging Gothic letters is to visualize them without their top and bottom squares. Viewed in isolation, these vertical strokes should lint up like a snow fence or a row of railroad ties.

A line of Gothic lettering follows three simple interrelated rules, which may seem self-evident but are easy for beginners to get wrong. Study the principles illustrated below:
1. Most of the vertical strokes are the same distance apart.

REGULAR VISUAL KHYTHM
2. The spaces inside the letters areas wide as the spaces between the letters.

SPACE INSIDE EQUALS SPACE BETWEEN

3. The black strokes are as wide as the white spaces. (In the extremely dense Black Letter style of the Middle Ages, in fact, the black strokes are wider than the white spaces.)

BLACK STROKE EQUALS OR EXCEEDS WHITE SPACE



Since Gothic letters bear such a strong family resemblance to each other, you should practice them in categories that will help you pay attention to the small differences between them.


Closed letters grow from O by continuing the second down-stroke past the lower guideline before ending with a square, or by starting the first stroke over the upper guideline. Neither one sucks out far from the body.

A single stroke distinguishes G from Q.
Open letters often differ from their closed cousins by a single stroke or carefully calibrated join or gap. Practice them in pairs and groups that let you highlight these differences.

Single width letters do not enclose space, but do maintain visual kinship using Gothic strokes and joins.

Exceptions do their best to express their identity while complying with Gothic structure.

Letters that are rounded or diagonal in other alphabets squeeze themselves into the hexagonal Gothic framework.
GOTHIC
SINGLE LINE

CLOSED

OPEN TOP or OPEN BOTTOM

Extenders should not: cross this line but may stop short of it.
OPEN SIDE

EXCEPTIONS

ALTERNATES


ONLINE GUIDELINESwww.margaretshepherd.com
SPACING ON THE PAGE
There are four simple rules to help you with spacing the Gothic letters, words, sentences, and lines.

1. The space between the letters is the width of a pen stroke.
Practice repeated uprights in simple letter bodies.

Extenders do not change the the spacing of the letter body.

Keep exceptions as close to the Gothic framework as you can, to prevent gaps and clumps.


Practice words with a mixture of standard letters and exceptions.
2. The space between words is the width of a letter body.

Practice short words, spacing them one letter body apart.
3. The space between sentences is equivalent to the width of the w.

Practice these simplified versions of 3 of the most common sentence capitals. You will learn alt the capitals in the next chapter.
4. The space between lines is the height of one letter body.


Keep extenders short to avoid tangles.
If, however, your text is very short or your letters are my ornate, you may increase the line pacing to help the reader's eye keep moving horizontally along the line of Gothic letters.


ARRANGING GOTHIC TEXT ON THE PAGE
There are some traditional ways to arrange a page of Gothic lettering. Keep the texture heavy and the margins straight, not "ragged." To make the lines of lettering come out equal, add strokes of ornamentation, enlarge the capitals, or use creative abbreviations. Don't stretch or squeeze the line length by changing the spaces inside & around the letters. Its better to preserve the same letter spacing from line to line, & even up the right-hand margin inventively.

Tagliente

1492 Dutch. Authors collection. Preceding page: Enlarged detail.
Gothic letters are a challenge for modern eyes to read. Make it easier by limiting length to 35-45 Characters. If you need to accommodate a longer text, consider a design that breaks the solid block of text into two slender columns.

Gutenberg-Bible
Although the Gothic letter looks appealing in traditional Gothic layouts, it doesn't have to be stuck in one historical period. Don't use it only for its antiquarian flavor; try it in modern layouts. The scribes of the Middle Ages arranged the page to enhance the Gothic letters' rich density, upward thrust, readability at small sizes, and harmony with the art and architecture around them. Today, you can use the same Gothic letters for similar purposes, in modern designs, if you choose appropriate texts.

A Gothic greeting printed white on black can be filled in with several primary colors to look like stained glass.

CHOOSING A TEXT
The Gothic alphabet offers the calligrapher many dramatic strengths and weaknesses. Historically, it speaks in formal, religious tones, which can detract from light lyrical texts, ironic quotations, or romantic poetry. Put it to use best for formal presentations, ceremonial occasions, logos, religious commentary, and scripture. Its abstract schematic structure also works well with aesthetics and philosophy.
In addition, the role of the Gothic alphabet in the 19th Century Gothic Revival all over northern Europe and England, where many of today's "traditional" Christmas customs originated, makes it a nearly inevitable choice for holiday greetings.




Margaret Fitzwilliam
VARIATIONS ON THE BASIC GOTHIC RULES
Now that you have disciplined your self to write Gothic litters according to the rules — precise, dense angular, uniform — you can tinker with the rules. Some of these variations will change the alphabet us a team.

LETTER ANGLE

The letters don't have to stand exactly upright. They can lean a few degrees without losing their Gothic look, if they all lean together (and don't lean too far!).


DENSITY

Originally useful because they could be so tightly packed, a crowd of Gothic letters can spread themselves a little farther apart. They can then each take up a little more space.


ANGULARITY
The Gothic hexagon can appear to cave in or bulge out, like a container being either deflated or pumped up.


THE BALANCE BETWEEN CLAN LOYALTY AND INDIVIDUAL IDENTITY

The letters of the Gothic alphabet, however, do not always change in unison. Like any clan, alphabets are made up of individuals whose loyalty to the clan must always be balanced with their need to express their uniqueness. Gothic is visually complex enough to accommodate many individual quirks as long as the underlying family relationships are not disrupted.

Some pairs of letters look so much like each other that they may be mistaken for each other unless you accentuate the few small features mere are that do distinguish between them.

Some letters in use today were not in the Gothic alphabet, or were familiar then informs that seem strange to us. You can modernize them for today's readers without losing the Gothic look.

Some letters contain awkward areas that will work better with non-standard strokes & joins. Usually the upside-down version of such a letter needs to have the same visual problem solved.

Z, s, and x, among others, are just hard to fit into the Gothic family. Use the forms that Gothic scribes devised to accommodate them, or you can try your own adaptations.

Gothic letters as a crowd can dress up their sober black suits many ways for special occasions, adding ornament to their bodies and limbs in a variety of old and new styles.

BEYOND GOTHIC
Emerging from the tightly packed rows of Gothic text, a few initial letters grew larger and dressed up in decorated costumes. These eye-catchers, each one unique, evolved into the star performers of the densely populated medieval page.









TWO KINDS OF GOTHIC CAPITALS:

1100-1500



 decorated the pages of most Gothic texts with a splash of color and gold. Whether written in just a few quick pen strokes by the monastic scribe, or drawn and filled in elaborately by a team of illuminators and gilders, a capital played an important role. t stood out from the block of regimented black text to emphasize a chapter break, tell a story for non-readers, portray the author of the scripture or the patron of the manuscript, frame a landscape, illustrate a catalog, or just add an extra layer of visual richness.

CHOOSE A KIND OP PEN AND A SIZE
Write, the pen-lettered capitals with the same pen you have been using for the Gothic text. A Gothic letter 5 nibs high looks best with a capital just 1 or 2 nibs taller; the extra width, distinctive doubling of strokes, and added decoration give the capital all the emphasis it needs. Don't let Gothic capitals get spindly or tower Over the text letters.

Gothic capitals this size and larger are usually outlined and filled in.
Start adding small, simple capitals to your Gothic texts without changing the pen size, the pen angle, the ink color, the guidelines, or the margins — later you can experiment with more variations.

Capitals do not have to be much taller than the text letter body itself.
Review the basic Gothic pen strokes (this page), plus a few simple geometric curves.

Basic Gothic pen strokes.

Additional geometric curves.
he pen-lettered Gothic capitals combine a distinctive shape (below) with several kinds of decorative strokes (next page).

Offset the corners so that the strokes just touch but don't meet or overlap.
The Gothic capital echoes the shape of the Roman capital of a thousand years before, and the Celtic of five hundred. One of the simplest changes that distinguishes the Gothic letter is the disconnected and offset join, which brings together a straight back and a round front at a corner where thy touch but do not overlap.

The round letters incorporate a straight stroke into their middle — partly structural, partly decorative. Make sure that these joins just touch.


The few letters that do not fit either category can still have similar joins, to give them Gothic structure.

The strokes that form s and x just touch in the middle.
PEN CAPITALS WITH ORNAMENT
While simple pen-littered capitals look Gothic enough to blend with a page of text, you can indulge in a rich selection of ornamental pen strokes to dress them up more. Though it may look like each individual letter is unique, in fact the ornamental strokes follow some simple visual rules. Practice the five kinds of strokes shown here, studying where they art positioned in the two main Gothic letter structures.

The simplest square can dress up many capitals. Float one in the middle of a round space, Float a cluster in a big space.

The same square, rendered as a parallelogram or curve, can just touch the outside edge of a vertical letter stroke.

With a little extra care, you can overlap the short stroke on the straight letter stroke.

Try the effect of one, two, or three repeated strokes. Aim for precision to give elegance. (If you use transparent ink or marker, you will be able to see the overlaps clearly so as to line up the strokes accurately.)

DOUBLED
Gothic capitals frequently include a vertical stroke, which can be doubled to give extra visual buzz.


TIED
Doubled vertical strokes can be tied together with hairlines made with a short side-to-side pen motion.


HAIRLINE
Make longer hairlines, with the pen at any angle, to triple the vertical stroke or close up an open letter.


DRAGGED
Some pens allow you to drag along thin ink line out of the main stroke using just the corner of the nib.

Use one corner of the nib to pull out ink from main stroke while it is still wet.

BANNER
A banner can attach onto a vertical hairline or float in the air.


GOTHIC PEN CAPITALS
STRAIGHT-BACK LETTERS

ROUND LETTERS

STRAIGHT LETTERS

INDIVIDUAL LETTERS

Add strokes to achieve the level of ornament you want. In general, assemble the letter from lift to right, from inside out, from think to thin, from structural to optional.

GOTHIC CAPITALS

German capitals 1529

CHOOSE A PEN AND A BRUSH
Huge or tiny, drawn capitals are outlined with a thin brush or a narrower pen than what you were writing the text with. In the Middle Ages the capitals were added later, not just with a different pen but by a different person, who specialized in the materials and techniques of illumination Without getting sidetracked too far from calligraphy yourself, you can learn just enough to design drawn capitals into your Gothic pages.
Until you art experienced at drawing the capitals, you should sketch them first on a separate sheet of paper, then transfer them or copy them by eye into the space you have provided in your design.

Thinner and thinner pen for smaller and smaller letters
The exact width of the pen, in relation to the height of the letter or the width of the stroke, is not so crucial here as in other alphabets. A nib about  the width of the drawn stroke is thin enough to focus your eye on the shape inside the outline instead of the pen stroke.

Choose nib width that is physically easy to handle and visually helps you and your readers to see the outlined stroke shape.
Too heavy
CHOOSE OUTLINE INK
Outline the letter with water-poof ink, which will not run when you fill it in. Although you can mimic the look of stained glass with a heavy black outline, it deadens the color and in fact makes the letter harder to read. And, a pale outline ink is easier to cover up with color.
Depending on your pen, outline the letter with a diluted gray tint of your practice ink, or change to sepia (brown) or ochre (tan). Some artists find a useful pale neutral beige in the wash water pot they have rinsed a lot of brushes in.


Ed Karr
CHOOSE INFILL PAINT
A medieval scribe's color choice was defined by what pigment was available as well as what color was customary. Red was traditionally used in the Bible to latter the spoken word of God, and in a Book of Hours for the calendar of saints' days (thus a "red letter day" came to mean a special day in a person's religious year). Illuminators learned that they could rely on red and blue paints not to fade or change color from exposure to light or chemical interaction with each other.
Calligraphers today sometimes try to make their designs look "olde" with faded brown ink, yellowed paper, and torn or scorched edges. This fake look is entertaining but inaccurate, as medieval scribes aimed for dense black ink on flawless pure white parchment.

Black outline overwhelms most colors.

Neutral outline does not detract from colors.

Fill the outline ... or cover it.


Gold appears on medieval pages in two forms: as gold powder in thin transparent liquid that is brushed or dotted on, or as thin sheets laid on top of slightly sticky letter shapes and burnished smooth to look like solid gold. Study old techniques, or improvise with modern materials.

Gold paint brushes on with a powdery matte surface...

...that can be burnished to a little more shine.

A base coat of sticky gesso is painted on first;

gold leaf adheres to it...

...and burnished to a brilliantly shiny surface.

ROMANCELTICRUNICGOTHICDRAWN
Drawn Gothic capitals pull together letter forms from classical Roman, Celtic, Runic, and pen Gothic capitals. Medieval scribes did not just copy these styles in outline, however, but created a special letter that is distinctive for its simplicity, symmetry, and framed interior space.
SIMPLE CAPITAL BALANCES BUSY TEXT
Reduced to the size of a bug, surrounded by a web of ornament, embedded in a dense thicket of text, a drawn capital letter still stands out clearly on the page. Its simplicity is based on its proportions, contours, color field, writing speed, and group identity.

Wide proportions let the capital contrast with the narrow text letter. A wide letter looks big without needing to be tall.

PROPORTIONMany letters can be drawn to be wider than their height.
Rounded contours distinguish the smooth capital form the prickly text letter.

CONTOURContrast the round capital wlth the pointed counterparts.
Hat color field is different from the fine grain of the text & the delicate mesh of the ornament.

COLOR FIELDEnhance the contrast between flat and textured.
A simple letter is quick to write. A simple letter can submerge its individuality into a group identity, allowing the scribe- to write whole words using drawn capitals. Unlike the pen-lettered prima donnas, they can work together in harmony.

SPEEDDrawn capitals frequently require fewer strokes than pen capitals.

INDIVIDUALITYWhole words in pen capitals look uneven and are difficult to read.

Drawn capitals work together visullay and are easier to read.
TWO KINDS OF SYMMETRY
The drawn capital is characterized by stroke symmetry, with each half of the outlined stroke a mirror image of the other. The vertical strokes are balanced along an imagined or penciled center line, spreading slightly at top and bottom. A few strokes are symmetrical horizontally.

STROKE SYMMETRY
In addition, drawn capitals have the quality of letter symmetry, their two halves balanced in mirror image of each other. As with strokes, letters can be symmetrical along a vertical or horizontal axis, or both. Look for near-symmetries and enhance them as well.

Four example of vertical symmetry

Four examples of horizontal symmetry

Four examples, of both vertical and horizontal symmetry
The brain is good at mirror images. Build up the symmetrical letters in balanced pairs of outline strokes to let your eye guide your hand. Work from left to right, from inside to outside.

THE VOCABLILARY OF ORNAMENT

Rubricated (red)

Texttured (with repeating elements)

Foliated (with leaves and flowers)

Inhabited (with people and animals)

Historiated (with an event or a story)

Gilded and filigreed (with gold paint or gold leaf)
AT LEAST SIX WAYS TO DECORATE A CAPITAL
he major virtue of the simple, symmetrical letter is that it invites decoration. Without demanding the repetitive labor of a decorated border, the space in, around, and within the letter can give the beginning scribe a chance for artistic expression.
THREE MAJOR KINDS OF FRAMED LETTER SPACE
Start with the area immediately outside the letter. Keep this ornament snug inside a real or imagined box, unless the letter's position at the edge of the text lets it extend into the margin.

Start simple.

Stay close in.

Don't let ornament.

Too much ornament swamps the letter simple.
OUTSIDE

Most drawn capitals can be configured to frame a round window. The decoration you put inside does not have to match what is I the corners.

Emphasize the letters function as a frame by writing the inside strokes first. The outside strokes are secondary.
INSIDE

Decoration within the letter stroke itself must contrast with what is inside and outside. Too much similarity of color, scale, motif, and tone will just confuse the eye and camouftage the shape.

Sometimes you can't have it all-decoration outside, inside, and within the letter may be just too much. Less ornament may in fact have more visual impact.
WITHIN


COTHIC DRAWN CAPITALS

The capitals below can be stretched fatter or taller without changing their basic architecture or family groups or underlying resemblances.
ROUND LETTERS

STRAIGHT-BACKED LETTERS

STRAIGHT LETTERS

DIAGONAL LETTERS

An alternate I. decorated six ways.
 MH

A selection form Capitals for Calligraphy, Margaret Shepherd
ARRANGING PEN C APITALS AND DRAWN CAPITALS ON THE GOTHIC PAGE
Pen capitals should not be written together in words. Each of them likes to show off, alone, in the spotlight, so keep them out of each other's way. Use them one at a time.

Drawn capitals may be written into words; but they lose their visual impact if overused. They are good team players if given uniforms and common goal.


Capitals by Tom Costello
Both kinds of capitals can be embedded in blocks of Gothic text if they stay inside the same guidelines. Vary the letters' width, color, and ornament to emphasize some letters over others. Write the pen capitals as you go; estimate (or measure) space to add in the drawn capitals later. Add black ornamental strokes now and thin red or tan filigree later to pen capitals; drawn capitals should be filled with red, blue, or gold & filigreed in red or tan.
You can let a drawn capital that occurs at the left margin grow taller than a line of text. Try starting a paragraph with a simple capital two lines high and about as wide.

1530 French. Birth of the Virgin mary. Allthors collection.

Write the text first, leaving space to fill in the capital later:

FULL CUT

HALF CUT

NO CUT
Most drawn capitals will fit snugly in a square space; a few will cut halfway into the corner of the text and also extend into the margin; I and I can occupy the margin without cutting into the text.
BEYOND GOTHIC
The ideas of the renaissance and the technology of the printing press combined in the 15th century to replace Gothic with a new kind of letter. Typographer and calligrapher, painter and sculptor, poet and architect, all were seeking to reinvigorate their art with fresh French and Italian forms. The book page, and the ideas spelled out there, took on new clarity.

From Capitals for calligraphy
Gothic capitals, once encrusted with ornament, were reduced to one or two colors for printing, and then further streamlined as scribes revived classical Roman capitals. Margins emerged clear of ornament. And the very texture of the page softened as Gothic's inter changeable letter bodies, sharp corners, mechanical joins, rigid spacing, and heavy serifs evolved into Bookhand's rounded letter bodies, arched corners, elegant joins, and graceful serifs.










400-800-1500-2000



ookhand flowered a the end of the Middle Ages, but its roots reach back almost to classical Rome. Charlemagne's scribes in 800 used 4th century Roman alphabets to copy classical and religious texts in the minor rebirth of learning that characterized his reign. Crowning himself Holy Roman Emperor, he decreed a "Roman" letter to give his written words the legitimacy of an earlier, purer regime.
   Scribes of the Italian Renaissance, in turn, revived Carolingian minuscule in the search for a text letter to go with Roman capitals, renaming it "Humanistica". Standardized by typographers as "lowercase Roman" and rediscovered by Victorian craftsmen as "Foundational," Bookhand calligraphy is the source of the everyday text letter for most of today's world.

CHOOSING A KIND OF PEN AND A SIZE
Since the invention of printing, Bookhand has made it self familiar to 20 generations of readers as the typeface of choice in printed books, newspapers, mail, magazines, and digital screens. It does not require large size to instruct the beginner, or to appeal to the critic, or to be legible to the average reader. The beauty of Bookhand is most accessible at medium size.

Bookhand, from 1522 to 2002
Choose a size large enough to highlight the proportions and joins that give this style its distinction, but still small enough to let you appreciate the abstract overall texture that the letters build up on the page, and to fit comfortably with your hand & pen.

Whatever height you choose, you can determine the weight of the letter. The body of the Bookhand letter is about 5 nibs stall, with extenders about 3 nibs up and down. The alphabet that is written just a little lighter will look more graceful and delicate without getting spindly; the alphabet that is written just a little heavier will gain power and permanence without getting chunky.

Stay within the limits of these moderate letter weights to give full expression to the transition that the curved strokes make from thick to thin. Too little weight weakens the dramatic contrast between thick & thin strokes; too much weight obliterates the thin strokes.

The Bookhand alphabet, at heart, is about moderation. Enjoy its balanced simplicities by practicing it at moderate height and weight, using a comfortable calligraphy pen.

BASIC STROKES
Bookhand is based on simple geometric lines and curves. Practice separate strokes before joining them to make letters.
The straight stroke just touches the guidelines at its corner.

The circle is written in 2 separate strokes, symmetrical along a center line that is tilted back 20°. The inside shape is an oval; the outside shape is a circle.

The arch is virtually unique to Bookhand, as well as its inverted form, the swag. It must be carefully visualized to be correctly written. Watch the white space taking shape inside the black stroke; make this interior white shape—not the exterior black contour—symmetrical.

Change the pen angle to 45° for the occasional diagonal and for the midstroke of s at medium and large letter height, where it makes a difference.

The s curve is mainly diagonal with a slight bend at the ends.


There are four ways to connect the basic Bookhand strokes.
Two curves, or curve and a straight stroke, can touch each other at their thinnest points.

A curve and a straight stroke can meet at the curves flat end.

A curve and a vertical stroke can overlap at the curve's flat end.

A few one-of-a-kind strokes can overlap in unique ways.

Diagonal strokes can also join by overlapping.

A vertical and a horizontal stroke can cross at a right angle, or two diagonals at 60°.

BOOKHAND LETTER FAMILIES
Made from half a dozen simple geometric strokes that join in four ways, Bookhand letters are easy to group into families based on some characteristic like width or a common shape. Extra similarities within families may pair some letters in special relationships that define-their identity. The main groups are based on letter width.
WIDTH CATEGORIES
The O that is the basic unit of measurement fills a square Letters that include either the left or right stroke of an O will also fill a square.

Letters based on the arch stroke will be about ¾ the width of their height.

A few exceptions are about half the width of their height.

The narrowest letters are as wide as one pen stroke.

Several letters are actually wider than their height, by about one pen stroke.

IDENTICAL TWINS AND PROBLEM CHILDREN IN LETTER FAMILIES
Certain letters within letter families have an identical twin whose existence may not be obvious until you notice that one of them is standing upside down. (Some may dress a little unlike each other.) Match up these invertible twins, and let them solve their structural problems in tandem.

There is a special cluster of structural problems in Bookhand where a curved stroke joins a straight stroke. While the sharp point of the curve touches the straight stroke, the flat end of the same curve can connect in one of several different joins. Whichever you choose, you must apply it uniformly to both letter twins & whole letter families.
Decisions like these, which you can make in advance for an entire category, will help you write Bookhand with coherent style, visual rhythm, and your own personal imprint.

BOOKHAND

BOOKHAND

SERIFS
A serif finishes off the stroke ends with a small sideways motion that serves many purposes. It covers the central nib split at the beginning of the stroke and distributes the accumulated ink at the end; it rounds off the corners of square spaces within and between letters; it expresses the under lying motion of the pen form stroke to stroke; and it gives the 26 individual letters a unified style.

A serif motion closes up this gap.

A serif motion cleans this up.

As the pen pulls a stroke, ink particles, lint, and paper fibers will accumulate underneath. An exit serif spreads it out.

WITHOUT SERIFS

WITH SERIFS
WHERE TO PUT SERIFS ON LETTERS
Serifs belong on thick strokes that do not already meet or overlap another stroke. But they do not belong on the thin unattached end of a curve, and are optional on the thick end of a curve.
As a beginner, your task will be to prevent your natural inclination—to begin and end every stroke with serifs-from creating a bristly little tangle at every corner join.

Where to put serifs

Where not to put serifs
SERIF SIZE
Keep your Bookhand serif small at first, so as not to slow down or disrupt either your rhythm of writing or your reader's rhythm of reading.
The curve at the bottom and top of your letter should just touch the guidelines or, in larger sizes, overlap them slightly.

Visualize a center line.Curve stroke to intersect guideline and center line.Serif is made of small curve plus hairline.

BASIC BOOKHANO WITH SERIF
Bookhand serifs can take hundreds of slightly different shapes, from a thin hairline to a formal construction. As you master the basics, observe and evaluate other scribes serifs.

HAIRLINECURVESLABOFFSET SLABCONSTRUCTED
SPACING
Bookhand letter spacing is based on the area between the right stroke of one letter and the left stroke of the next. Visualize an ant farm that holds the same bucket of sand no matter what shape container supports it. The letter edges that form these spaces can be classified as straight upright and diagonal, round closed, and complex open.

The basic unit of spacing is the rectangle made by 2 straight strokes, about half the width of its height. For diagonals, they eye reconfigures this into a triangle of equivalent area.

The spaces between round closed strokes from crescents, hour glasses, and concave triangles that cover the same amount of white space as the standard rectangle.

The space formed by complex open strokes will be simpler to estimate if you squint a little to permit your eye to determine the letter's edge without trying to analyze it.

VARIABLE LETTER SPACING

The calligrapher can tighten or loosen the spacing of letters and words. This will let you "justify" the margins by shortening or lengthening the line. As a beginner, you will do best to letter each line first in rough draft, judge whether to squeeze or stretch the spacing, and then copy it over. You will probably start by making just a few adjustments to the spaces between words; then try lots of small adjustments to the spaces between letters' (left). Don't even think of trying to stretch or squeeze the letters themselves; the eye will detect it and reject it right away as distortion. Hyphenate some words, change line length, or simply switch to a slightly smaller letter with a smaller pen.

Broad spacing

Tight spacing

Cramped spacing

Try these ways to control the line length when letter spacing doesn't work.

Hyphenate.Change line length.Chosse smaller letter and pen size.
TRADITIONAL OR CONTEMPORARY BOOKHAND PAGE DESION
You can make Bookhand letters look historically accurate on the page by using traditional rules: wide letters, thin serifs, generous spacing. A space the height of 2 letter bodies should separate the lines. Aim for between 3 and 9 words per line. The block of text should be narrower than its height, with proportions of about 2 to 3. The top margin should be smaller than the bottom. Center the text side-to-side or, to evoke the open book page, make the left margin 2/3 the width of the right margin.

Didymus Alexandrinus. Courtesy Pierpont Morgan Library (see enlarged detail, next page).

Bookhand letters, however, also lend themselves to lively and original designs. Your own visual judgment as you advance will help you expand or challenge traditional rules: try dramatic serifs, tight spacing, uneven guidelines, many or few words per line, ragged margins, or horizontal proportions.


CHOOSING A BOOKHAND TEXT
Bookhand lends simple elegance to calligraphy designs where the reader should be able to understand the text without effort. It is pleasant to read in long passages, offering a lovely, subtle texture on the page. It expresses quotations of lucid rationality, prose, poetry, insightful meditation, and practical philosophy. It tones down the energy of humor and lightens the weight of pomp. Almost the only occasion it does not enhance is the text of a ceremonial proclamation; it just isn't dressy enough to deliver a sermon or award a diploma.
Think of Bookhand as a clarifier, sharpening the focus rather than adding a layer of decoration. Or imagine it as vanilla, which brings out the flavors of many different ingredients and appeals to many plates.
Transparent, however, is not the same as invisible, and vanilla is still a flavor. Bookhand is simple, subtle, and familiar, but it is not neutral. Certain authors, nations, and times, in fact, are strongly identified with this letter for its special associations. The words of 20th-century American poet e e cummings, for instance, belong in Bookhand for its equivalence to the lowercase Roman type he used without conventional capitalization. And American authors in general benefit from Bookhand; those of the 18th and early 19th centuries, in particular, deserve a letter that reflects their search for genuine American forms of political and artistic expression. If you enjoy this dimension of the Bookhand style, read American authors like Ralph Waldo Emerson, Henry David Thoreau, Thomas Jefferson, Walt Whitman, and Emily Dickinson for texts.




PUSHING THE EDGE
Because Bookhand is so easy to read, it is a good alphabet to use when you want to experiment with untraditional layout. If you plan lines of lettering that will tilt, curve, or turn upside-down, you can help your readers understand the words by using the most familiar alphabet.
ook for strong, simple images that can be brought to life by arranging letters on a page.

Natural objects can inspire calligraphic designs.

BOOKHAND COEXISTS WITH ROMAN & ITALIC
Bookhand uses the Roman letters (this page-this page) to capitalize words. Except for chapter openers, the capitals should be taller than the letter body but shorter than the extenders; they should be lettered with the same pen; they should start and end with the same serif.

Bookhand often brings along its sibling. Italic, who speaks up in a contrasting visual voice to change meaning or add emphasis. Born in the early Renaissance as manuscript letters, but then adopted and brought up by the printing press, Bookhand and Italic share many family traits: size, weight, line ratio, lowercase "small letter" status, even a tolerance for monoline expression. They cooperate visually when they appear together on the same page.

Different bodies, different posture.
Handlettered or typeset, however, Italic has a distinct identity of its own. While each Bookhand letter is constructed of separate pen strokes, an Italic letter, or even several letters, can be completed with one single, uninterrupted stroke of the pen. While Bookhand letters are based on half a dozen basic shapes, all but 5 of the Italic letters are built on just one basic shape. And while Bookhand is almost always vertical. Italic is almost always slanted.
Like most siblings, Bookhand and Italic will coexist most happily if you don't blur who they are. Keep them sharply distinct from each other, and put them to work doing what they do best Bookhand looks better the more carefully you write it; Italic blossoms when you relax and write more casually.
Bookhand and Italic are two different forms; fraternal twins, not identical twins.









1500 - 2000



talic letters emerged in the early years of the Renaissance and continue to be written today. This style belonged not only to the monastic scribe and the professional copyist, but also to the law clerk, the scientist, the man of letters, the artist, the scholar, and the politician. Petrarch and Michelangelo had exemplary handwriting Leonardo da Vinci, master of so many professions, could write backward and forward, with either hand.
   Italic letters got their name from an Italy that was becoming the dominant cultural force after the Middle Ages. Model letters by Italian writing masters spread throughout literate Europe and the world in private correspondence, professionally copied edicts, and the new medium of paper and the printing press.
   The visual beauty of Italic, and its capacity to express both public and private language, helped the script survive the 18th and 19th centuries, when flexible-pen French handwriting and pointed-pen Copperplate engraving pushed Italic out of fashion. The Arts and Crafts Movement of late Victorian England and the American calligraphy revival in the-1970's brought back Italic virtually unchanged from Renaissance alphabets.
   People who pick up a pen or marker today—and tomorrow— will find that Italic beautifies their everyday handwriting while it introduces them to the calligrapher's art.

CHOOSE A LETTER SIZE
Practice Italic small at first, around 1 cm (⅜"). Small letters offer 3 advantages:

At this size you will probably have to lift up the pen between every stroke.
The Italic letter is shaped by small hand motions, not large arm motions. Study the large letters given here, but practice them at small or medium size.

Depending on your pen, at this height you may still have to pull e with 2 separate strokes.
Most Italic letters, and some groups of letters, are written in one stroke without lifting the pen. the smaller the letter, the fewer the lifts. A larger letter makes you interrupt the line between nearly every stroke.

Letters are illustrated at this size to show detail...
Although calligraphers have used italic many ways at many sizes, this alphabet still expresses itself best at a size that fits the printed page and the handwritten note. 500 years of familiarity in this context means that Italic will speak most clearly to the reader at a moderate, not monumental, scale.

...but you should practice at this size when you begin.
AVOID EXTREMES OF WEIGHT
Italic is sensitive about its weight. Even a bit too much obliterates the key italic curve where it merges with the upright, while too little makes it visually weak.

LINE CONTRAST
The contrast between thick and thin will be different for different pens. A sharp dip pen writes a letter with high contrast but it may also make trouble by digging into the paper surface. A blunt fountain pen or marker write a letter with low contrast between thick and thin, but it glides over the paper without a snag. You balance these advantages & disadvantages with the kind of pen you choose. Italic letters look good both ways—written with a sharp pen for high contrast or with a blunt pen for low contrast. They even look good written without a calligraphy pen for no contrast If you want to, or have to, you can practice and write a perfectly adequate Italic script with the unvarying monoline of a ballpoint, pencil, or marker.

Will WeakenA nib narrower than about 1/8 the letter height this join.A mb wider than about 1/5 the letter height will thicken this join.
WARMUP
Write at least two lines of loops before practice.

Aim for rhythm at first, not precision.


Practia two distinct zigzags. The pyramid is symmetrical; the sawtooth has one upright stroke and one slanted stroke. Both shapes are used to form the Italic letters.

To diagnose problems, see this page.


PEN ANGLE
Italic offers a little leeway in choice of pen angle, but not much. Take extra time to make the zigzag right; adjust the pen angle to produce a moderate but clear contrast between the thin and the thick strokes.

Range of best Italic pen angle.

Pen angle less than 30° is too flat.Pen angle more than 45° is too steepPen angle less than 30° is too flat.Pen angle more than 45° is too steep.
SPACING
Space the separate straight strokes evenly.

Practice at a speed of 1-2 strokes per second.

Breathe after 4-6 strokes. Lift and reposition hand after 5-10 strokes.
LETTER BODY BASICS
Italic letter bodies are about 5 nibs tall the most common stroke, downstrokes are about 3 nibs apart


Visualize objects in the real world that have proportions of 3 to 5: a face, a torso, a flower pot, a window, a book page, a soup can, even the fingers of a human hand.


After you learn to visualize a 3 to 5 ratio, try narrower or wider spacing.
SLANT
In most versions of Italic, the vertical strokes lean slightly away from true vertical by about 5°. While this slant is customary with Italic, it is by no means universal or essential Many other styles can slant; Italic can be upright. It just usually isn't.


Visualize an Italic Slant various ways: on a clock face, or a protracter, or measured in pen nibs.


Italic usually leans about ½ pen width for every 5 nibs of vertical height.



TAGLIENTE

ARRIGHI
DIFFERENT SLANTS
Once you have mastered the basics, you can try varying the Italic slant from 10° backward to 30° forward.

EXTENDERS
italic is mainly built on five vertical downstrokes of four different heights, spanning 1, 1 ¼ 2, and 3 guidelines. The part that goes beyond the single guideline is the extender:

Calligraphers can design their own personal Italic, and change it whenever they like. Shown here are the last two lines of an annual Christmas sonnet. Over the years, the artist has chosen various sizes, pen weights, pen angles, line contrasts, proportions, slant, and extender height.Calligrapher: Margaret fitzwilliam    Poet: Robert Fitzwilliam

The outlined strokes are each used in only one letter, T and f, which can be practiced later.

Practice slanted verticals in these 3 most useful heights.Practice less common extenders.
VARIABLE LINE SPACING



Use the guidelines on this page right side up for single-spaced lines......or turn them upside-down for double-spaced lines and large letter size.
FOUR DIAGONALS
As the pen travels diagonally up from the end of one stroke to the beginning of the next, it leaves behind it on the page one of these four distinctive marks. Two of them form the transition from one letter to the next; the other two connect the straight strokes together to form the letter it self. All these strokes have counterparts that have been rotated 180°, and occur at the top of the straight stroke. Turn the page upside-down to observe the kinship between stroke beginnings and stroke ending.


SERIF

JOINStop. Change direction. Do not lift the pen. Do not change the pen angle.
FROM ONE LETTER TO THE NEXT
Lift the pen off the paper at the end of the stroke with a little sideways curve and upward motion. Put the pen back down onto the paper at the top of the next stroke with the same motion. This curve and thin line is the serif. It occurs in other alphabets, too.

Leave the pen touching the paper at the end of the stroke and go diagonally up to start the next stroke without curving the corner or lifting the pen. This line is the letter join. Italic is the only alphabet style that routinely connects letters this way.

The two curves below are the key to the italic style. No other alphabet has them. Although they can be diagrammed with lines and circles, they are so subtle and complex that you may find it easier to visualize them using the structure of your body.



LEAN ON YOUR LEFT *ELBOW AND LOOK IN A MIRROR
LOOK AT THE RIGHT* SIDE OF YOUR FACE IN A MIRROR


*Reverse these directions if you are looking at someone else.


The n curve leans away from the straight stroke the way your spine leans away from the straight backrest of the chair, then makes a rounded corner at your left shoulder, and then goes straight down to your elbow.
The u curve starts straight down-from your left temple, turns the rounded corner of your chin, then curves back up to your right ear, and drops straight down along the main tendons of your neck.



"B" curve

"A" curve
WITH-IN THE LETTER ITSELF
At the bottom of the down stroke, leave the pen on the paper. Pause, reverse direction, and go back up, springing smoothly away from the stem at its midpoint. Round the upper corner at about one pen width, leaving a concave white triangle.

Start the down stroke, but round it by one pen width, leaving a concave white triangle at the corner. Visualize the next downstroke so that your diagonal upstroke can merge with it at its midpoint and coincide exactly with it at its top.

Test the shape of your curves by turning them upside-down.
PUSH
In addition to the left-to-right diagonals shown on the preceding two pages, italic down strokes can also be connected by right-to-left horizontal strokes. With a medium-size pen and smooth paper, you can push the horizontal strokes from right to left. This forms the letters in the right order.

A right-to-left pushed stroke may encounter some problems:

The paper may snag if the surface is soft, the pen is too sharp, or the weather is humid. Change to harder paper or a blunter pen.
The ink may not continue to flow, especially in dry weather. Change to a narrower pen or a marker for practice and everyday projects.
The pushed motion may feel awkward. Change how you hold the pen. Move your entire arm. Sit differently. Practice more. Use a smaller pen and smoother paper. Just don't give up;*a flowing and organic italic script demands that you learn at first by pushing and pulling the strokes without many lifts. If you start to pull every stroke, you won't understand the letter's structure.


A corner of the nib can catch and then spring loose, and splatter ink around it.

Upstroke pushes nib slit together, reducing ink flow.
* If you've given up:
PULL (OPTIONAL)
If the pushed horizontals still give you trouble or if your design requires a large pen, or a sharp nib, or rough paper, you may have to lift the pen after each downstroke in order to pull every horizontal stroke. While this deconstructed letter will look correct, this technique slows down your writings & disrupts the natural motion of the pen. Avoid it at first.


The pushed horizontal stroke does two jobs in the Italic alphabet: it closes a letter body and it swashes an extender (next page). In closing a letter body, it rounds off the thin edge of one vertical stroke and connects squarely with the flat end of the other. This pushed horizontal stroke and the curved diagonal upstroke on this page are the basic key to the italic alphabet.

The extender stroke of b is shown shorter than usual, to emphasize its otherwise identical structure to an inverted a.

Visualize rounding off from an angular framework.The left edge of the curved diagonal upstroke touches the exact midpoint of the vertical.
Watch this white triangle take shape.


Practice this overly angular letter structure to master the pen's path. Then round the sharp corners as shown below.

Practice these two fundamental letter bodies until they feel comfortable and look graceful.
HORIZONTAL BEGINNINGS AND ENDINGS
Swashes at the top and bottom of extenders follow the same rectangular structure as the horizontal strokes that connect verticals in letter bodies. It doesn't matter where these horizontal strokes occur in the letter structure: letter strokes, cross strokes, and swashes all look basically alike.

STANDARD PUSH
In Italic handwriting, almost all of these horizontal strokes are  from right to left, forming whole letters and groups of letters without lifting the pen.
OPTIONAL PULL
In Italic lettering almost all of these horizontal strokes are  from left to right in a series of separate pen motions, with the pen lifted between each stroke and the next.

Guidelines are realigned here to illustrate the horizontal stroke as letter stroke, cross stroke, and swash—all basically the same stroke.


Beginners often curl up this stroke. That is a mistake; it is nearly straight.
Letters made of a miscellaneous group of specialized strokes deviate from the framework of italic while still harmonizing with it and with each other. They all relate to the underlying structure of the 3-by-5 italic rectangle, connecting its corners and midpoints.
These straight diagonals combine downstrokes and up-strokes to form whole letters.

Leaning more; these two diagonals are each pulled in a separate motion.

Filling the slanted rectangle with one stroke*, the o curve ends up where it started out.

S requires carefully rounded corners and a very slightly curved diagonal downstroke.

ITALIC

Small black letters show only those minimal swashes that are useful for everyday connected informal handwriting

JOINING SOME ITALIC LETTERS WITH OTHERS
Italic is the only broad-edge Western alphabet that connect the letters, letting the pen-line flow across the page without lifting between every letter. Not all the letters, however, connect with all the others; study the categories shown here and the chart on this page to make the connections that promote both speed and rhythm.
COME FROM
About half the letters end at the lower right corner of the italic rectangle. You can come from these letters if you can go to others.

you can also come from a few letters that end at the upper right corner of the italic rectangle with a cross stroke or diagonal.

GO TO
A second major kind of letter starts at the upper left corner of the italic rectangle you can go to these letters if you come from others.

you can also go to letters that start with an unswashed extender on the letter's left edge.

THE LETTER JOIN
As you approach the end of a come from letter, look ahead. If the next letter is a go to letter, keep your pen on the paper to make the thin diagonal upstroke (or occasional cross stroke) that connects it to the next letter. If the next letter is not a go to letter, you cannot make a letter join without awkwardness and the risk of illegibility. End with a serif, lift your pen, and put it down at the beginning of the next letter.



All the remaining letters should be written one at a time, unconnected, or connected only in special circumstances, using great care to avoid making them look like some other letter.
COME FROM

THE MOST USEFUL CONNECTIONS THAT COME FROM AND GO TO SOME DOZEN ITALIC LETTERS
This chart shows the most useful italic connections that come from one letter and go to the next When you begin italic, start with the connections shown in the upper left corner of the chart, and work carefully across a few columns, repeating each letter pair until the connection is comfortable to your hand and clear to your eye. Keep trying new pairs as you master the lower right of the chart, adding your favorites to your daily handwriting. This can be a leisurely process that you return to occasionally ever many weeks and years, at various levels of expertise.

LUCKY AND UNLUCKY CONNECTIONS
In addition to the natural connections you can make by not lifting the pen, some italic letters connect with each other when the ends of strokes happen to meet, touch, or overlap. As your calligraphy gets more precise, particularly if you try larger, slower, more formal lettering in separate pulled strokes, you should watch for letter pairs with the potential for elegant connections and enhance them.

K joins W with a lucky connection.

The path of the pen is slightly different from the track it leaves on the paper.
you should also watch for pairs with the potential for trouble, and disarm them. These, undesirable, connections plague the readability of several common letter pairs and reach beyond the guidelines to tangle extenders and swashes.


Fix any tangled extenders on your italic page with one of the following techniques:

BASIC ITALIC EVERY DAY
This fifteenth-century alphabet, brought back into fashion in the twentieth-century calligraphy revival, is so popular now that when people say "calligraphy" they usually have italic in mind. Whether formally lettered or informally handwritten, italic expresses all kinds of texts and appeals to all kinds of readers.



VARIATIONS ON BASIC ITALIC
If letters are the clothing of words, you can't go wrong with italic, the little black dress of your calligraphy wardrobe. Basic italic goes everywhere, from the office to the opera house. You can dress it up or down, transforming the whole outfit with the simplest change of accessories and attitudes.


Jazz it up with a mix of size, slant, and placement.

Try sharp shoulders and straight posture, or soft shoulders and a shimmy.

You can outline white Italic with a scroll pen or tandem pencils; or you can letter it with white ink on, or digitally drop it out of, a black background.
THE ULTIMATE ITALIC ACCESSORY IS A VIRTUAL SCARF
you can modify your basic italic outfit a little further by lengthening any swash that is already part of the letter or adding a swash to any letter where it is optional. Visualize your swash as a long silk scarf, and explore it with pen on papers as if it really could crisscross, drape, and float.








1500-2000



TALIC CAPITALS FIT IN TO THE HANDLETTERED MANUSCRIPT, OR THE PRINTED BOOK, OR THE HANDWRITTEN PERSONAL LETTER. CREATED IN THE RENAISSANE, ITALIC CAPITALS RE-EMERGED AS A DISTINCT NEW STYLE, WELL SUITED TO THE CASUAL ELEGANCE OF THE 20TH CENTURY CALLIGRAPHY REVIVAL.
   SWASHES, WHICH GROW NATURALLY FROM ITALIC CAPITALS, CAN TAKE ON A SEPARATE LIFE OF THEIR OWN.

CHOOSE A KIND OF PEN AND A SIZE
When you choose a pen for swash practice, size is not as important as ease of use. Swashes should be pushed and pulled, back and forth in one continuous motion, without lifting the pen. In the beginning a marker of medium size will facilitate these large, smooth, rhythmic arm motions.

If you have been practicing the Italic small letters (this page-this page), or if you already have a calligraphy pen, try out this zigzag to see if your materials have any problems with me pushed strokes; if they snag or dry up, you will need to choose a different pen or different paper.

Use a ballpoint, monoline marker, or pencil to practice swash motions without friction or snags.
LETTER WEIGHT
Some capitals and swashes are formed with single pen strokes. A narrow pen makes a light & elegant line; a wide pen makes a heavy and dramatic line. A thin stroke is harder to control physically because the pen digs into the paper if you lean on it; a thick stroke is harder to control visually because the strokes crowd each other.

Robert Boyajian
OTHER KINDS OF PENS
A split stroke reinforces the visual energy of the stroke.

Tagliente
PEN TEAMWORK
Some swashes just naturally create a doubled effect. You can repeat a line with strictly parallel strokes or intentionally unparallel strokes, Try pairs, trios, and bundles that add up to a whole letter. Combine lines of different weights and different ink colors.

Robert Boyajian
BASIC ITALIC CAPITALS
Italic capitals are about 7 nibs high. They should always be shorter than the extenders of the small letters they accompany. If written as all capitals, without small letters, they should, be the same height as each other.

If you shorten the extenders, you should make the capital smaller, too. It can shrink down to nearly the height of the letter body.

Italic capitals are based on the shapes of the classical Roman capitals (this page -this page).

Position the pen at a steep 4-5° angle and keep it there for every letter. This gives vertical and horizontal strokes approximately the same weight.

Make the wide letters narrower and the narrow letters wider, until all the letters are about 3/4 the width of their height. M and W will be slightly wider. Add strokes to broaden I.

Slant the capitals about 5°, matching the Italic small letters they accompany.

For a simple decorative effect without complicating the letter structure, dislocate the joins by shortening some strokes and lengthening others. Choose from 5 alternatives:

BASIC ITALIC CAPITALS — OVERLAPPED JOINS

ALTERNATIVE JOINS — VERTICAL POINT

HORIZONTAL POINT

DOUBLE POINT ROUNDED POINT

ITALIC LETTERS

SWASHES
Swashes don't have to stay attached to letters. They can stand alone or repeat to make borders. The basic spiral extends into a helix, and can curl clockwise or counter-clockwise.

The counter-clockwise spiral starts with the first stroke of the letter O, a downstroke. The upstroke continues, curving inward short of the top guideline for the spiral, or heading up almost straight to turn a tight curve down for the helix.

The clockwise spiral starts with the second stroke of the latter O, another downstroke. The upstroke continues, curving inward short of the lower guideline for the spiral. or heading down almost straight to turn a tight curve up for the helix


The horizontal zigzag you may have made as a beginner can blossom into a swash if you give it a slight S, curve to accommodate its change in direction. Keep its center stiff & springy and let its loops express a rhythmic slowing down and speeding up as it curves around each corner.


Try slight variations of height, spacing scale, and pen size with each repetitwe swash.

If spacing gives you problems, make tic marks or use guidelines.
LETTER SWASHES
Like any favorite accessory, the Italic swash is supremely versatile. Pin a small swash to the letter. Let a short or medium swash extend from the letter Attach a long swash to a corner or end of the latter. Or let a swash of any length float nearby, detached from but still visually part of the letter, word, or line.


Swashes can grow from and add on to the extenders of the Italic small letters, in much the same way they emerge from the Italic capitals, The same swash may be essential for a letter's identity, customary for its balance, or just for fun.

ITALIC SWASH CAPITALS

ITALIC SWASH SMALL LETTERS

SWASH DESIGN
It's easy to write swashes on Italic letters that wow the reader The problem is to stop! and not overdo it Each additional swash increases the risk of cluttering the page, and dilutes the visual strength of the swashes that are already there. So, be cautious and choosy when you include swashes in your design.

In the beginning you may be tempted to put swashes in many ingenious places. Swashes sometimes seem to yearn to connect two extenders or fill out the line. It's fun at first to indulge their playfulness.
After the novelty wears off, you should exercise restraint. Swashes look better at the top and bottom of a text rather than inside it, and in pairs or threes that balance each other's visual motion.
As you can see from the comparisons here, swashes on a page are like jewels on a person; it is better to have a big gem carefully placed than a lot of little ones dotted around.
DESIGNING WITH ITALIC CAPITALS
Unswashed or swashed, the Italic capital appears in a wide rang, of sizes, shapes, and surroundings. It weaves a monogram, shapes a logo, dresses up a word; it capitalizes the Italic small letters as a team member or a star; it italicizes a passage within a text of vertical letters; it blends with other Italic capitals to render short quotations.

SWASH EVERY SCRIPT
The swash is a scarf that you can add to any outfit, not just to the Italic little black dress. Try on a swash with every alphabet in this book, draping it differently to harmonize with each calligraphic style. Formal Roman swashes bend just slightly near the end. Celtic swashes tie into decorative knots. Gothic swashes look frozen into stiffly starched angles. Bookhand swashes curve and float but don't flutter.


...or simply borrow whole costumes, as the alphabet did with Arabic numerals.
BEYOND ALPHABET SWASHES
you can also give your alphabets an exotic touch with swashes from a foreign script...










1100-1600



Beginning with the Crusades & growing for 500 years, the powerful new religious force of Islam changed the visual art of Europe. Scribes were confronted with different new ways to count, write, decorate, and punctuate. Numerals and a zero from Sanscrit replaced Roman I, V, and X. Paper from Samarkand supplanted parchment. Swashes from Arabic script softened the angles of Gothic.
   Scribes also continued tailoring their own scripts to the realities of everyday copying. Many common words, already shortened down to 2 letters, were further stylized into symbols like & and R. Dozens of little marks indicating pauses, abbreviations, & special phrasing have been standardized into today's punctuation marks.

NUMERALS
Most numerals accompany letters, changing pen weight, height, and angle to match. Numerals come in two versions, capital or small. The forms are nearly identical, differing mainly in their placement between the guidelines. Basic numerals are half as wide as their height. Their top and bottom halves are just slightly unequal.

"CAPITAL" NUMERALS
Top and bottom strokes do not actually meet.
One of the virtues of the original Arabic numerals was the individuality of each one, so that no character could be misread for another, even reversed or upside-down. European typographers, however, surpressed the uniqueness of each character in order to make them all look, like they belonged with each other. You can emphasize the numerals and parts and strokes that resemble each other to make them work as a team without completely obliterating the individuality that makes them legible.

Numerals that accompany small letters extend, like them, beyond the guidelines with ascenders and descenders of similar height. As a general rule, and except for 1 and 0, the even numbers go up and the odd numbers go dawn.

"EXTENDER" NUMERALS
* Note that the custom of crossing the 7 has been garbled in transmission from Europe to America. This cross stroke serves to distinguish 7 from 1 which resemble each other only if you write 1 as they do over there, with a strong upstroke. If you don't make the strong upstroke on 1, you don't need the cross stroke on 7.

You may also prefer an alternate 3 to prevent the misreading of similarly written figures 3 and 5.

PUNCTUATION
Punctuation marks, like numerals, can modify their height, weight, pen angle, and slant to harmonize with the alphabets they punctuate. The basic forms are shown for you to adapt to each alphabet you learn.

Practice curved and angular dots, quotation marks, and commas.

Leaning strokes should be in the middle range between maximum and minimum weight.

If you write the quotation marks correctly, you will discover that you need two kinds—one shaped like 6 for the beginning & another shaped like 9 for the end.
The slash and backslash should not be mitten with minimum & maximum line weight. Adjust your pen angle to make lines of moderate line weights.
Check the author—s text to make sure you have not added or omitted punctuation.

The hyphen, minus, dash, and underscore all begin and end with either a serif or a very slight curve. You may need a penciled guideline to help place the underscore.

The exclamation point can lean ahead of the slant of the letters themselves, to create extra visual emphasis, while the question mark remains balanced upright.

LIGATURES & SYMBOLS
Many familiar characters that supplement the alphabet are assembled from 2 or 3 letters. The LEGO® blocks of the calligrapher's toy chest, ligatures appear as decorative joins, mathematical and musical notations, abbreviations, archaic symbols, borrowed emblems, and invented devices:
U is superimposed on S.
C is short for centi-, a prefix that means hundred.

In general, a slash implies a ratio or a unit of measurement.
L stands for livre, an imported term for the British pound.
# is an, abstraction of L or American pound weight. Visualize the loop of P, a slash, and a closed C in %.

Circled initials claim ownership of intellectual property or give virtual location.

Use a pen smaller than the pen you use to write the text letter.

AND
The ampersand is special; it has been accepted as part of a standard alphabet font & yet has no single standard form. It begin as medieval scribes merged the letters of et, Latin for and, into a single character. Now it is written in dozens of forms, from a simple "+" to complex figures that nearly obscure the original E & T.

ROMAN NUMERALS


NUMERALS FOR A CLOCK FACE

NUMERALS FOR A FORMAL YEAR DATE
MODERN NUMERALS

ROMAN

CELTIC

GOTHIC

ITALIC CAPITALS
BOOKHANDUse either set of Italic numerals without slant.

ITALIC
ZODIAC SIGNS

ARIES
THE RAMMarch 21-April 19

TAURUS
THE BULLApril 20-MAY 20

GEMINI
THE TWINSMay 21-June 21

CANCER
THE CRABJune 22-July 22

LEO
THE LIONJuly 23-August 22

VIRGO
THE VIRGINAugust 23-September 22

LIBRA
THE BALANCESeptember 23-October 23

SCORPLO
THE SCORPIONOctober 24-November 21

SAGITTARIUS
THE ARCHERNovember 22-December 21

CAPRICORN
THE GOATDecember 22-January 19

AQUARIUS
THE WATER BEARERJanuary 20-February 18

PISCES
THE FISHESFebruary 19-March 18

NUMERALS IN USE
Many practical lettering projects require numerals to tell where and when.

Photo by Jasper Friend

Robert Boyajian
LOCATION & DESTINATION
Numerals identify clearly where something is—a table number on a table or a street number on a house—or where it is headed—an address on an envelope.
You should choose a letter style for addressing that will be easy for the postal service to read in the size that fits on the envelope. Restrict swashes and unusual alphabets to the person's name & the edges of the envelope to prevent misdelivery and delay. The letter style and ink color should harmonize with the stamp and the paper color.




The U.S. Postal Service prefers the return address here...

...but this location keeps the front of the envelope uncluttered.
Whether your envelope holds a party invitation, a holiday greeting, a birthday check, or a love note, you can choose an alphabet style and numerals that reinforce your massage. Calligraphy can express your personality on whatever you send in the mail.

Lisa Richards

Rober Boyajian

Lisa RIchards

Jean Wilson

Lisa Richards








TIME PAST AND TO BE

Numerals describe when an event already happened—a monument or plaque—or when it will happen—a poster or invitation.




Times and dates usually have a mix of numerals & letters. Although you should consult an etiquette book for a wedding or a formal party, you can use a general rule: wore look more formal than digits. To add visual formality, you can spell out numerals as words, and just include more words, period. Use "Saturday, March fourteen" rather than "March 14," and "Five-thirty in the afternoon" rather than the more casual "5:30 P. M."

Robert Boyajian
SPECIAL NUMERALS
Some anniversaries and birthdays carry a special symbolism. Your pen can transform them into emblems that crystallize a moment.







