



120 IDEAS FOR TINY LIVING
Acknowledgements
There are so many people who helped make this book a reality.
I couldn't possibly thank everyone so here are just a few.
For Jill Valuet:
 Thank you for declaring years ago that neither of
us could call ourselves writers if we never wrote anything. 
Because of you I got my act together and started put words on 
pages. I couldn't have done this without your friendship.
For Ryan Mitchell:
 I woke up on March 17, 2010 to find my 
story featured on The Tiny Life.  If it hadn't been for you, Ryan, I 
would have never known that anyone cared enough to want to 
hear what I had to say.
For Andrew Odom:
 I've met a lot of people in the tiny house
community but Drew has been a real inspiration and,
occasionally, a partner in crime. Thanks for giving me a chance
to have my voice heard quite literally.
And finally, for Matt:
 There aren't enough words I can say to 
thank you for all you have done for me. If it weren't for this
crazy idea to build and live in a tiny house to begin with I could 
have never followed my passion to be a writer. Thank you for
being my partner for all these years. There is nothing we can't
do together. 







120 IDEAS FOR TINY LIVING
Introduction
Whether you want to simplify your life or downsize your home
there is wisdom to be found in the tiny house movement.
There is a lot to consider when deciding to make a transition to 
any type of alternative living situation. There are lessons to be
learned from these kinds of changes that could revolutionize
the way we interact with our environment and the people
around us. In this book we will explore 120 ideas for tiny house
living - everything from how to build it to how to decorate it. 
We will explore big ideas, small ideas, and everything in 
between.
"I went to the woods because I wished to 
live deliberately, to front only the 
essential facts of life, and see if I could not 
learn what it had to teach, and not, when
I came to die, discover that I had not 
lived." - Henry David Thoreau
About Life in 120 Square Feet
For all of our adult lives my partner and I felt drawn to live
unconventionally. We embraced Thoreau's philosophy to "Live
Deliberately." Every aspect of our lives, from sleeping, to eating,
to enjoying each other's company, should be an experience.
Over the course of our relationship we explored everything
from traveling the country in an RV to living full time on a boat. 
We looked into alternative construction like EarthShips and
Cordwood Masonry. It wasn't until a friend introduced us to 
the Tiny House Movement and Jay Shafer's original tiny house
company, Tumbleweed Tiny Houses, that a solution finally felt
right. We bought land in the mountains of North Carolina and
began building our tiny dream house. Working on the house
took us three years as we commuted back and forth from 
Atlanta to Asheville. This was our adventure. We poured 
concrete, framed walls, built cabinets and doors. We picked out
colors and storage solutions and designed specialty items to fit
our needs. Every decision was deliberate. We always had to 
look ahead to the finished product so we understood how this
puzzle would fit together. With the tiny house finished, we
moved in and continued blogging about the experience. 
People ask us all the time what it is like living in such a small
space. Now is a good time to share some of the lessons we've
learned along the way.
In this book we will explore aspects of tiny house living from the
construction to exterior design to landscaping. We will check
out some alternative energy systems to run a tiny house. We
will look at other alternative buildings to consider. We will
examine ways to organize and ways to decorate your tiny space
as well as how to live there by yourself, with another person,
with a family, or with your pets. 
"As we live and as we are, Simplicity with a capital 'S" - is difficult to 
comprehend nowadays. We are no longer
truly simple. We no longer live in simple 
terms or places. Life is a more complex
struggle now. It is now valiant to be 
simple: a courageous thing to even want
to be simple. It is a spiritual thing to
comprehend what simplicity means." -
Frank Lloyd Wright
A Quick Note about Photos
All of the photos in this book, unless otherwise noted, were
taken by me. I am a casual photographer (not even amateur)
and I am certain the quality of the photos will reflect this. 
However, I decided to use my own photographs rather than hire
a professional in order to maintain the authenticity of our 
experience. I hope you enjoy them.
1. MORNINGS IN THE TINY HOUSE
The sun rises over the mountain and I slowly wake up about
8am when the sky is already a brilliant blue. The mists that give
the Smoky Mountains their name are lingering in the trees all
around us. It feels like we're in a world apart from everyone
else. The air is cool, no matter the time of year, and I feel a
genuine sense of serenity about me. 
Mornings in our tiny house are very peaceful. If you get up
before the dawn you are rewarded with the most amazing
sunrise through the mountains and trees; more beautiful than 
you could ever imagine. There are incredible shades of orange
and pink without names to describe them. The chill in the air is
permeable even in the heat of summer. The air is never still at
these elevations. 
That is how I start my day every day. Imagine being in a position 
to do this for yourself and your family. Imagine having a small
house anywhere in the world that calls to you. What are you
waiting for?
2. FRIED EGG SANDWICH
Let's start out our first Tiny House morning with a simple
breakfast recipe.
Easy preparation is important for cooking in a small space with 
sparse resources. This fried egg sandwich couldn't be any
simpler and it is so delicious.
You need: 
Eggs
English muffins
Cheese (cheddar or another favorite) 
Bell Peppers (I prefer green, but
you can use any color)
Toast the English muffins. We
do this using our cast iron skillet
because we do not have a
toaster. We put a little butter
on the muffins and place them
face down until they are golden brown and delicious. When 
they are removed we add a teeny bit of olive oil to the pan. You 
could add more butter if you prefer. We slice the bell peppers
so they make rings about a quarter to a half an inch thick and
place them in the pan until you they have a little char. Crack an 
egg in the middle of each ring. Cook the egg until the yolk is just
the way you like it, flipping about halfway through. I like my 
yolks a little soft so we only cook them for a minute or two on
each side. Place the cheese on the hot egg and pepper and
cover the pan to allow it to melt before placing the whole thing
on the English muffin. Enjoy. 
3. BUILDING THE TINY HOUSE YOURSELF
With your first delicious tiny house breakfast out of the way, it
is time to get down to the serious business of deciding how and
where you want to build your little home.
Part and parcel of the tiny house movement is the do it yourself
nature of the process. Many people choose this route because
they can be in control of every aspect of their house's structure. 
Here are some reasons you may want to build a tiny house
yourself.

Choosing your own materials as you go.

Being in control over the form and function.

Designing a space that works best for you.

Working on your own time line.

Modifying things as you go because you figured out a
better way.

Having a sense of satisfaction that you built it with your
own hands.
4. HAVING YOUR HOME PROFESSIONALLY BUILT
The second option for building a tiny house is to pay a company
to build it for you. There are many tiny house builders
throughout the country. More are establishing businesses every 
day. It is easy to find someone near enough that can consult
with you and learn about your needs. Here are some reasons
you may choose to have your tiny house built by a professional
company.

They are professionals. That means they have skills that
homeowners don't possess and would have to learn on
the fly.

They can likely build it in a shorter time frame than if
you had to learn as you go along.

They will work with you on the design to suit your 
needs.

The only anticipation you will have is waiting to move in 
rather than worrying about every step of the build.
5. WHEELS OR FOUNDATION
There are two choices when it comes to the foundation of your
tiny house. Do you choose wheels or permanent foundation?
There are pretty clear reasons why you should choose one or
the other depending on your lifestyle. 
Wheels offer mobility and in some cases can avoid or lessen 
local zoning challenges. By constructing a home on a trailer you
bypass a classification as a building and become an RV or
Motorhome. The structure is then licensed by the DMV or
equivalent in your state rather than being subject to building
code inspections. 
However, other
inspections might be
required.
If you chose to build 
on a foundation, there
is always a risk with 
this approach. Policies
and elected officials
can change in each municipality and so might your situation.
The other option when working with a foundation is to build a
slightly larger home that is compliant with minimum size
requirements within your city. This may mean you end up with a
500 square foot home rather than a 200 square foot home, but
you will be able to work closely with code officials and
inspectors to construct your home legally on your property.
Sometimes you can build a smaller structure if there is already a
habitable home on site. Creative solutions include building on 
family land or renting a yard.
6. TYPES OF TINY HOUSES
While the most common style of tiny
house is a small, conventionally framed 
home on a trailer or foundation, like ours,
there are other options to consider. There
are countless styles one can choose for
building a tiny house. I want to explore a
few of them in short detail. These styles
include:

air stream

boat

cobb

cordwood

earth bag

Earthships

gypsy

other mobile home

school bus

tree house

underground house

yurt
7. BOATS
Boats are probably the original and most common tiny house
design. Thousands of people chose a nautical lifestyle whether
it is on a sailboat or maybe a trawler docked somewhere along
the coast. There are also intricate little houses built on floating
foundations like the houseboat community in Sausalito 
California. When my aunt, who had lived on a boat for some
time, saw our tiny house for the first time she felt right at home
commenting that it was a lot like living on a boat. The only 
difference is that our boat is on a mountain.
8. COB
Another alternative building option is Cob. This is an historic
building technique used in Europe over 500 years ago. It mixes
natural materials from the region to create sturdy clay 
structures. Because cob buildings only use the clay for building
they become what are essentially concrete structures or
"monolithic" as some describe them. Cob is labor intensive but
it is environmentally friendly and can be built to any scale. 
Because of the labor involved, it may work perfectly for a small
structure. 
9. CORDWOOD MASONRY
Cordwood Masonry is another very old building technique that
has been modernized by many alternative builders in the United 
States. 
Cordwood masonry is the method of using logs with the cut
ends turned to face the exterior of the home rather than
traditional, lengthwise log cabin design. The cords of wood 
create an extremely efficient insulation. Between the stacks of
logs is a hand mixed mortar that finishes the walls. You often 
see individuals placing colorful glass bottles in the structure as
well with this technique. The flexibility of cordwood provides
infinite design possibilities. You can use it to build any size home
but it would make an excellent tiny space. 
10. EARTH BAG
These homes are built by filling bags with the right type of soil
which are then stacked upon one another to build the wall. 
They are commonly used to build shelters for various
humanitarian projects because they are relatively easy to
construct but require quite a bit of labor. These communities
will come together under a management crew and build these
homes in the matter of days.
Like all of the ideas included here, these buildings can be built
to any size but because of the labor involved a tiny or small
house could be ideal. 
11. AIRSTREAM
Jay Shafer's first tiny home was an Airstream trailer and it is a
popular choice among housing rebels. However, he tells stories
that no matter how much he tried to winterize, the little metal
box was an uncomfortable winter retreat. Depending on where
you live and what you want out of your tiny house a classic
airstream can make for an amazing experience. Because of the
retro vibe at its core there are so many things you can do to the
interior to make it a functional and aesthetically pleasing home. 
12. EARTHSHIPS
Earthships are another method of building that is intended to 
be self-sufficient and ecologically sustainable. They are always
built with solar power and excellent water reclamation systems. 
The most well-known community is the Greater World 
Earthship Community in Taos New Mexico where there are
several buildings available to rent by the night or week. 
This style is built using recycled tires and rammed earth. You 
place the tires to create the structure and fill them with packed 
dirt. It is very labor intensive. The south facing part of the house
is always built with large windows where you will plant an 
indoor garden that uses the gray water produced by the homes
inhabitants. It is a truly elegant system.
13. VARDO OR GYPSY WAGON
A gypsy wagon, or a vardo, is another common type of tiny
house. Many people are choosing to construct updated versions 
of these little wagons because of their style and aesthetic. Many
use bright colors and luxurious fabrics throughout. There are
often intricate designs on the exterior. A vardo is usually a
simple bedroom on wheels, but adding a simple bathroom and
kitchen can make the structure a more functional living space. 
14. RVS AND OTHER MOTOR HOMES
Like boats, motor homes and RVs are also popular mobile living
spaces. They are often used as traveling vacation homes or by
retirees who want to see the country. There is no reason why a
well maintained RV can't be a permanent tiny house for an
enthusiast. Because of the prevalence of RV parks throughout
the country you can lead a truly nomadic lifestyle with these
homes. 
15. REPURPOSED SCHOOL BUS
A more funky idea for building a small home is to convert an old 
school bus. Lots of individuals have done this and showcased 
their work on the web. A school bus is very similar to the size of
an RV so by stripping the interior down to the frame it provides
a blank canvas for designing something incredibly cool and to 
suit your own tastes. 
16. TREE HOUSE
Why not live out your childhood fantasies by building your
home in a tree? If you are in an area where you can take
advantage of the vertical space this might be a great solution for
going tiny. There are many ways to construct a tree house and
many of them do not harm the tree in any way. Imagine waking
up in the morning and looking out over the tree tops. 
17. UNDERGROUND HOUSE
Rob Roy, leading builder of cordwood masonry homes, was also 
well known for underground house movement in the 60s and
70s. Building a home underground can be a great way to take
advantage of the environment and potential geothermal heat.
There are several ways to construct a home below the ground 
including burying a shipping container or doing an earth burmed 
home where the house is dug into a sloped area. 
18. YURT
A Yurt is a Mongolian structure designed to be useful for their
nomadic lifestyle. At its most basic it is a round frame covered
by sturdy fabric like skins or, in modern times, canvas. Many
companies are building yurts with all the conveniences of home
and they can be an incredible tiny space. 
In some strange way, many tiny house owners have at one time
thought about living in a yurt. I wonder if this kind of nomadic
dream pushes us to find ways to make this sort of lifestyle really 
work in our lives. 
19. THE MODERN TINY HOUSE
Now that you know what you want to build, how do you want
to build it? There are countless options when it comes to the
overall look of the house and some of the styles will inform the
overall design. Many of the designs I gravitate toward tend to 
be either modern or rustic and sometimes a strange
combination of both.
Typically, modern is demonstrated with clean lines, white
accents, and glass or metal trimmings. Use metal as the uprights
for your ladder. Install metal or glass shelving. Use white on 
your walls but add a pop of red on the sofa or bed. The Swedish 
furniture giant Ikea can help you design a great modern place
with simplicity and keep it very user friendly.
20. THE RUSTIC TINY HOUSE
A second common house style is rustic. This is like the
quintessential log cabin with lots of wood and natural elements. 
Usually it had warm colors such as browns and oranges. 
Sometimes it may also incorporate frontier or Southwestern 
motifs. 
You may consider building a porch railing using branches for the
balusters. You may incorporate natural motifs with stencils. Use
bare wood and warm fabrics throughout. 
For a tiny house design it may be fun to play with a combination 
of these two styles and design a modern rustic house.
21. WHERE TO PARK OR BUILD
Where to build or park your tiny house is a key question for any
small building project. It is not one that is easily answered. You 
need to answer three simple questions to determine what is
right for you. 

Do you want to be mobile?

Do you want to be in a city?

Do you want to be in the country?
Depending on the lifestyle you want and the reason you're
building a tiny house in the first place your answer will vary.
Many people will build their home in the back yard of a family 
member or in their own back yard if they already have a home.
Or if you choose to build on a foundation, like we did, you will
want to have your land already, of course. 
A tiny house on wheels allows for many parking options. You 
can rent backyard space which you may be able to find on Tiny
House Listings. Or you can find a spot in a remote area and live
there. There is some debate in the community about RV parks. 
Some are allowing tiny houses and others are still considering
the issue.
Check your local building codes and RV Parking requirements
before you set up shop anywhere. 
22. TINY HOUSE IN THE CITY
There are many places you can park your tiny house and many
people build with the intention of living in the city. The city 
presents its own challenges with the building codes. I 
interviewed Macy Miller of Mini Motives for the Tiny House
Listings website and she gave some pretty good advice about
dealing with codes. You should be able to approach the city 
government to talk about what you can do. Ultimately, once the
house it built it will need to be registered with the DMV or
equivalent in your state as an RV or Motorhome. This will
change the legal status of the house and you will find some
places you can park it. There are many ways to have a tiny
house in the city, sometimes you just need to be creative about
it. 
Photo by Marie Mosley. 
23. TINY HOUSE IN THE COUNTRY
Having a tiny house out in the country is a different concept
altogether. Often, rural areas will have a much more relaxed 
attitude. There are areas of the country where you might not be
so far out of town that it isn't worth it. 
We made the choice to build our home in the mountains. We
made friends with our neighbors, which was easy to do since
they are all so wonderful, and let them know exactly what we
were doing and how we were doing it. We even shared our
systems with them so they could see how the gray water and
composting worked.
"Have nothing in your houses that you do
not know to be useful or believe to be 
beautiful." - William Morris
24. TYPES OF WINDOWS
Here is a funny story. Years ago, when we bought our plans
from the Tumbleweed Tiny House Company we were told that
the windows recommended were standard sizes. So we framed
the house according to plan before purchasing the windows
themselves. When we got to the point where we were ready to
buy the windows we discovered that standard sizes differed 
throughout the country. We considered our options and
decided to invest in custom windows.
We chose double hung windows for our home. We wanted to 
be able to open and close the windows in a manner that was
safe for our cat so she wouldn't push out the screen and escape.
We thought we might open them from the top which we
actually don't do but it is nice to have the option.
We chose a hand cranked awning style for the lofts. 
What are some other window styles you could choose?

Casement Windows

Awning windows

Double hung

Picture window

Gliding window

Skylight

Bay window
Many tiny house builders also choose to repurpose old windows
they find at antique shops, thrift stores, or reclamation stores.  
25. BUILDING YOUR TINY ROOF
How to construct your roof is as big a decision as how to frame
the walls of the house or whether or not to build on a
foundation.
Your roof can be a simple A Frame roof, be peaked with gables,
or be a sloped shed style roof. There are pros and cons to any 
choice. Let's look at the options.

The easiest is the simple A Frame. A builder will explain 
the proper formula for you to use to have the correct
angles. It is straightforward to frame and sheath 
because it is two straight lines. 

Additionally you can add gables and dormers to your
roof. 

A shed style roof would have been our second choice. 
Because of the style house we built with the loft it was
not practical for us, but a simple one plane roof that
slopes would be great for collecting rain water. You 
could also put a beautiful bank of windows just under
the eaves for a great view from the loft. 
26. A TINY PORCH
We built our tiny house porch as a separate stand-alone deck in 
front of the house. It is connected to the house by the porch 
roof overhang. We used deck block to level the tiny deck and it
took just a couple of hours to construct the whole thing. The
overhang was attached to the house using a beam and bird's
mouth cuts on 2X4s. This was covered in the same roofing
material as the rest of our roof. We used beautiful cedar 4X4 
posts to create a lintel and posts to connect it to the porch 
proper. We added two small stools made out of reclaimed barn 
wood. A red and blue garden gnome stands guard at the door. 
You will meet him later in this book.
27. YOUR EXTERIOR SIDING
How you want the exterior of your tiny house to look is purely a
question of aesthetics. Do you want something more modern,
more traditional, or more rustic? There are many possible
options to consider.

Cedar shingles. This classic material will give your house
an adorable cottage look. Naturally 
resistant to rot and insect damage,
cedar is a hardy material that
stands the test of time. 

Metal. A more industrial feel can be
achieved with corrugated metal. 
Done properly this can be maintenance free as long as
you like the look of weathered metal. 

Clapboard. This style is an iconic look for many tiny
homes. It is a good balance between labor and cost. 

Board and batten. This traditional country style is made
using vertical boards where the joints are covered by
smaller battens. Some builders replicate this technique
by siding the home with stained plywood and covering
the seams with 1x2s. 

Reclaimed materials. Another option is to look at
reclaimed wood or other materials to side your house. 
Barn wood is a common option. Also, imagine a tiny
house covered in old license plates! 
28. YOUR INTERIOR WALL COVERING
Finishing the interior of the house is as important as deciding
how to finish the exterior. Here are some ideas for interior
finish.

Bead board

Pine or cedar siding

Drywall
You may also choose a combination of these with a chair rail
and drywall. Depending on how you choose to finish your house
you can decide on colors and other decorative touches. Many
traditional tiny houses use tongue and groove boards for the
interior walls. 
"Too many people spend money they 
haven't earned, to buy things they don't 
want, to impress people they don't like." -
Will Rogers
29. TINY HOUSE FURNITURE
When furnishing your tiny home you need to make sure that all
the pieces are not only comfortable but small and functional. 
You aren't likely to be able to fit a Lazyboy recliner in the space
so think carefully about how you want to plan the placement of
your furniture in your tiny house. I believe that a small space
only needs a few select pieces of furniture to make it complete.
Regardless of what you choose for your home it needs to speak 
to you and make your space a comfortable, everyday retreat. 
Many tiny house builders get not only their inspiration but also 
their furniture from Ikea. Simply walking around their
showroom and looking at the ways they can fit pieces into their
small space exhibits is enough to get the tiny house dreamer's
creative juices flowing.
30. SOFA IN THE TINY HOUSE
Seating in the tiny house can be difficult. We went through
several ideas before settling on our solution. Many people build 
their own sofa into the design of the tiny house. We did a hybrid 
approach. We found a tiny dorm style futon with a frame that
didn't work for us. We built a frame out of 2x4s and re-bolted 
the seat on top. This also allowed us to have storage
underneath. This sofa is comfortable and works great in the
space. 
You can be as creative as the space allows for your tiny house
seating. Other options include:

Small sectional sofa

Built in seating within a bay window area

Futon

Pillows and cushions on the floor
31. DIRECTOR'S CHAIRS AS STOOLS
Before moving into the tiny house we owned a set of directors'
chairs. It struck us that we could remove the arms and use them 
as stools, which made us feel rather smart. They are very
comfortable and I spend much of the day there typing since I 
work from home. Directors' chairs are small and take up very
little space plus they can be easily folded and stored if
necessary. What are some other dining chair options for tiny
houses? 

Stackable chairs

Desk chairs on wheels

Folding butterfly chairs

Bar stools
32. DINING TABLE
Our dining table is one of our favorite things in our tiny house. It
was one of the first accessories we bought. Several other tiny
house builders also use the same table. This wall mounted 
folding table, called a Norbo, is available at Ikea. It is exactly the
right size to fit between the two windows. 
There are a lot of potential options for tiny house tables. You 
can buy one commercially or you can make one yourself. Here
are some other options tiny house builders have chosen.

You could mount half of a salvaged or repurposed table
to the wall to create an interesting look.

Build a bar/desk/table into the wall just as you would a
counter top. This would provide multiple uses.

A table that folds up into the wall vs. down like ours.

A very small stand-alone table.

A table with removable legs that can be stored away.
33. YOUR CHOICE OF BED
Your bed is going to be one of the most important decisions you
make in a tiny house. When we began building our Tarleton the
suggestion made by the Tumbleweed Tiny House Company was
to build a bed out of foam. We decided we wanted something
different. Our original plan was to use an air mattress but
decided against it. In fact, we spent two months sleeping on a
double high air mattress while visiting family for the holidays
and were very glad we didn't use one in the tiny house. Instead,
we invested in a futon mattress. We placed it up in the sleeping
loft and it is a perfect fit and very comfortable. 
Other ideas for tiny house beds include:

Murphy bed

Slide Away Bed or trundle

Futon (mattress or full pull out couch style frame)

Tatami Mat

Conventional Mattress

Air Mattress

Foam Mattress of your own design
"The minute you choose to do what you 
really want to do, it's a different kind of
life!" - R. Buckminster Fuller
34. IMAGINE SPRING AT THE TINY HOUSE
Spring on our mountain is inspiring. The bright green leaves
begin to sprout on the tree branches and the animals emerge
from winter in the Smokies.  Spring is the time for projects on
the land for us. Time to plant a garden. Time to work with the
spring water to make sure it is optimal. Time to clean up after
any winter storms. 
A couple of years ago I planted daffodils near a garden statue. 
When they push their new green leaves from the ground and
slowly open their yellow petals to face the sun, I know that
winter is nearly over. Plant your favorite bulbs near your tiny
house to give yourself the same sense of renewal each year. 
35. MID-DAY AT THE TINY HOUSE
It is time to take a break. Put aside your work and your chores
and spend some time relaxing. Fix yourself some lunch and
think about how the rest of your day will look. 
When I am working from my tiny house I'm usually done with 
my writing by about midday. I often take short breaks to tackle
some of my chores such as emptying the gray water or filling
our water filter. These things help me stay connected to our tiny
life. 
How would you spend your days if you lived and worked from
your tiny home? What are the things you've always wanted to
do? Will you be on or off the grid? Will you be living with 
someone else or by yourself? All of these are things to consider
when deciding to go tiny. Now is the perfect time to consider
these questions and more. 
36. PLOUGHMAN'S LUNCH
I've never been a fan of sandwiches. I don't mind a nice Panini
now and again and occasionally I will occasionally eat a sub but I 
don't prefer a sandwich. Lunches were always complicated for
me when I was working - I hated every option I could think of. It
was really a shame that I didn't think of this idea while I had a
full time job. 
What I do love are antipasto or charcuterie or cheese plates. Or,
as a friend called them, ploughman's lunches. Rural workers
would take cured meat, a chunk of cheese, and hearty bread in 
the fields with them when they worked. The options are
endless. Here is a typical lunch for
me. 

Cured meat. We pick out
different dried sausages
each trip to the store but
typically it will be a
pepperoni or salami. I also 
love prosciutto. 

Cheese. This can be a hard cheese or a soft spreadable
cheese. My favorites are sharp cheddars or herbed goat
cheeses. 

Crackers or bread. I prefer the crunch of crackers so I 
won't typically get just a loaf of French bread but that is
an option. I like bagel chips or any type of organic
cracker. 
37. THE HOME OFFICE
Lots of people ask us about working in the tiny house. One blog 
reader wanted to know how I had space for a home office to 
include printers, books, paperwork, etc. For us, working in the
tiny house was all about changing our entire concept of
"working." I am a freelance writer. Most of my work is done on
a computer and submitted through the internet. I do all of my 
research on line as well. Therefore, the only tools that are
essential for working are my laptop and an internet connection.
My home office is housed in my laptop case where I store my 
computer and all the associated cables and other random
chargers and items. I do, of course, have a pen and one small
notebook to write down things the old fashioned way.
38. INTERNET IN OUR OFF THE GRID HOUSE
In conjunction to working in the tiny house people also wonder
how we have an internet connection. Of course, if you have a
tiny house on the grid this is not an issue and you can get any
sort of service. People sometimes think that since we live off
the grid and up on a mountain that we can't have internet. We
actually use a wireless internet hotspot available through my 
cell phone provider. All of the major carriers offer these services
and they are affordable. We ran a wire through the wall and it
connects the wireless hotspot to a magnetic antenna that sits
on our metal roof thus creating a giant antenna. We have 4G
signal on our mountain.
39. SOCIAL MEDIA FOR THE TINY HOUSE
This seems like a strange topic, but I have put a lot of thought
into the best way to handle social media from the tiny house.  I 
realize that I am not a pioneer roughing it along the Oregon
Trail, rather someone who wants to live a simple life combined 
with technology where it fits. I love the fact that we are off the
grid but I couldn't stand to live without my internet connection.
Lots of tiny house owner's blog and promote their own story on 
the internet. LinkedIn is an essential network for building my 
business. Facebook is great for keeping up with friends, family 
and other like-minded individuals. We are far flung but because
of the internet I know tiny housers from California, Idaho,
Georgia, Florida, Oregon, Michigan, and dozens of other places. 
We stay connected on the internet because we can. We keep in 
touch because we all care about transforming our lives through
simple living. All of us have very different reasons for wanting to 
do what we do, but we are able to come together to share ideas
and our stories with one other. It reinforces our community. No 
one is truly alone with social media to bring us together.
As you simplify your life, the laws of the 
universe will be simpler; solitude will not 
be solitude, poverty will not be poverty, 
nor weakness weakness. -Henry David 
Thoreau
40. SOLAR POWER SYSTEM
When we started our tiny house build we had a small solar
panel set up with small portable batteries. While this worked 
fine on a temporary basis but to live in our tiny space full time
we needed to amp it up, no pun intended. We replaced our
temporary 60 watt solar panel system with a new Kyocera 490 
watt system. This consists of two 245 watt panels that connect
to 45 amp Tristar MPPT charge controller made by Morning
Star. These feed into three 110 amp hour AGM batteries. We
used the same trusty 1800 watt inverter from our original
system to convert all the power to AC inside the house. There
are separate breakers throughout the system so they can be
safely isolated and serviced at any time.
All of the wiring runs underground in rigid conduit.
We had bought a traditional pole and top of pole mount for the
panels but we wanted more flexibility to move them since the
sun varies in position in our clearing throughout the year. Matt
custom designed a mount that allow us to do this as necessary. 
We bought everything at the AltE Store online and they were
quite helpful throughout the process. 
41. ARTIFICIAL WETLAND
Years ago, when we first decided that we wanted to build 
something sustainable in the mountains of Western North
Carolina, we found a book called Healing Appalachia. In it were
tons of great ideas for environmentally friendly systems that
you could use to improve your own patch of the Appalachian 
Mountains. I hope that wherever you are in the country that
you might be able to find similar local resources.
One idea stuck with us: building an artificial wetland. This
system is intended recycle any gray water you generate from 
your off the grid home. We have a 5 gallon bucket that hangs
beneath our shower drain and all water that is used for cleaning
ourselves or dishes is collected there. We use biodegradable
shampoos and soaps to keep as many chemicals as possible out
of the watershed. Each day we remove the bucket and pour it
into our artificial wetland. It cycles through the series of rocks
and empties out at the edge of the woods. 
Our design is modified to fit our space and our aesthetics. The
idea is still the same - water goes through layers of pumice,
river rock and pea gravel which helps filter it before it goes into 
the ecosystem. We chose to us a series of pots in descending
size connected by rigid pipe. This is not only a functional system 
but an attractive one as well. Depending on your situation you
may be able to connect a hose directly to your system.
42. HYDRO POWER SOLUTIONS
We have often thought of ways we might be able to make use
of the spring on our land besides just using the water. Even with
our limited water flow power can be generated by installing a
micro-hydro power system. If you build or park your home on 
land with a river or stream you may be able to generate a
substantial amount of power. 
There are several ideas for constructing homemade hydro
power solutions available on the internet.  
43. RAIN WATER CATCHMENT
If you don't have or want to use spring or well water for your off
the grid tiny house, another popular option is rain catchment. 
This is something we plan to do on our own tiny house but
because we have access to spring water we haven't rushed to 
build it.
The roofing material that we purchased is coated with a food 
grade finish which will allow us to collect water that is
ultimately potable. We will install gutters on either side of the
house that will lead into a rain catchment barrel. In colder
climates you may need to bury the barrel below the frost line to 
prevent the water from freezing. 
44. WIND POWER
I never thought of wind power as a reliable source of energy for
a tiny house. It seemed as though the cost of the equipment to
produce it would be entirely unreasonable for someone
choosing to live a more simple life. That was until I learned 
about portable wind turbine technology. There are several
models designed for and marketed to the RV communities. 
Some even have telescoping mounts which make set up and 
take down extremely easy.
Smaller wind turbines have become increasingly more
affordable over the last few years. It might be worth looking
into if you are in an area where you can make great use of the
wind's power. 
"The true way to live is to enjoy every moment as it 
passes, and surely it is in the everyday things around 
us that the beauty of life lies." - Laura Ingalls Wilder
45. YOUR TINY BATHROOM.
A bathroom is often taken for granted in a traditional house but
there are some additional considerations when constructing
one in a tiny home. Some of these can feel like insurmountable
obstacles in a small space. Here are some of the things to take
into consideration for your tiny bathroom.

Bathroom Doors

Shower

Toilet

Storage
46. YOUR TINY BATHROOM DOORS
If you have enough space in your home you may want to install
a sliding door. 
We decided to make two small doors that close together in the
middle. This solves a couple of problems. A full size door would 
bang into the cabinets when it is open. With two doors it is easy 
to access the bathroom even if someone else is in the kitchen.
At one time we thought about curtains for the bathroom door 
but decided it would not provide enough privacy or enclosure
for the space. I had also really wanted to do swinging western 
saloon doors, but the design just wasn't right. Bifold closet
doors might have worked as well.
Consider how your bathroom is situated in your house. What
makes sense for the space? Is it better for the door to swing in 
or out? Can you use a traditional door, a pocket door, or a
folding door?
47. SHOWERING IN THE TINY HOUSE
Since we made the decision to leave out plumbing (for now) we
needed have a solution for how to take a shower inside. In the
time we spent building and camping near our tiny house we
tried every kind of outdoor shower you can imagine. We used a
submersible pump. We used a copper coil water heater. We
used gravity fed bags. We used a Coleman hot water on 
demand system. All of them were good, but none were perfect. 
Then Matt met a man who lived on a boat and used a simple
garden sprayer for his shower. We thought this was a great
idea, but there might be a way to improve it. 
We found ourselves searching the local home improvement
stores to buy a garden sprayer, a shower nozzle attachment and
some plumbing parts to fit them all together. The sprayer we
found has an on/off switch so we can take an old fashioned 
boat shower - turn on the water, get wet, turn off the water,
soap up, turn on the water, rinse, repeat. It is amazing how
much water is wasted in a traditional shower configuration. Our 
daily water use is pretty minimal. 
Since we don't have a hot water tap we use a slightly more old 
fashioned method for heating our water. We fill the 2 gallon 
sprayer with about a gallon of air temperature water. Then we
fill our kettle with about a half-gallon and heat it on our stove. 
Once it boils we add it to the water already in the sprayer,
screw on the top, shake and pump. The final outcome is a
delightfully air pressurized and hot shower.  A gallon and a half
is enough to get everything quite clean and I usually get a few
relaxing moments to luxuriate in the hot water. 
Showering is no longer just a shower, it is an experience. 
48. THE TINY HOUSE TOILET
No one wants to talk about it, but the subject is important:
toilets in the tiny house. Many tiny house builders go with a dry
composting system as described by Joseph Jenkins in The
Humanure Handbook. There are also commercially available
composting toilets that you can install which do the same thing
but in a more technologically advanced way. I have also seen 
other bloggers mention an incinerating toilet which I find most
fascinating.
The best part about building a composting toilet is being able to 
create one that fits your space. You can include a toilet paper
holder and a storage bin for the cover material. 
I am not an expert on humanure. If you're interested in learning
more about how it works and why it is perfectly safe, I highly 
recommend checking out the book by Joseph Jenkins.
Other options for tiny house bathrooms include commercial
composting systems, incinerating toilets, and traditional
plumbing. All will require specialized systems to install and work
properly.
Simplicity is an acquired taste. Mankind,
left free, instinctively complicates life. Katharine Fullerton Gerould
49. A TINY KITCHEN
Designing your tiny house kitchen involves the art of spatial
relations. With such a small prep area you need to make every
space count and be as efficient as possible. 
We chose to make standard counters with cabinets beneath
and used open shelves for storage above the counters. 
Everything in the kitchen is functional. There are four drawers
beneath the two smallest counters and three shelves in the
largest cabinet. The final cabinet is for refrigeration where we
use a small cooler. In order to keep the space open, we chose
not to build upper cabinets
Everything on the counter should be decorative as well as
useful. With two people in the kitchen it may seem cramped at
times, but you can expand some of the food preparation to the
table. 
50. TINY UTENSILS AND OTHER EASY TO USE KITCHEN GADGETS
Utensils are necessary but they often take up a lot of space. Use
collapsible items as much as you can - they are becoming quite
popular. We have collapsible set of measuring cups which stores
flat as well as a collapsible calendar for draining pasta and
washing vegetables. An immersion blender can be a valuable
space saving tool. We also like pots and pans that nest. They are
made for camping but work very well for tiny houses. Make sure
everything in the tiny house has a place where it belongs or else
the clutter will start to get out of hand. 
51. HOW TO USE REFRIGERATION
There is a movement outside of the tiny house community to 
reduce our dependence on refrigeration. Even families living in 
suburban homes are trying to live without using their
refrigerator to store foods. 
When we had a refrigerator we found that it was typically filled 
with half used condiments and not much else. We would often 
bring left overs home with us and not eat them. By choosing not
to have a conventional
refrigerator in the tiny house
we have become more
conscious about the amount
of food we cook or that we
order in a restaurant. If you
eat food within a few days of
purchasing it many things
such as fruits or vegetables
can go without refrigeration.
Even butter and eggs don't
need to be kept too cold.
Make sure you have a cool,
dry place in your home. For
us, our cabinets never get very hot even on the warmest days. 
We also have a cooler inside the house which we can add ice to
as necessary. The truth is, we rarely use it.
52. STIRLING ENGINE COOLER
The one piece of refrigeration technology that we do have is a
Stirling Engine Cooler. This cooler was manufactured by
Coleman, the camping equipment company, primarily for use by
long haul truckers and fishermen. It is the size of a traditional
cooler and has an engine called a Stirling Engine. It is a very 
efficient engine that cools anything stored inside. We kept the
cooler under the house and power it through our battery 
system directly. We only turn it on when necessary. We
primarily used it to cool our craft beer. While the cooler is no 
longer made by Coleman, there are other similar units that are
still used on boats which might be a good fit for tiny spaces.
53. COOKING IN THE TINY HOUSE
Cooking in the tiny house presents its own set of challenges. 
Many people dream of the large kitchen with the top of the line
appliances. While many tiny house builders will install small
versions of regular kitchen appliances such as a refrigerator or a
stove, we chose to go a different route. Since our home is
completely off the grid we decided to use butane burners for
our general cooking and it works out very well for us. 
To make the best use of space, we also built an outdoor prep 
area. This gives us an opportunity to spread out a bit. 
54. TINY SPICES
Even an amateur cook needs access to herbs and spices. One
option is to grow an herb garden to have fresh flavors, but
sometimes jars of spice will do the job. Consider all the
decorative ways you can display your spices.

Fasten small mason jars or baby food jars under your
cabinets of shelves. Then you can simply unscrew the
jar to use the contents and put it back when you're
done.

Create a small niche in your interior wall between the
studs to stack your spices.

Put your spices in small metal containers and use a
magnetic strip on a vertical surface. 
55. USING CAST IRON COOKWARE
The single best weapon you can have in your tiny house kitchen 
arsenal is cast iron. In fact, I would recommend cast iron to 
anyone who wants to live, cook, and eat simply. Cast iron is
extremely user friendly and perfect for a home where you are
very careful about your water usage like ours. Properly 
seasoned cast iron cookware requires very little cleaning. Once
you have finished cooking in it, clean out any obvious food 
particles and then rub it with a little oil and it is ready to go for
the next time. I recently read an online tip that suggested using
coarse salt to clean it rather than soap.
We have three essential pieces of cast iron: a wok, a skillet and
a Dutch oven. We chose a skillet and Dutch oven set where the
skillet can double as a lid for the Dutch oven as necessary.
56. THE CAST IRON WOK
We invested in a nice cast iron wok. As I mentioned in the last
idea, cast iron is great because it is easy to clean and the food 
cooked on it tastes amazing. 
Stir-frys are easy because there really aren't any rules. Use
whatever you have. What kind of vegetables did you get from
the farmers market this week? They can be stir fried. If you
have left over rice and an extra farm fresh egg you can make
fried rice the next day. The fresh meats and vegetables from the
local farmer's market are great for this style of cooking. You can 
cook in your wok every day and make a completely different
meal each time.
57. EASY STIR FRY RECIPE
Ingredients:
Small strips or cubes of chicken or beef.
Vegetable oil
Chili Oil
Corn Starch
Honey
Ginger
Soy Sauce
Broccoli (or any vegetable you prefer. I like broccoli because it
holds the sauce and is very flavorful)
Brown rice
In a separate pot, start your rice according to package
directions. Bring it to a boil and then turn it down to simmer for
about 40 minutes or until tender. Wait the full 40 minutes,
though, because you don't want to lift the lid of the pot very
often.
In a small bowl combine soy sauce and water for the base of the
sauce. We do this without measuring specifically, but typically it
is a half a cup of each. Add ginger and honey to taste. Stir. Add a
very small amount of chili oil. It goes a long way and can easily 
ruin the sauce if too much is used. You can always add a drop or
two more as you go. Then whisk in cornstarch until the sauce is
thickened slightly. Again, you do this by sight. 
Go ahead and chop your broccoli.
When the rice is almost done, or done and kept warm, fire up
your wok. Once it is heated, drizzle with a little vegetable oil to
coat the cast iron. Throw in your chicken first - this will take the
longest to cook and needs to be cooked until it is no longer pink 
inside before you add the broccoli. Beef will take less time and
you can cook it to the temperature you prefer. Once the meat is
done, throw in the broccoli and the sauce. Stir it up and place
the lid on the wok. Give this just a couple minutes to steam and
your sir fry will be done. Serve over rice. 
58. NO UNITASKERS IN THE TINY HOUSE
I am a big fan of Alton Brown and his Food Network cooking
show Good Eats. On the show he preaches that no tool in the
kitchen should be a single task item. Nothing should have only 
one job. This is essential advice for the tiny house. There is no 
point to having 16 items that do one task each when you can 
replace it with one item that does 16 tasks. Consider your
kitchen needs before stocking it. What kinds of things do you
cook? What you enjoy doing in your kitchen? What kinds of
food requirements do you and your family need? For example,
we owned a garlic press but realized we could easily chop garlic
using the same cutting board and knife we use to chop
vegetables. Simplicity is key when it comes to tools in your tiny
kitchen.
59. BUTANE BURNERS
Many people will build their tiny house with a small kitchen 
range like those used in RVs. Since this was our first time
building anything we decided that we didn't want to install any
appliances. We chose to build straight forward cabinets and
counters and use stand-alone items for our cooking. We have a
camp oven, which can only be used outside, but for regular
stovetop cooking we use butane burners. Butane is efficient and
the little burners work quite well. We use them for everything
from heating showers to cooking dinner. The best part about
the butane burners is that they are portable
Other options for indoor cooking include

Stoves designed for RVs or Boats

Alcohol burning stoves

Electric hot plates

Induction burners
60. TINY DISHES FOR A TINY HOUSE
Determining how to store your dishes may be an interesting
challenge. We opted to create open shelving using shelf
brackets with a modern industrial design. Our dishes came from 
Ikea and because of their oval shape they are able to fit on 
skinnier shelves. We chose white so they would match any
décor. 
What other options exist for dishes in the tiny house?

Vintage China

Mismatched plates from thrift stores for a shabby chic
look

Match the dishes to your color scheme

Camping dishes for a rustic look

Earthenware produced by a local artist
61. STAYING CAFFEINATED IN THE TINY HOUSE
Before moving into our tiny house we used a Keurig coffee
maker for all of our hot beverages. These are the single cup
coffee makers that use K-Cups. I know a lot of other tiny house
dwellers need their morning coffee, too. We decided to invest
in a really nice kettle and use instant coffee. He likes the
Starbucks Via brand because it doesn't taste like instant coffee. 
The kettle can be used for a number of purposes. Other options
include:

The smallest model of the Keurig.

French press.

Aeropress

Becoming a regular at a local coffee shop.
62. USING WALLS AS STORAGE SPACE
Another great way to maximize your storage potential is to use
all the vertical space possible. Use a magnetic knife strip on your
wall. You can use hooks to hang your spoons, spatulas, and
other utensils. Use a cork board to pin things to the wall to keep
them off your tables and other surfaces. Use a chalk board to 
write notes rather than a pad of paper and a pen lying around 
the house. Creating shelves between the studs of your interior
walls is another great way to maximize the space. 
63. WATER IN THE UNPLUMBED TINY HOUSE
Lots of people ask us about our water system because we chose
not to have running water or conventional plumbing in our tiny
house. We decided to use the water from the spring that runs
on our land. We collect that water and carry it up to the house
in 4 gallon containers. Once there, we use a Big Berkey water
filtration system to filter the water for household use. This
water is used for showering, washing dishes, and drinking. 
"The secret of happiness, you see, is not 
found in seeking more, but in developing 
the capacity to enjoy less." - Socrates
64. THE TINY SUMMER
For us, summer is all about celebration. Each year as we were
building we hosted an Independence Day camp out over the 4th
of July Weekend. Of course, 4th of July is Independence Day in 
the U.S., but the title has double meaning for us - building this
tiny house gave us a new sense of independence in our lives. 
Our tradition is to invite our friends to camp on our land. One
year while we were still building the house I cooked several
things at our apartment in Atlanta and froze them. They thawed
in our cooler and I finished cooking them in our camp oven. One
night we had camp nachos. The next night we enjoyed two
different types of stuffed pasta shells. This wasn't your typical
camp out. We played music and told stories around the camp
fire. 
Our first year officially living in the tiny house we were traveling
near the 4th of July so we pushed our summer party back to 
later in the year. At this point the house was built, the outdoor
kitchen was finished, and the Folk N' Ale (our "back yard" deck)
became an outdoor stage. These are the kind of fantastic things
you can do at your tiny house in the summer. 
65. OUTDOOR LIVING SPACE
While we love living in our tiny house it is important to us to 
spend time outdoors as well. We really wanted to be able to 
maximize the 15 acres we own and enjoy the mountains and
the woods.
Regardless of where you build your tiny house or where you
park it, you will likely want to spend some of your time
outdoors. You may be in someone's back yard or in a rural area,
but make sure that you have a way to go outside and enjoy the
area you're in from time to time. 
Some ideas for outdoor living include:

solar light decoration

a porch or deck

growing herbs

a fire pit

landscaping your tiny house

gardening at your tiny house
66. THE BACONALIA
The ancient Romans celebrated the Bacchanalia in honor of
Bacchus, the god of wine. The idea of a bacon party came to us
while we were camping with friends. Late that week we
remembered that we had brought 2 pounds of bacon and we
really wanted to eat it, so we began to fry it. The sizzle and
aroma woke our camp mates and everyone was excited to get
their hands on some bacon as it came out of the pan. But that
much bacon generates a lot of grease. I said "what we need are
potatoes" and my friend said "I have potatoes!" So we cut them
up and threw them in the pan with some minced garlic and
cooked them for as long as it took for them to get perfectly 
golden brown, tender and delicious. It is great for a celebration.
If you decide to have your own Baconalia, I recommend cooking
outside or using a splatter guard. Since it only uses one pan it is
a great idea for an outdoor tiny house party.
We use our Dutch oven because the deeper sides keep the
grease splatter to a minimum.
Start by frying your bacon. As you set bacon aside on paper
towel to drain, don't be afraid to eat some as you continue to
cook. That is part of the fun. 
Once you've cooked a pound or so of bacon there should be
quite a bit of grease in the pan.
Cut potatoes into thin slices. The thinner they are the faster
they cook, but you don't want potato chip thin either. Maybe
about a quarter to half an inch thick. Throw them in the grease
and stir so everything is coated. Add some garlic or other
seasoning as you choose. The bacon grease is very flavorful,
however, so you don't need to do much. Let the potatoes cook
until they are tender. This can take up to 40 minutes or so. Then 
remove them from the pan with a spatula and drain them on a
paper towel and enjoy!
67. THE CAMP CHEF CAMP OVEN (OR EQUIVALENT)
When I was introduced to the Camp Chef Camp Oven it changed
the way I thought about cooking, camping, and living. The Camp
Chef Camp Oven is designed for camping applications but we
have found that it is a great addition to our tiny house. Since we
chose not to install a traditional oven in our home, we use our 
camp oven to cook outside. The Camp Oven is propane
powered, much like a traditional camp stove. You can simply 
screw in a one pound propane canister or use a larger tank with 
the regulator (available separately). The top of the camp oven is
a two burner stove useful for typical stovetop recipes. The oven 
itself is easy to light and use. 
Since it is a little more difficult to 
regulate the camp oven 
temperature than a household 
oven, it is best to leave the door 
closed as much as possible. If you
need to make adjustments to the
food during cooking or add any
ingredients, simply remove the item from the oven and close
the oven door to maintain the heat. 
We have used our camp oven to cook casseroles, roast
vegetables, and even bake. Smaller baking pans and cookie
sheets work well for this small oven and for tiny house living in 
general. 
. 
68. CAMP NACHOS
I learned this recipe while we were building our tiny house. I 
would make it ahead of time and freeze it. It would thaw in the
cooler while we worked on the house and I could cook it in the
camp oven that evening.
Ingredients:
1lb Ground Chicken
1 tablespoon olive oil
Roasted Red Pepper Flake
Minced Garlic
1 packet taco seasoning
1 can black beans, drained
1 cup salsa
Shredded Mexican Cheese
Tortilla Chips
Sour Cream (optional)
Heat the oil in a skillet and add a healthy dose of roasted red 
pepper flakes and garlic. When the garlic starts to brown add
the ground chicken. Break it up and let it cook through. Then 
add the taco seasoning. Mix thoroughly. Add the can of black
beans, the cup of salsa, and stir. Let the mixture cool and
transfer to the 6X6 pan (I use disposable foil pans). Cover in tin 
foil and freeze. 
Once you are ready for dinner at your campsite, set up your
Camp Chef Camp Oven and ignite. Set on high and wait for it to
come to 350 degrees. Once it does, turn it down to low. Remove
the foil from the nachos and place in oven. Monitor the oven to 
make sure the temperature stays at about 350 and adjust knob
as necessary. Cook for about 20 to 30 minutes or until heated 
through. Add cheese to top of the nachos and place in oven
again for about 10 minutes or until the cheese is melted and the
nachos are bubbly. Serve on tortilla chips with a spoonful of
sour cream or guacamole on top.
69. LANDSCAPING THE TINY SPACE
Depending on where your tiny house is parked, you may wish to
landscape your immediate area. If you are renting someone's
back yard you can do this by adding planters with bright
beautiful flowers around your house. Consider a removable
window box so you always have a view of gorgeous flowers
when you look outside.
You may create a path to your house using stone pavers or even
wood chips. 
If you are in a space where it is feasible you may wish to plant
some trees.  
70. AN OUTDOOR FIRE PIT
When you have outdoor space it is nice to have a fire pit
available for cooking or gathering. You can always build a simple
rock ring or use a commercial brazier available at your local
home improvement store. Here are the basics of a fire pit that
we built. 
We used stone pavers from the home improvement store. They
are the kinds that are slightly tapered in so you can create
curves. We began by laying down a layer of narrow, gray, open 
bricks in a rough circle to allow for airflow at the base of the
fire. We then stacked two layers of the pavers on top to create
the ring. We poured pea gravel in the bed of the fire pit to
protect the ground. It was a simple job that only took a half a
day. Make sure to level your ground before you begin. You can 
do this by digging a small pit and tamping it down.
Be safe when you build a fire. Don't over build and always have
water available.  
71. HERBS
When you do a lot of cooking it is nice to have fresh herbs at
your disposal. If you have a tiny house, there are some great
ways you can grow them yourself. You can have them as part of
a garden or you can plant them in a small pot that stands on 
your porch. One idea is to plant herbs in tin cans or mason jars 
which can be attached to the side of your house and labeled. I 
like to have basil, cilantro, and rosemary on hand but you can 
choose whatever flavors you like the most. Consider buying a
garden kit or individual potted herbs that you can replant at
your tiny house. The rich green colors, scents, and flavors will
enhance your entire tiny house experience. 
72. GARDENING
Learning to grow your own food is an easy fit within the tiny life
experience. Many families and individuals are planting more of
their own food in gardens and a tiny space is a perfect place to 
do that yourself. It goes hand in hand with self-sufficiency and
sustainability.
As an alternative to a traditional garden try container or raised 
bed gardening to fit within your small yard. 
73. GNOMES: TINY HOUSE PROTECTORS
Meet Chomsky.
Chomsky was a gift from my sister and her family. She felt we
needed a tiny gnome for our tiny house. Our house would not
be a home without Chomsky. I am so passionate about a
gnome's place in a tiny house that I firmly believe everyone who
builds one needs to acquire a gnome. 
The best gnome for a tiny house?
You need to choose a gnome whose scale matches that of your
home. If your home is on wheels make sure there is a secure
place for him to travel indoors. Gnomes come in many colors
and styles. Make sure to include your gnome in all your tiny
house adventures. 
74. OUTDOOR STORAGE
Outdoor storage can be very useful when living in a small space. 
You can use it for all of your tools and outdoor cooking utensils. 
We have two forms of outdoor storage. One is the shelf
beneath the outdoor kitchen. Since we collect all of our water
from the spring, we have room for six 4-gallon containers of
water out there. There is also a bin that holds all the outdoor 
cooking items including grill tools, lighters, fire starter, charcoal
and wood chips for grilling along with dish soap and a brush for
washing dishes. We store the camp oven in its case on this shelf. 
We also built a "basement" below the house. Because our
house is on cement piers, the back of the house sits quite a bit
higher off the ground that the front. We used scrap lumber to 
build stepped platforms between three of the piers to make 
space to store some of our tools, shovels, hedge clippers, camp
chairs and anything else that couldn't be stored indoors. 
75. GARDEN INCINERATOR
When living off the grid something to consider is what is going
to happen to your trash. Rather than sending it to a landfill,
consider building a garden incinerator to dispose of any
unwanted materials that are safe to burn.
The easiest way to do this is to buy a metal garbage can with a
lid. You will also need a round grill grate that will fit in the
bottom and three or four bricks.
Using a dremel tool or similar device, cut ventilation holes all
the way around the bottom of the can. Place the bricks in the
bottom and the grill grate on top of them. You can see how
these ventilation holes will allow air to come up under the fire
through the grate and continue to feed it oxygen. You then
build the fire inside the incinerator. The fire will burn extremely 
hot so it will burn anything from fallen branches to paper trash 
quickly and efficiently.
76. COMPOSTING
Composting seems to go hand in hand with tiny house living. 
Many people who chose this lifestyle do so for the ecological
impacts of reducing our carbon footprint and attempting to live
more sustainably. Composting is one of the easiest ways you
can accomplish this. I know many people living in conventional
homes who also compost. There are two ways to do this.

Enclosed composting. We chose to buy a commercial
composting unit. It is a plastic barrel on a stand that you
can rotate to process the materials inside as they 
compost. We did this primarily because of the
possibility of bears on our mountain. We wanted the
food waste to be concealed so they were less likely to 
attract animals. 

Compost pile. Building an exposed compost pile is just
as easy. You can do this with chicken wire or old 
palates. The key is to keep the compost turning to 
continue to encourage the decomposition of the
materials so it eventually becomes useful for gardening. 
77. OUTDOOR SOLAR LIGHTING
You may want to consider solar lighting options for your
outdoor space. The best part about solar decoration is that you
are able to use them without worrying about electrical or
battery power. Your local home and garden store should have
lots of options.

Garden Bulbs on stakes

Hanging Lanterns

Decorative solar statuary

Landscape stakes
Whatever you decide to do, place your solar decoration with 
care. We decided to use some hanging lanterns placed in the
trees above our outdoor deck to give some ambiance to the
area at night. It wasn't enough to block out the stars, but
offered a little mood lighting after the sun set.
78. NIGHT FALLS AT THE TINY HOUSE
Have you ever sat back and watched bats at dusk? They flit
across the tree line like shadows. It is so peaceful to sit out on a
chair and tilt your head back to watch the bats as the sunset
paints purple across the evening sky.
When the blue fades to purple then to violet and then finally 
the midnight blue of the night sky, only then will you begin to 
see the stars emerge. If it is a clear night, the constellations
sketch across the sky leaving you with beautiful mythological
stories to tell by the camp fire. You might catch a shooting star,
a comet or a satellite if you are diligent enough. 
Have you considered all the reasons you want to live simply?
Now is the time to act on them. 
"Home is the nicest word there is." ―
Laura Ingalls Wilder 
79. FAMILIES
Tiny house living sounds, on paper, like it would be best for only 
one person. I successfully live in a tiny space with my partner
and we love every minute of it. It is quite possible to have a
family in a tiny space. You may wish to have a home slightly 
larger than 120 square feet, but it is possible. Check out these
tiny house families.

Tiny House Family: www.tinyhousefamily.com

Tiny r(E)volution: www.tinyrevolution.us

Treading Tiny: www.treadingtiny.com
Andrew and Crystal Odom along with their daughter Tilly
Madison. Photo courtesy of Tiny r(E)volution. 
80. LOVE IN THE TINY HOUSE
Another common question we get asked is how exactly we can 
live in a tiny space with another person. Matt and I have been 
together since I was 19 years old. We enjoy each other's
company a great deal and we are partners in everything. That
isn't to say we don't disagree or even fight sometimes but we
are pretty good at overcoming obstacles. 
Living in the tiny house, however, was no obstacle. Now I find it
strange to not be in the same room. I was lonely in the tiny
house if I was by myself for extended periods of time. The key 
to living in a tiny space with another person is to really enjoy
that other person's company. 
Privacy is a big issue for some people. I know lots of people who 
have separate bathrooms or even bedrooms in their traditional
homes. Neither of these are things we'd ever done before and
saw no reason to start now. Downsizing into a wee house was a
perfect fit for the way we already lived.
Photo by Andy Kalat
81. TINY ENTERTAINING
Entertaining in the tiny house can take on a lot of forms. Do you
have just two people over for dinner on your outdoor deck? Do
you invite all of your friends for a camping weekend with music
and a campfire? Do you enjoy beer or wine or maybe a delicious
cocktail like the one I describe in idea 84? (No peeking, you'll
get there soon!)
Entertaining in the tiny house certainly requires some planning
and space arrangements depending on your living situation and
experience. However, I think it is important to entertain in your
small space. Living in a different way like this should encourage
us to engage with our lives and our friends and families. 
82. GUESTS IN THE TINY HOUSE
You might think that you can't host people in your tiny house,
but you would be wrong. 
Because we have such a large area of land we often host
camping events. We've had up to 12 people (about 6 tents)
camping on our land. But recently we hosted an event where a 
good friend of ours stayed on the tiny futon in the tiny house. In
the morning, as we made tea and looked out at the mists rising
over the Smokey Mountains, she mused, "This is the way to 
wake up."
You may not be able to host scores of people at your tiny space,
but with a little creativity you can create a memorable
experience for your visitors. 
83. AUTUMN AT THE TINY HOUSE
Wherever you live, this time of year is blazing with reds and
golds and it is as spectacular as you can imagine in the North 
Carolina Mountains. While spring is a time of action and rebirth,
autumn is a time of reflection. For us, because we chose to 
leave the tiny house to travel for the winter, we considered the
previous six months and how much we loved living in this way.
It was bittersweet to leave, but exciting to know that we would 
be coming back as spring blooms on the mountain again. When
you're engaged in the simple life the crisp autumn air and the
explosion of color in the trees can give you a whole new
perspective. Take this time to think about where you've been 
and where you want to go.
84. THE AUTUMNTINI
Even though I usually drink beer, I really wanted to include a
cocktail recipe for the tiny house. This is the kind of drink you
might have while you sit out on the deck watching the blazing
orange sun set below the horizon of red leaves. I remembered 
this recipe we designed for a small Halloween party a few years
ago. I didn't like the idea of all the kitschy horror themed drinks
like "Vampire Blood" or "Witches' Brew," so this is what I came
up with. It does involve making an infusion, so it requires some
advanced preparation.
Add three cinnamon sticks to a bottle
of vodka and store in the freezer. After
about a week or so the flavor will be
amazing. 
In a martini shaker add:
Ice
One shot of Cinnamon infused vodka
One shot of crème de cacao
One shot of Bailey's Irish cream
Shake and pour into a martini glass through the strainer.
Sprinkle ground cinnamon on top. You may also choose to rim 
the glass with cinnamon sugar.
85. KEEPING YOURSELF ENTERTAINED
One of the most common questions we are asked about life in 
the tiny house is how do we keep ourselves from getting bored.
Truth is, I couldn't imagine getting bored in our house on the
mountain since there are so many things to keep me engaged.

Hiking our own land

Hiking nearby trails

Identifying trees, birds, and wildflowers

Watching movies and TV via 4G Internet and a Tablet

Listening to  our iTunes music library

Reading books on Kindle

Relaxing outdoors

Playing guitar and writing music

Being part of our small town community

Exploring other nearby towns

Drinking beer

Enjoying Great Smoky Mountains National Park

Exploring the Blue Ridge Parkway
 Horseback riding at our neighbor's business

Having friends visit from near and far

Cooking

Building campfires

Outdoor adventures like rafting and canoeing

Constructing creative things on our land

Playing outdoor games like whiffle ball, ladder ball,
bocce ball, and archery

Throwing darts
 Gardening (we're not very good at it yet)

Star gazing with the help of computer applications

Playing online computer games with friends all over the
country

Shooting airsoft guns at aluminum cans

Sometimes enjoying all that downtown Asheville has to 
offer
In addition to all of these fun things we've also grown to enjoy
all of the chores that come with our off grid living situation.
When you don't have to worry about driving to an office every 
day, things like carrying water and maintaining trails become
enjoyable rather than tedious. 
86. MUSIC IN THE TINY HOUSE
I love music and I was an early adopter of digital music. I am 
able to keep my entire collection of CDs and all the mixes I've
put together over the years on a little device that fits easily in 
my purse or pocket. 
For listening to music in the tiny house we purchased a small
iPod dock where we can plug in our devices and listen to music
all day. It can run on batteries or plug into our house. It doesn't
use very much energy at all.
Another option would be satellite radio. Most satellite radio 
subscriptions include online streaming. I love listening to 
seasonal music. I also enjoy listening to NPR or other streaming
radio in the tiny house. There is also an old timey device known 
as an FM radio. 
Of course, you could always make your own music.  
87. ROOM FOR ALL THE BOOKS
The best way to have your books in your tiny house is to convert
them all to digital media. I know a lot of people have fears
about getting rid of all of their paper books, but paper books
and the extreme downsizing it takes to make it in a tiny house 
are not compatible. There are many options when it comes to
book readers. 
I use the Kindle app on an iPod Touch so I can hold it in one
hand when I am reading. The other thing I really like about the
Kindle app on the iPod touch is that I can read it in black text on 
a sepia background, which is easy on the eyes in the daylight, or
I can read it in white text on a black background which is perfect
for reading after dark. I have nearly forgotten what reading
lamps are.
I remember a friend loaning me a paperback book recently. As I 
settled into bed for the night, I propped up my pillows and
made myself comfortable. I grabbed the book off the night
stand and...turned off the light. It took me a minute to realize
what was wrong. And this part is going to freak out the
bibliophiles in the audience: I never did read that paperback. I 
went back to the Kindle because it was much more convenient.
The Nook is another popular e-reader. It is produced by Barns
and Noble and available in stores or online. 
Both Barnes and Noble and Amazon offer great selections. I 
often browse the Amazon monthly feature "100 books for 3.99
or less" to get some great stuff. 
The difference between friends and pets is
that friends we allow into our company, 
pets we allow into our solitude. - Robert 
Brault
88. PETS IN TINY SPACES
We might be best known on the internet for our cat, Piglet. She
has become a poster child for pets in tiny houses. Upon moving
into the tiny house Piglet demanded that we make certain 
concessions and we obliged. There are many things to consider
when it comes to having a cat in your tiny space. I imagine dogs
could make things even more complicated with the potential
need for doggy doors and they may never get up to the loft. 
Here are some of the things we needed to consider for Piglet.

Outdoor Spaces

Loft Access

Toys

Litter Box Access
89. OUTDOOR SPACES FOR YOUR FURRY FRIENDS
I am not an advocate of allowing cats outdoors to roam free. I 
think it is too dangerous with disease, cars, strangers, and other
animals to contend with. Piglet, for various reasons, is indoor 
only. But she does like to go outside. We do this by taking her
for "walks" on her leash. Yes, you can leash train a cat if you
start when they are kittens. Often the cat is the one who take
the lead. We say that we are taking Piglet on a "Follow."  This
keeps her active and her mind stimulated. Another option is to 
build an enclosure for the cat to be outside safely. There are
also commercially available cat enclosure options. If you don't
have a fenced yard for your dog you may consider a yard stake
to clip their leash to in order to keep them safe. 
90. LOFT ACCESS FOR PETS
The biggest puzzle we had to piece together upon moving into 
the little house was how to get Piglet up to the loft. We thought
she might learn to use the ladder but she wanted nothing to do 
with it the first time she spent the night there. So, we devised a
series of platforms. 
We used traditional shelving brackets which allowed us to 
adjust the height as Piglet became comfortable with the
arrangement. We installed two shelves that make it easy for
Piglet to jump to the loft. We covered the platforms with pieces
of FLOR carpet tiles, which gives Piglet a soft place to stand but
also provides scratching options for her. FLOR is more durable
than regular carpet and, as an added bonus, is a great scratcher. 
On the first day we showed Piglet how to use the platforms and
she seemed to get it, but that night she didn't come up to the
loft. When I went down in the middle of the night I stopped to
give her a smooch where she was sleeping on the couch and
reminded her that she could use the platforms to get to the
bed. Matt heard our midnight exchange and called her name
from the loft. A light bulb went off in her little head and she
hopped right up. 
Over time, Piglet not only learned how to use those platforms
to get up to the storage loft as well but she also figured out how
to climb the ladder - a daily event that never stops being fun to 
watch.
91. LASER POINTER AND OTHER TOYS
Cats need lots of exercise and in the case of Piglet, who is
exceptionally smart, lots of stimulation to keep them from going
absolutely nuts. No one ever told Piglet she should be nocturnal
so she sleeps with us all night long. We prefer that she not have
a lot of pent up energy before bed or we don't get to sleep right
away. One solution, besides occasional walks on her leash, was
to get a laser pointer. It is a great toy for a small space and very 
entertaining to watch.
Other great toys for small spaces like the tiny house are cat
dancers (toys on a stick or string) and a wrestling toy so she can
grab on, bite, and kick with her back feet. 
92. LITTER BOXES IN SMALL SPACES
Since Piglet is an indoor only cat we needed to make sure she
had a place for her litter box that was out of the way for us but
convenient for her. Our solution was to create a small access
door in one of the tiny closets where we would then place the
litter box. We framed it out so that it was slightly bigger than
the opening of her covered litter box. It is finished the same way
as the rest of the wall with trim around the edges to give it a
complete look. We placed a small piece of the FLOR on the
inside of the framing to keep litter tracking to a minimum and
another just outside the litter box door to provide the same
thing. Piglet immediately understood the process and finds it
quite comfortable. We like the fact that the litter box is out of
the way but we have easy access for cleaning it. 
"Perfection is achieved, not when there is
nothing more to add, but when there is
nothing left to take away." - Antoine de
Saint-Exupe
93. WINDOW TREATMENTS
Window treatments in your tiny house may depend on the area
in which you've built or parked your home. Our home is in the
middle of the woods so we are unconcerned with window
treatments of any sort. However, there are several options you
can consider.

Pull down shades

Mini blinds

Curtains

Shutters

Roman shades
94. Closet Storage
The tiny house that we chose to build, the Tumbleweed Tiny
House Company "Tarleton" design, included two small closets
on either side of the front door. In our configuration, obviously,
Matt gets one and I get the other. Matt built a two tiered shelf
system for both closets. The middle shelf is for shoes and the
top shelves hold stackable organizers from the Container Store. 
We chose a 4 tier system for each closet and we have more
than enough storage space for all of our clothes. 
95. CURTAINS AS CLOSET DOORS
When we were thinking about how to build closet doors for our
tiny house we decided that curtains were the best available
option. Because our house is designed to have a front door in 
the center and two small closets on either side closet doors
seemed not only difficult to build but difficult to use. There
would be times when we both needed to be in our closets with
the doors open. The closet doors were also likely to block the
front door. By installing a header on the top of the closet area
we were able to hide a small tension rod to hang the curtain.
We chose canvas style curtains. This is an attractive and easy 
way to solve the problem of the closet doors.
96. USING COLOR IN YOUR TINY SPACE
Your tiny house is a reflection of your personality. Decorate in a
way that makes you happen. Color is a great way to do that.
Matt and I opted for pine siding inside the house and we
accented it with leaf green and mountain gray accents. There is
so much you can do to customize your tiny house to fit your
personal style. 

Imagine a tiny house in fall colors with darker brown 
wood, reds and oranges. Some people suggest not using
dark colors, but it depends on what you like. It might
make the room look smaller, but it will also make it look 
warmer.

Decorate your tiny house in all white with a few
splashes of red or blue to accent. These surprises will
draw your eyes to them. The Tennessee Tiny Homes
Company uses this technique in their custom buildings. 

Go shabby chic with a rainbow of beautiful reclaimed 
pieces. Some older furniture was built on a smaller scale
and can fit into a tiny house without any modification.
Take a paint brush to anything that needs a little
cleaning up.
97. CEILING TREATMENTS
Some people choose the same treatment for their ceiling as
their walls, but this isn't necessary. Here are some other ideas. 

Decorative Tin Tiles. These tiles can often be found in 
junk shops or salvage yards. They can be painted or
finished or simply epoxied to keep the aged patina they 
will likely have when you find them. You can also buy 
new ones in many styles at your local home
improvement store.

Fabric. You can keep the rafters of the tiny house
exposed and drape the area with decorative fabric to
give the house a gypsy wagon effect. 

Salvage material. Salvage yards and thrift stores are
great places to find ceiling coverings. In such a tiny
space it is worth being creative. You can use anything
from barn wood to old windows.
98. ADDING FABRICS TO YOUR DESIGN
Using fabrics in your tiny home can add a touch of comfort and
class. I briefly mentioned fabrics for ceiling treatments, but
there are many places you can use them in your home. When
thinking about what fabrics make the most sense you will need 
to consider how they will be used. Delicate fabrics make little
sense on seating that will be used daily and harsh wool might
not make the best blanket. Think about
these applications. 

Upholstery

Window Treatments

Bedding

Additional accents such as pillows and throws
Consider your color scheme and what you want to accent. We
decided our color scheme would be green and gray so we
selected a tiny gray sofa and accented it with bright green 
pillows and blankets which match the stain we of our
countertops. 
Other options for fantastic fabrics include

Tie dye

Toile patterns

Velvet

Corduroy and denim

Plaids
99. ADDING RUGS
Many people choose some type of wood flooring for their tiny
home. Depending on how you have constructed your home you
may find that the bare floors are chilly on your toes in the cold 
mornings. Here are two suggestions for rugs in your tiny home.

Throw Rugs
Rugs like this are ubiquitous when you think of supplemental
floor coverings.  Matching a throw rug to your décor is easy and
you can place the rug near your entry way, in your living space,
or in your kitchen. They are easy to move when the floor needs
to be cleaned and are typically machine washable. 

FLOR
FLOR is a carpet tile with a rubberized backing that makes it
easy to install any space. We chose to use this in both of our 
lofts and matched it to the color green that we used 
throughout. We also covered the rungs in our ladder and the
two cat platforms because its surface is excellent for our cat to 
scratch.
100. LIGHTING IN THE TINY HOUSE
It is important to have the right lighting in your tiny house but it
doesn't take nearly as many fixtures as a conventionally sized 
home. The typical types of lighting you want in a home are task 
lighting and overhead lighting. Decorative lighting is not
necessary in such a tiny space unless you really want it.
I would suggest that table lamps are not the best use of space. A 
floor lamp might work depending on where you place it in your
layout. One overhead light, a reading light, a dining table light, a
kitchen light, and a bathroom light should be all you need. If you
don't want to wire those into your tiny home hanging lamps
that plug in would also work. 
Ikea has a great selection of lighting fixtures that will fit
comfortably into a tiny house. The style will depend on your
overall design. Sleek modern fixtures or rustic cabin fixtures
would complement many tiny house styles.
May health, peace, and sweet content be 
yours. - William Shakespeare 
101. DEALING WITH RAIN
There is nothing more relaxing than lying in the loft hearing the
gentle spring rains fall softly on the metal roof. Our ceiling is
well insulated so we don't have that hard water-on-metal sound 
that people associate with tin roofs, although I find that sound 
soothing as well. However, not every rainstorm is gentle. It can 
be a little nerve-wracking to be in a tiny space when a storm is
raging around you. And when that storm hits, there isn't much 
you can do about it. It is worse when you need to get down the
mountain to your car and realized your umbrellas are in that
very car you're heading toward. That is when you improvise. 
Plastic trash bags make for excellent ponchos - though you will
look like a dork. 
Staying safe is important so make sure you have a safety plan 
that fits your tiny house situation. So far we haven't needed to 
take any drastic measures. The biggest problem we've ever had 
was dealing with the mud in the aftermath.
102. MUD!
Mud in your tiny house is no fun but when you live remotely like
we do it is inevitable. If you can, take your wet coat and shoes
off on the porch and leave them there. This isn't always going to
work if the rain is still blowing sideways. Have a small rug inside
the door to set your muddy shoes on when you remove them. 
Constant sweeping will keep the dirt at bay on the floor, but the
only real solution to the mud is to clean the floors on your
hands and knees. Sure you can invest in a mop or one of those
Swiffer floor cleaners but in a tiny space there may not be a
convenient space to store them. Cleaning the floor on your
hands and knees isn't so bad when the space is so small. The
only way to avoid it is to never wear muddy shoes inside. 
I also recommend investing in a good boot scraper for your tiny
porch or steps. This way, even when it isn't raining, you can 
clean off your shoes before stepping inside to take them off. We
have a two-step approach. We use the boot scraper first to 
remove the worst of the dirt from our shoes. Then we wipe our
shoes a second time on the welcome mat before stepping into 
the house. 
103. CLEANING UP AFTER YOURSELF
There is a simple fact of life when you live in a tiny house in the
woods; we have to sweep a lot. Because the house is so small it
is quick and easy to sweep. One of the primary advantages of
downsizing in such an extreme way is that cleaning never takes
very long. No matter how dirty it gets cleaning our kitchen takes
about ten minutes. Cleaning the bathroom is even quicker. We
have a small vacuum but only use it to vacuum the FLOR in the
loft or the stray litter that Piglet tracks out of her box. Cleaning
the tiny house is really simple and can even be relaxing. 
104. DO YOUR CHORES
Depending on how you've built your tiny house or whether or
not you are off the grid, you will have various chores
throughout the day. I have never been a chore driven person. I 
don't enjoy that kind of thing and really; who does? But living in 
the tiny house changed my perspective on some things. Of
course, since we gather our water from a spring and we live off
the grid our chores are quite different from other tiny house
builders, but here is a snapshot of what I do on a typical day.

Fill the water filter. Our Berkey water filter is large and
cumbersome so I had to figure out the best way to fill it. 
I saved a 1 gallon water jug and marked it with the
words "Berkey Water." I fill that up with spring water
and bring it into the house and pour into the Berkey.
The Berkey holds a little more than two gallons at a
time so some days I only have to fill it up with one
gallon and some days I make two trips. 

Empty the gray water. We only have one drain in our 
entire house and it's in the shower. Underneath the
house we put two screws on a floor joist next to the
drain to act as hooks for a 5 gallon bucket. Every day I
take that bucket down and walk over the gray water
reclamation system we built to empty it. Then I replace
the bucket. I try to do this every day so the bucket
doesn't get too full and too heavy to carry.

Regular household tasks. Water related chores are
certainly specific to me, but there are other things that
just about any tiny house owner needs to take care of. 
It is always a good idea to do these things right away so 
stuff doesn't get piled up. Do all of the dishes after
every meal. Sweep the floor every time you see that it
needs it. And make sure to scoop that litter box daily.
105. LAUNDRY
People ask us all the time about how we do laundry in the tiny
house since we don't have running water. We do know tiny
house builders that included small stackable washer and dryer
units in their homes, but we chose not to do this since we didn't
want to plumb the house traditionally. We knew all along that
we planned to use a Laundromat to wash our clothes. 
What we couldn't have imagined was how lucky we would be in 
this arena just because we chose to live near Asheville, NC. 
After moving to the area, we started doing laundry at a small
Laundromat that was reasonably close to our tiny house. I 
found this chore stunningly boring. When we lived in 
conventional homes and apartments I hated laundry. I tended 
to live out of my laundry basket because once something was
washed and dried, I had no desire to fold and put away. The
Laundromat forced me to do this step just to transport the
clean clothes to the tiny house, but I still hated it. 
Then we heard about
 Bar of Soap - a Laundromat bar in North 
Asheville. What an amazing concept! Suddenly we really 
enjoyed laundry. A chore that seemed to take infinite time now
seems to wiz by. We are able to start our washing machines,
order our first beer and enjoy it while talking to folks at the bar. 
When the first beer is done, we can put our clothes in the dryer
and enjoy a second beer. When the beer is done so is our 
laundry. Then we fold up our clothes and head back to the
mountain. I look forward to laundry every week now because it
has become a strangely social activity.
Photo by Jeff Priskorn
Of course, once we are back in the tiny house the clothes get
put away immediately so they don't create clutter.
106. A TINY TOUCH
I love fun little surprises in the tiny house. While most of what
we own is practical there are a few little pieces here and there
that are just placed for fun. 

Tiny Element. My Honda Element is the unsung hero in 
our building journey. I have a little match box car to
match it. This sits in a small recess at the top of the wall. 

Tiny Beer Glasses. Beer Festivals are a favorite pastime
of ours. From each event we have acquired a single 4 
ounce beer taster. We have 5 that we've kept and they 
are sitting on a shelf in the tiny house. Plus, they are
occasionally functional since we use them for wine
glasses.

Gnomes. We have Chomsky outside, but inside we have
a pair of gnomes that were given to us as a gift when we
moved in.

Decorative Plaque. Another friend gave us a small tile
with a Shakespeare quote. We hung this on the door 
inside the tiny house. 
Decorating with a few tiny items brings really makes the tiny
house feel like our home. 
107. REAL LIFE STORAGE IDEAS
It seems like so many of the ideas in this book are about storage
of one sort or another. For tiny house living to be successful
everything in the house needs a proper place. There are many
types of storage you can have in your tiny house and most
people use a combination of things. 

Drawers

Built In shelves

Storage Boxes

Cabinets

Closet organizers
We decided not to use built in drawers for anything in our tiny
house but many other tiny house builders have done this
successfully. Instead we put together two commercially 
available drawer units to fit inside the smaller of our kitchen 
cabinets. In these drawers we store all of our kitchen utensils as
well as our coffee and hot cocoa needs. We also built shelves
into the interior wall studs to store some additional small items. 
Our storage loft has a combination of decorative storage boxes
for additional items. 
108. STAIRCASES VS. LADDER: THE DEBATE OVER LOFTS
There has been much debate within the tiny house community 
over which is better: lofts or first floor bedrooms. You can read 
about the options on so many of the tiny house community 
blogs. There are choices every tiny homeowner needs to make. 
Do you prefer a sturdy staircase over a ladder? Do you have
room for a bed on the first level? Each has its pros and cons
which I want to explore in a little more detail in the following
ideas. 
109. STAIRCASES
If you have a slightly larger tiny house you may want to consider
stairs. Several companies are making stairs that have alternating
steps which keep the staircase narrower to fit in a smaller
space. Additionally you can use stairs that have drawers built
into the steps which will not only solve the staircase issue but
also maximize your storage space. There are also some
innovative corner staircase designs that might work in the right
space. If you have the additional space you may want to 
consider a small spiral staircase.
110. LADDER
If you have a tiny house with a sleeping loft, you will likely need 
a ladder to access it. There are many ways to make your own 
ladder or you could buy something commercially made that will
work well. Our ladder was simple construction from 2X4s and
each rung was covered in the FLOR carpet tiles that we used in 
both lofts. Even our cat has learned to navigate the ladders. It is
also movable so we can access both the sleeping loft and the
storage loft. We put J hooks on the front of each of the lofts and
eye hooks on the ladder so it could be moved back and forth
easily.
Other options for your tiny ladders include:

Metal ladder

Library ladder with wheels to move out of the way of
your living space

Folding ladder like the kind you might use for an attic

Ladder built into a bookshelf
111. THE LOFT
When you build a tiny home you will need to consider how you
want to design your sleeping loft. There were several things that
went into our decision. We used a square awning style window
in the loft gable. We chose to use a futon mattress which fit
perfectly in the space. We also chose to carpet the space using a
product called FLOR. This is what makes our tiny loft very cozy 
and homey.
We ran electrical wiring to outlets on either side of the bed as
well as a three way switch so we could turn the main overhead 
light off from there or the main floor. 
You will spend a lot of time in your loft and you want to make
sure that your experience up there is comfortable. Surround 
yourself with warm comforters and soft pillows. Next thing you 
know, you and your cat will doze there for hours. 
112. THE FIRST FLOOR BEDROOM
When a lot of people look into tiny houses they become
concerned about having to access lofts, especially as they get
older. Others are looking for better accessibility due to a
disability. Many more people might choose tiny living if they 
could have a first floor bed. While the most popular style of tiny
house does feature a loft there are many ways to design small
spaces with first floor access. 
Tiny homes based on trailer designs can be easily made to have
a downstairs bedroom.
Tumbleweed Tiny House Company has a several of styles of
small and tiny homes and cottages with first floor bedrooms. 
You may also wish to consider working with a designer to see
what would be a good fit for you and the space you want to
ultimately build.
A simple solution would also be to use convertible furniture
such as a futon in your primary living space.  
"A good traveler has no fixed plans, and is
not intent on arriving." - Lao Tzu 
113. TINY WINTER TIME
People are surprised to hear that we don't live in our tiny house
over the winter. We specifically chose that path since our new
lives were as much about location independence as they are
about living in a tiny space. Living in a tiny house reduced our
expenses enormously and gave us the flexibility to be where we
want when we want. Because of this, we have the opportunity 
to spend quite a bit of time with family over the holidays and do 
a lot of traveling. 
However, tiny houses can and should be built to sustain the
winters.
After you've insulated and heated the tiny home properly, buy 
yourself a cozy comforter, plenty of flannel pajamas and warm
socks, and you'll be just fine. Imagine sitting in your tiny space
with a cup of hot cocoa watching the snow drift to the ground.
114. HOW TO HEAT YOUR TINY HOUSE
Heating the tiny house is a cause for great debate among 
builders. There are so many potential solutions that there really 
isn't one best way to do it. We chose not to install a
conventional heat source directly into our home. Our home is in 
the south and our winters are mild and short. Rather than 
installing a permanent heater, we use a portable ventless
propane heater that is designed for camping. Because our
house is well insulated, and tiny, it works well to heat the space.
We have plenty of safety measures in place including a carbon
monoxide detector and oxygen sensor. We always keep a
couple of windows cracked to ensure adequate ventilation.
However, most tiny house builders chose to use some form of
built in heating. Tiny homes use very little energy to heat
because of their size and if they are insulated well they will trap 
the heat for a long time. Safety is important for all heating
options so be sure to do your homework before you install
anything. Some options for heaters include:

Wood stove. This is a great source of heat for a small
space because you won't use much wood. If your tiny
house is in a natural setting like ours you may have an 
unlimited supply. There are very tiny wood stoves
available that can easily fit within a small space. 

Propane stove. The Tumbleweed Tiny House Company
suggests a product called the Newport Propane
Fireplace designed specifically for boats and small
homes. It is a cozy looking little device that puts out
quite a bit of heat and gives you a fireplace-like
ambiance. 

Electric Space Heaters. There are several types of
heaters that would work if you have access to the
electrical grid. Keep in mind, however, that when solar
power converts anything to heat it uses much more
energy and becomes less efficient. 

Infrared Heater. This is another type of electric
powered heater that is very efficient compared to their
radiant counterparts. Several models are considered 
"Eco" for up to 500 square feet. 
115. INSULATING THE TINY SPACE
It is important to insulate your tiny house well. Regardless of
where in the world you've built it will need to stay cool in the
summer and warm in the winter. The right insulation can make
all the difference. There are several options.

Extruded foam board

Expanded foam board

Fiberglass insulation

Denim or cotton insulation

Blown insulation
Determine what works best for your tiny home and be sure to 
install it properly.
116. HAPPY HOLIDAYS
Matt and I love to decorate for the holidays. Before moving into 
the tiny house we decorated every room of our conventional
house. We would start on the first of October and keep the
Halloween decorations up until we could replace them with 
Thanksgiving decorations. As soon as Thanksgiving was over, the
traditional winter holiday decorations came out. Since moving
into the tiny house we've had to scale back but we aren't willing
to give up the tradition.
Halloween is our favorite so we
have amassed a large collection of
Halloween decorations over the
years. Those were some of the
hardest things to get rid of when we began to downsize. For the
tiny house in the woods we like a more rustic look. We decorate
our Folk N' Ale with bales of hay, scarecrows and pumpkins. 
Spooky lights add a creepy touch to the season.
For the winter holidays, we have a tiny tinsel
tree decorated with beautiful hand blown glass
ornaments. Each ornament represents a
different aspect of ancient Greek mythology -
something that we are both very interested in . It
fits up on the storage loft and the white lights
practically illuminate the entire house. 
117. JERK SHRIMP AND NOODLES
For tiny living and outdoor cooking it is great to have simple
recipes with two or three ingredients. For this meal all you need 
are shrimp, a Jamaican jerk marinade, and angel hair pasta.
I started by marinating the shrimp in the jerk sauce for probably 
about `10 minutes or so while I boiled the angel hair. Once the
angel hair was done, I drained it and set it aside. I threw the
shrimp in a skillet. I chose frozen cooked shrimp but you could 
use either cooked or raw - just make sure the shrimp is nice and
pink and you'll know it is done. 
After I was happy with the shrimp, I threw the pasta in the pan 
to cook in the sauce, tossing it with tongs to get it coated. If you
want a little extra kick, which I do sometimes, you can add some
crushed red pepper flakes as well.
It won't take long for the pasta to be coated with the sauce and
once that is done, the dish is ready. It is super quick and really 
easy to prepare, even in a very tiny off the grid kitchen.
118. TRAVELING
The beauty of tiny living is simplifying your life enough to have
all the tools you need to enjoy it on your own terms. One of the
benefits of tiny living for us is the ability to travel. 
If you have a house on a foundation like ours you can't take it
with you. Instead we live our lives in a location independent
way. By having a flexible freelance job that I can do from 
anywhere in the world I am able to go wherever I want
whenever I want and I'm still able to generate an income. In the
summer we spent three weeks traveling, including a week at a
camping festival. And we spent time with family and friends in 
Michigan for two months over the holidays. 
If your tiny house is on a trailer it can join you on your
adventures. Many campgrounds allow tiny houses but some do 
not. Do your research ahead of time to make sure that you are
welcome. If you have friends or family all over the country you
may be able to take your tiny house with you as you visit. Keep 
in mind that a tiny house isn't designed the same way as a
travel trailer so tiny house builders don't recommend driving
with it frequently. If you do want to move your tiny house on a
regular basis you may need to do some additional work to keep 
it road worthy. 
119. SIMPLE LIVING
Simple living isn't just about living in a tiny space. This is
something that everyone can do wherever they are. Many of
the tips we've covered already are a great way to change the
way you interact with your living space right now. 
Many aspects of simple living became more important once I
moved into the tiny house. They include:

Location Independence. As I mentioned, this is the
ability to earn a living from anywhere in the world.

Simple eating. Farmer's markets and other changes in 
our food buying habits made our entire eating 
experience very different. This means that we shop
more often but eat more healthy foods. 

Less stuff. The fewer things I have to worry about the
less stressed I am. The formula is simple. This doesn't
mean I want to discard everything. In fact, some devices
make the tiny life much easier. But overall we have a
one in, one out policy meaning we have to discard 
anything we are no longer using as soon as we have the
urge to replace it. 
120. TINY HOUSE COMMUNITY
One of my dreams for the future of tiny homes is to see more
people create tiny house communities. There are many ways to
make this possible. 
Imagine getting together with some of your best friends or
members of your family. Pool your resources to buy several
acres of land and build individual tiny homes. Depending on the
dynamics of your group you may wish to share some spaces
such as kitchen, dining, and recreational areas. 
Another option is to build a tiny house rental community. Many
cities are starting to allow
pocket neighborhoods. 
These infill developments
could be an answer to urban 
density issues throughout
the country.
What about an intentional
community? Back in the 60s
many people would have called this a commune, but the
concept has changed. Develop a community based on shared 
values and centered around cooperation. This kind of
community space is where you can really get to know your
neighbors. Maybe you can start a small community garden 
where everyone can pitch in and take some of the harvest.
Maybe it is a great way to have an artist community. The
possibilities are endless. 
We were born to unite with our fellow 
men, and to join in community with the 
human race.
-- Cicero
120 IDEAS AND BEYOND
Most of the ideas in this book were pulled from my own 
experience but there is a flourishing Tiny House community all
over the United States and throughout the world. Many of
these people share their own unique stories in books, videos,
and websites.
For more inspiration here are some other tiny house blogs that I
recommend. 

Tiny r(E)volution: www.tinyrevolution.us

The Tiny Life: www.thetinylife.com

Tiny House Talk: www.tinyhousetalk.com

Tiny House Listings: www.tinyhouselistings.com

Rowdy Kittens: www.rowdyskittens.com

Smalltopia: www.loganblairsmith.com

Tiny House News: www.tinyhousenews.info

Tiny House Ontario: www.tinyhouseontario.com

Tiny House Swoon: www.tinyhouseswoon.com

Relax Shacks: www.relaxshacks.blogspot.com

Tumbleweed Tiny House Company:
www.tumbleweedtinyhouses.com

Four Lights Tiny House Company:
www.fourlightstinyhouses.com

Mini Motives: www.minimotives.com

Treading Tiny: www.treadingtiny.com

Trying on Tiny: www.tryingontiny.com

Tiny Tack House: www.chrisandmalissa.com
The list above is filled with great stories, advice, tips, and tricks. 
Still, there is only so much reading you can do. Eventually you
just have to build. The most important step to any of this is to 
start. Here is where I tell you to put down this book and go live
your dream, whatever it looks like.
I would rather regret the things that I
have done than the things that I have not.
--Lucille Ball
ABOUT THE AUTHOR
Laura M. LaVoie is a freelance writer and blogger living in a 120 
Square Foot Cabin with her partner, Matt, and their Sphynx cat,
Piglet. Laura and Matt built the tiny house with their own hands
after researching several types of alternative building
techniques including Cordwood Masonry and Earthships. They 
decided on a small house because the Tiny House Movement
matched their values and lifestyle perfectly. They began 
building the house in the mountains of North Carolina in 2009
and construction took three years as they lived and worked in 
Atlanta and would travel and build on weekends. Now Laura,
Matt, and Piglet live
and work in the tiny
house full time. 
Follow their blog Life
in 120 Square Feet at
www.120squarefeet.
com for more about
their tiny lifestyle.
The tiny house has
been featured in Huffington Post, CNN iReport, The Laurel of
Asheville and a number of tiny house community websites
including the Tumbleweed Tiny House website.
When not building or living in a tiny house, Laura enjoys
brewing and drinking craft beer and spending time in downtown 
Asheville, NC. 















