























Copyright © 2014 by McGraw-Hill Education.  All rights reserved. Except as permitted under the United States Copyright Act of 1976, no part of this publication may be reproduced or distributed in any form or by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of the publisher, with the exception that the program listings may be entered, stored, and executed in a computer system, but they may not be reproduced for publication.
ISBN: 978-0-07-182758-4MHID:       0-07-182758-7
The material in this eBook also appears in the print version of this title: ISBN: 978-0-07-182759-1, MHID: 0-07-182759-5.
eBook conversion by codeMantraVersion 1.0
All trademarks are trademarks of their respective owners. Rather than put a trademark symbol after every occurrence of a trademarked name, we use names in an editorial fashion only, and to the benefit of the trademark owner, with no intention of infringement of the trademark. Where such designations appear in this book, they have been printed with initial caps.
McGraw-Hill Education books are available at special quantity discounts to use as premiums and sales promotions or for use in corporate training programs. To contact a representative, please visit the Contact Us pages at www.mhprofessional.com.
TOEFL is a registered trademark of Educational Testing Service, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product.
 
FLASHCARD APP
Sets of flashcards that supplement this book can be found in the McGraw-Hill Education Language Lab app.
Please go to mhlanguagelab.com for details on how to access this free app, which is available for Apple and Android tablet and mobile devices, as well as for computer via web browser.
 
TERMS OF USE
This is a copyrighted work and McGraw-Hill Education and its licensors reserve all rights in and to the work. Use of this work is subject to these terms. Except as permitted under the Copyright Act of 1976 and the right to store and retrieve one copy of the work, you may not decompile, disassemble, reverse engineer, reproduce, modify, create derivative works based upon, transmit, distribute, disseminate, sell, publish or sublicense the work or any part of it without McGraw-Hill Education's prior consent. You may use the work for your own noncommercial and personal use; any other use of the work is strictly prohibited. Your right to use the work may be terminated if you fail to comply with these terms.
THE WORK IS PROVIDED "AS IS." McGRAW-HILL EDUCATION AND ITS LICENSORS MAKE NO GUARANTEES OR WARRANTIES AS TO THE ACCURACY, ADEQUACY OR COMPLETENESS OF OR RESULTS TO BE OBTAINED FROM USING THE WORK, INCLUDING ANY INFORMATION THAT CAN BE ACCESSED THROUGH THE WORK VIA HYPERLINK OR OTHERWISE, AND EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM ANY WARRANTY, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. McGraw-Hill Education and its licensors do not warrant or guarantee that the functions contained in the work will meet your requirements or that its operation will be uninterrupted or error free. Neither McGraw-Hill Education nor its licensors shall be liable to you or anyone else for any inaccuracy, error or omission, regardless of cause, in the work or for any damages resulting therefrom. McGraw-Hill Education has no responsibility for the content of any information accessed through the work. Under no circumstances shall McGraw-Hill Education and/or its licensors be liable for any indirect, incidental, special, punitive, consequential or similar damages that result from the use of or inability to use the work, even if any of them has been advised of the possibility of such damages. This limitation of liability shall apply to any claim or cause whatsoever whether such claim or cause arises in contract, tort or otherwise.







This book is dedicated to my late father, Richard J. Zwier, an intelligent, unselfish man.
And to my dear friend Sepideh Farsai, who developed a keen command of both the vocabulary and idioms of English.
The publisher would like to dedicate this second edition to the late Lynn Stafford-Yilmaz.








Contents
Introduction
Six Quick Hints for Success on the TOEFL® Test
Nature
LESSON 1 Food Crops
LESSON 2 Disaster
LESSON 3 Evolution and Migration
LESSON 4 Petroleum Alternatives
Science
LESSON 5 Time Efficiency
LESSON 6 Ancient Life
LESSON 7 Computers
LESSON 8 Energy
Mind and Body
LESSON 9 Memory
LESSON 10 Spirituality
LESSON 11 Illness
LESSON 12 Surgery
LESSON 13 Ghosts
Society
LESSON 14 Anthropology
LESSON 15 Social Inequality
LESSON 16 Expertise
LESSON 17 Military Operations
LESSON 18 War and Conquest
LESSON 19 History
Money
LESSON 20 Financial Systems
LESSON 21 Wealth and Social Class
LESSON 22 Personal Property
LESSON 23 Employment
LESSON 24 International Trade
Government and Justice
LESSON 25 Politics
LESSON 26 A Reasonable Doubt
LESSON 27 The Police
LESSON 28 Investigating Crimes
LESSON 29 Government Corruption
LESSON 30 Crimes at Sea
LESSON 31 The War on Drugs
Relationships
LESSON 32 Family Relationships
LESSON 33 Friendship
LESSON 34 Passion
LESSON 35 Negative Emotions
LESSON 36 Parenting
Culture
LESSON 37 Social Rebels
LESSON 38 Painting and Sculpture
LESSON 39 The Written Word
LESSON 40 Entertainment
LESSON 41 Risky Fashions
 
400 Must-Have Words for the TOEFL® Test
















Introduction
This book is a revised and expanded new edition of the best-selling McGraw-Hill's 400 Must-Have Words for the TOEFL. The readings have been updated, and an entirely new chapter has been added. Like the first edition, this book will help you improve your score on the Internet-based TOEFL (iBT). Vocabulary is extremely important in a good iBT performance, so this is a very valuable study guide.
This book has been designed for easy use as a self-study guide. You can complete each chapter in one sitting of about 25 minutes. McGraw-Hill Education: 400 Must-Have Words for the TOEFL®, 2e, is also highly effective in the TOEFL-prep classroom.
Each chapter begins with a list of 10 target words. They are defined and used in simple sentences. Usage tips are given for many words. If there are other commonly used parts of speech related to the word, those are listed too.
Following the definitions, the target words are practiced in three exercises. TOEFL Prep I and TOEFL Prep II give straightforward practice in a variety of easy exercise styles. The last exercise, TOEFL Success, includes a TOEFL-style reading followed by one or two authentic TOEFL-style questions. Most TOEFL Success readings incorporate all 10 target words, and most also include an additional bonus structure. Each chapter ends with an answer key so you can check your work.
As an extra feature, this book includes a special front section called "Six Quick Hints for Success on the TOEFL." These general test-taking strategies are crucial to TOEFL success.
After the publication of McGraw-Hill's: 400 Must-Have Words for the TOEFL, we suffered a sad loss in the death of Lynn Stafford-Yilmaz, one of this book's coauthors. Lynn was a superb writer and a dedicated teacher, always eager to help her students forge ahead in their studies and preparation for tests. We fondly remember Lynn in this new edition. She would have been very proud to see how many students have been helped by the advice and practice this book provides.
We wish you all the best in your vocabulary study for the TOEFL test.








Six Quick Hints for Success on the TOEFL® Test
1. Try to understand a reading or lecture as a whole. Unlike earlier versions of the TOEFL, the new version tests whether you can see how ideas interact in a longer reading.
2. Take notes. Especially in the listening section, you will need notes to remember what you have heard. Note-taking will also help you concentrate. You can practice by taking notes of news stories, documentaries, or lectures.
3. Study grammar in context, not by itself. Unlike earlier versions of the TOEFL, the new version has no grammar section. Your knowledge of grammar is useful in helping you understand the readings and lectures, not in answering grammar-specific questions.
4. Practice writing essays that express your opinion on a topic. The writing section of the 2005 TOEFL includes questions asking for your opinion on various daily topics. These are timed. Practice writing under a time limit, shaping your thoughts into a well-rounded essay.
5. Build up your academic vocabulary. Your ability to comprehend reading passages rests largely on your academic vocabulary. Build your vocabulary by reading, making flash cards, and writing sentences using new words in context. A strong vocabulary will help you not only in your reading comprehension, but also in listening, writing, and speaking.
6. Commit your attention to the test. Some of the topics covered in the test may not actually interest you. Still, your focused energy will improve your test score. Agree with yourself not to think about other topics during the test. Force yourself to keep your attention on the tested material.








Nature








LESSON 1
Food Crops
Target Words
1. abandon
2. adversely
3. aggregate
4. cultivation
5. fertilize
6. intensify
7. irrigation
8. obtain
9. photosynthesis
10. precipitation
Definitions and Samples
 
1. abandon v.   To leave; to give up
To save their lives, the sailors had to abandon the sinking ship.
Parts of speech   abandonment n
 
2. adversely adv.   In a harmful way; negatively
Excessive rainfall early in the spring can adversely affect the planting of crops.
Usage tips   Adversely is often followed by affect.
Parts of speech   adversity n, adverse adj
 
3. aggregate adj.   Gathered into or amounting to a whole
It is impossible to judge last year's performance without knowing the aggregate sales numbers.
Usage tips   Aggregate is often followed by a term like sum, total, or numbers.
Parts of speech   aggregate v, aggregate n
 
4. cultivation n.   Preparing the land to grow crops; improvement for agricultural purposes
With the development of land cultivation, hunters and gatherers were able to settle in one place.
Parts of speech   cultivate v
 
5. fertilize v.   To supply with nourishment for plants by adding helpful
substances to the soil
Tomatoes grow well here because the farmers fertilize their soil with nitrogen.
Parts of speech   fertilizer n, fertilization n
 
6. intensify v.   To increase in power; to act with increased strength
Jacob's long absence from Rose intensified his certainty that he should marry her.
Parts of speech   intensification n, intense adj, intensity n
 
7. irrigation n.   The supplying of water to dry land
In dry areas of the country, you can see ditches all over the farmland for irrigation.
Parts of speech   irrigate v
 
8. obtain v.   To gain possession of; to get
After a series of difficult interviews, he finally was able to obtain the job.
 
9. photosynthesis n.   The process by which green plants make their own food by combining water, salts, and carbon dioxide in the presence of light.
Oxygen is a by-product of the process of photosynthesis.
Parts of speech   photosynthesize v
 
10. precipitation n.   Water that falls to the Earth's surface
In the Pacific Northwest, the high level of precipitation ensures rich, green plant life.
TOEFL Prep I   Complete each sentence by filling in the blank with the best word from the list. Change the form of the word if necessary. Use each word only once.
abandoned     precipitation     cultivation     fertilize     photosynthesis
1. Through _________, green plants create organic materials with the help of chlorophyll.
2. The coastal city gets half its _________ during the rainy months of January, February, and March.
3. Farmers use various methods of land _________.
4. When they heard the hull crack, all but two of the sailors __________ ship.
5. Inexperienced gardeners may not realize how important it is that they __________ their plants.
TOEFL Prep II   Find the word or phrase that is closest in meaning to the opposite of each word in the left-hand column. Write the letter in the blank.

TOEFL Success   Read the passage to review the vocabulary you have learned. Answer the questions that follow.
In countries like Niger and Mauritania, the cultivation of land has changed little in the past several centuries. Additionally, these countries' mono-modal rainfall pattern brings precipitation for only three months during the year. As a result, food production doesn't nearly meet demand.

Bonus Structure—As a result means "therefore," for this reason."

Several agencies and organizations have intensified their efforts to increase the productivity of land in these countries. They have introduced new strains of seed, improved irrigation techniques, and introduced new methods of fertilization and soil management. With ample sunlight for photosynthesis and modern irrigation techniques, sustainable farming techniques should allow farmers to boost aggregate production in order to meet demand.
Still, crop revitalization faces an unexpected adversary: institutional incompetence. Where crop specialists have convinced individual farmers to abandon old farming techniques in place of new, they can't readily obtain the governmental cooperation they need. The biggest hurdles are political corruption, incompetence, and the absence of a marketing infrastructure.
 
1. In this passage, the word adversary is closest in meaning to
a. friend
b. helper
c. enemy
d. leader
 
2. In the last paragraph, the word they refers to
a. crop specialists
b. farmers
c. farming techniques
d. adversaries
 
Lesson 1   Food Crops
TOEFL Prep I      1. photosynthesis 2. precipitation 3. cultivation 4. abandoned 5. fertilize
TOEFL Prep II    1. c 2. a 3. d 4. b 5. e
TOEFL Success   1. c 2. a







LESSON 2
Disaster
Target Words
1. anticipate
2. catastrophic
3. collide
4. eruption
5. famine
6. flood
7. impact
8. persevere
9. plunge
10. unleash
Definitions and Samples
 
1. anticipate v.   To expect; to sense something before it happens
By placing sensors in earthquake-prone areas, scientists can anticipate some tremors in time to warn the public.
Parts of speech    anticipation n, anticipatory adj
 
2. catastrophic adj.   Extremely harmful; causing financial or physical ruin
The architect died in a catastrophic elevator accident.
Parts of speech   catastrophe n, catastrophically adv
 
3. collide v.   To come together with great or violent force
As usual, their holiday was ruined when their in-laws' views on politics collided with their own.
Parts of speech   collision n
 
4. eruption n.   A sudden, often violent, outburst
The eruption of Mount St. Helens in 1980 caused 57 deaths and immeasurable change to the face of the mountain.
Usage tips   Eruption is often followed by an of phrase.
Parts of speech   erupt v
 
5. famine n.   Severe hunger; a drastic food shortage
The potato famine in Ireland in the mid-nineteenth century caused large numbers of Irish people to emigrate to America.
 
6. flood n.   An overflowing of water; an excessive amount
The constant rain and poor drainage system caused a flood in town.
The political party sent out a flood of letters criticizing their opponents.
Parts of speech   flood v
 
7. impact n.   A strong influence
The speech about the importance of education made an impact on me.
Usage tips   Impact is usually followed by on or of.
Parts of speech   impact v
 
8. persevere v.   To keep going, despite obstacles or discouragement; to maintain a purpose
The hikers persevered despite the bad weather and the icy trail.
Parts of speech   perseverance n
 
9. plunge v.   To go down suddenly; to decrease by a great amount in a short time
He jumped off the diving board and plunged into the pool.
The value of the company's stock plunged after its chief executive was arrested.
Usage tips   Plunge is often followed by an into phrase.
Parts of speech   plunge n
 
10. unleash v.   To release a thing or an emotion
When they saw the strange man on their property, they unleashed their dogs.
He is from such an unemotional family, he will never learn to unleash his feelings.
TOEFL Prep I Find the word or phrase that is closest in meaning to the opposite of each word in the left-hand column. Write the letter in the blank.

TOEFL Prep II Circle the word that best completes each sentence.
1. Residents of Hawaii must accept the possibility of a volcanic (eruption / perseverance).
2. Years after the accident, she was finally able to (anticipate / unleash) her feelings of anger.
3. Houses along the river often face (famine / flooding) during the rainy season.
4. Many people think it is cruel to (collide / plunge) live lobsters into boiling water.
5. A well-written essay should make some kind of (catastrophe / impact) on its readers.
TOEFL Success Read the passage to review the vocabulary you have learned. Answer the questions that follow.
Nature challenges humans in many ways, through disease, weather, and famine. For those living along the coast, one unusual phenomenon capable of catastrophic destruction is the tsunami (pronounced "tsoo-NAH-mee"). A tsunami is a series of waves generated in a body of water by an impulsive disturbance. Earthquakes, landslides, volcanic eruptions, explosions, and even the impact of meteorites can generate tsunamis. Starting at sea, a tsunami slowly approaches land, growing in height and losing energy through bottom friction and turbulence. Still, just like any other water waves, tsunamis unleash tremendous energy as they plunge onto the shore. They have great erosion potential, stripping beaches of sand, undermining trees, and flooding hundreds of meters inland. They can easily crush cars, homes, vegetation, and anything they collide with. To minimize the devastation of a tsunami, scientists are constantly trying to anticipate them more accurately and more quickly. Because many factors come together to produce a life-threatening tsunami, foreseeing them is not easy. Despite this, researchers in meteorology persevere in studying and predicting tsunami behavior.

Bonus Structure—Despite this means "even so; regardless."

 
1. Which sentence best expresses the essential information of this passage?
a. Tsunamis could become a new source of usable energy in the next hundred years.
b. Tsunamis do more damage to the land than flooding.
c. Tsunamis can have an especially catastrophic impact on coastal communities.
d. Scientists can predict and track tsunamis with a fair degree of accuracy, reducing their potential impact.
 
2. In the first sentence, why does the author mention weather?
a. because tsunamis are caused by bad weather
b. because tsunamis are more destructive than weather phenomena
c. as an example of a destructive natural force
d. as an introduction to the topic of coastal storms 
 
Lesson 2   Disaster
TOEFL Prep I      1. b 2. c 3. e 4. a 5. d
TOEFL Prep II    1. eruption 2. unleash 3. flooding 4. plunge 5. impact
TOEFL Success   1. c 2. c







LESSON 3
Evolution and Migration
Target Words
1. adapt
2. diverse
3. evolve
4. feature
5. generation
6. inherent
7. migration
8. physical
9. process
10. survive
Definitions and Samples
 
1. adapt v.   To adjust to the circumstances; to make suitable
Dinosaurs could not adapt to the colder temperatures.
The teacher adapted the exercises for his more advanced students.
Usage tips   Adapt is often followed by to.
Parts of speech   adaptation n, adapter n, adaptable adj
 
2. diverse n.   Various; showing a lot of differences within a group
India is one of the most linguistically diverse countries in the world.
Usage tips   An -ly adverb (e.g., linguistically) often comes before diverse.
Parts of speech   diversify v, diversity n, diversification n
 
3. evolve v.   To develop; to come forth
Modern-day sharks evolved from their ancestor Eryops, which lived more than 200 million years ago.
Usage tips   Evolve is often followed by into or from.
Parts of speech   evolution n, evolutionist n, evolutionary adj
 
4. feature n.   Part, characteristic
The best feature of this car is its heated seats.
Usage tips   Feature is often followed by of.
Parts of speech   feature v
 
5. generation n.   A group of people born at about the same time
As older managers retired, a new generation of leaders took control of the company.
Usage tips   Before generation, an adjective like new, next, earlier, or older is common. Generation is often followed by of.
Parts of speech   generational adj
 
6. inherent adj.   Naturally characteristic; always found within something, because it's a basic part of that thing
No job can be interesting all the time. Boredom is inherent in any kind of work.
Usage tips   Inherent is often followed by in.
Parts of speech   inherently adv
 
7. migration n.   Movement from one place to another by a group of people or animals
The migration of farm workers from one state to the next depends primarily on the harvest.
Usage tips   Migration is often followed by to or from.
Parts of speech   migrate v, migrant n, migratory adj
 
8. physical adj.   Related to the body; related to materials that can be seen or felt
Because of the shape of its throat, an ape does not have the physical ability to speak.
The mountains form a physical barrier between the west and the east.
Usage tips   Physical usually comes before the noun it describes.
Parts of speech   physically adv
 
9. process n.   A series of steps leading to a result
To get a good job, most people go through a long process of letter-writing and interviews.
Usage tips   Process is often followed by of plus the -ing form of a verb.
Parts of speech   proceed v, process v
 
10. survive v.   To continue living (despite some danger or illness)
After getting lost in the mountains, Gordon survived by eating wild plants and catching fish.
Usage tips   Survive is often followed by a phrase with by.
Parts of speech   survivor n, survival n
TOEFL Prep I Find the word or phrase that is closest in meaning to the opposite of each word in the left-hand column. Write the letter in the blank.

TOEFL Prep II Choose the word from the list that is closest in meaning to the underlined part of each sentence. Write it in the blank.

TOEFL Success Read the passage to review the vocabulary you have learned. Answer the questions that follow.
The migration from Asia to North America across the Bering Strait (perhaps by land bridge) was a monumental event in human history. The process of overspreading the Americas took more than 1,000 years, or 30 generations. This might seem to confirm common sense—that slow travel was inherent in any great migration without wheeled vehicles across unknown terrain. Further thought shows that this process was remarkably fast—about 10 north-south miles per year, on average. The Americas were populated at an astounding pace, when one considers the physical limits of the human body and the physical features of the American continents. Legs of humans can move only so fast under the best of circumstances, and they work even slower over mountain passes or deserts. Populations spread through the diverse regions of the Americas (grasslands, eastern forests, coastal swamps) and needed to adapt to their new environments. The migrants' lifestyle had evolved over the years to that of professional nomads ensuring that they would find the resources needed to survive.

Bonus Structure—Further thought means "looking deeper; thinking more."

 
1. Which sentence best expresses the essential information in this passage?
a. Human migration across the Bering Strait was remarkably slow.
b. Physical limitations made migration across the Bering Strait almost impossible.
c. Humans readily adapted to life in the Bering Strait.
d. The migration through the Americas was surprisingly fast.
 
2. In this passage, the word monumental is closest in meaning to
a. disastrous
b. evolving
c. important
d. physical
 
Lesson 3   Evolution and Migration
TOEFL Prep I      1. e 2. d 3. b 4. a 5. c
TOEFL Prep II    1. diverse 2. process 3. survive 4. generation 5. evolved
TOEFL Success   1. a 2. c







LESSON 4
Petroleum Alternatives
Target Words
1. constraint
2. contamination
3. deplete
4. dispose of
5. elementally
6. emission
7. extinction
8. reservoir
9. shrink
10. stable
Definitions and Samples
 
1. constraint n.   Something that restricts thought or action
The constraints of military life kept Eileen from seeing Private Morris more than once a month.
Parts of speech   constrain v
 
2. contamination n.   Being made less clean by a germ or hazardous substance
The contamination in the river came from the factory located just upstream.
Parts of speech   contaminate v, contaminant n
 
3. deplete v.   To greatly decrease the supply of a resource or material
The prolonged war depleted the country's national treasury.
Parts of speech   depletion n
 
4. dispose of v.   To throw away; to get rid of; to kill
She disposed of her unwanted possessions before moving.
The tyrant cruelly disposed of all his enemies.
Usage tips   Dispose of should be learned as a unit. In this meaning, dispose does not occur without of.
Parts of speech   disposal n, disposable adj
 
5. elementally adv.   In terms of elements; basically
Elementally, coal and diamonds are the same.
Parts of speech   element n, elemental adj
 
6. emission n.   Sending out from a small space into the general environment; a substance discharged into the air
The Environmental Protection Agency regulates the emission of pollutants into the air.
Usage tips   Emission is usually followed by an of phrase.
Parts of speech   emit v
 
7. extinction n.   Complete disappearance; the end of existence
Human beings have caused the extinction of many other species.
Usage tips   Extinction implies an absolute end; an extinct species is gone and will not reappear (except if genetic scientists succeed with experimental "de-extinction" techniques).
Parts of speech   extinct adj
 
8. reservoir n.   A place where a liquid is collected and stored
Terrorists threatened to put poison in the town's reservoir.
Parts of speech   reserve v
 
9. shrink v.   To become reduced in size, amount, or value
If you dry your clothes on the "high heat" setting, they may shrink.
Parts of speech   shrinkage n, shrinkable adj
 
10. stable adj.   Firm and dependable; showing little change
He fell because the ladder wasn't stable.
Parts of speech   stability n, stably adv, stabilize v
TOEFL Prep I Find the word that is closest in meaning to the opposite of each word in the left-hand column. Write the letter in the blank.

TOEFL Prep II Circle the word that best completes each sentence.
1. The (constraints / contamination) of being in prison made her hate society even more.
2. A recognition that the Earth is round was one of the (elemental / shrunken) advances in thought during the time period.
3. Mother Teresa, who helped the poorest of the poor, had a great (disposal / reservoir) of love within her spirit.
4. Automobiles are responsible for some (emissions / extinction) of greenhouse gases.
5. By the end of the storm, the hikers had (depleted / reserved) even their emergency stores.
TOEFL Success Read the passage to review the vocabulary you have learned. Answer the question that follows.
Human consumption of fossil fuels is expected to fully deplete the Earth's crude oil reserves by the year 2060. As underground reservoirs of oil continue to shrink, we have no choice but to find alternatives. One promising source, with much cleaner emissions, is called bio-diesel. Biodiesel is often made from soybean oil, although it can be made from any vegetable oil that is not elementally different from soy. Bio-diesel can even be made from used cooking oils that homes or restaurants would otherwise dispose of. Bio-diesel can be used without constraint in any vehicle that runs on diesel—no modifications are needed. Presently, diesel engines can take up to 20 percent soy in their soy-diesel blend. As the need for bio-diesel increases and the technology improves, we may soon witness the extinction of the fossil-fueled vehicle. This is good news for the planet, as bio-diesel is a more stable source of energy than petroleum, and it reduces contamination of our air and water.

Bonus Structure—One promising source signals the point of this paragraph.

_______________________________________
An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the three answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. In each blank, write the letter of one of your choices.
 

 
a. Humans have shown little self-restraint in their consumption of fossil fuels.
b. Underground reservoirs of oil will soon be depleted.
c. Bio-diesel burns cleaner than fossil fuels.
d. Bio-diesel comes from a more stable source than petroleum.
e. Restaurants can save disposal fees on used cooking oil.
 
Lesson 4   Petroleum Alternatives
TOEFL Prep I      1. c 2. e 3. d 4. a 5. b
TOEFL Prep II    1. constraints 2. elemental 3. reservoir 4. emission 5. depleted
TOEFL Success   a, c, d







Science








LESSON 5
Time Efficiency
Target Words
1. adjust
2. arbitrary
3. denominator
4. exponentially
5. infinitesimal
6. maximize
7. parallel
8. proportion
9. rate
10. sequence
Definitions and Samples
 
1. adjust v.   To change; to get accustomed to something
Travelers are advised to adjust their watches before arriving in the new time zone.
Parts of speech   adjustment n, adjustable adj
 
2. arbitrary adj.   Chosen simply by whim or chance, not for any specific reason
The decision to build a school in Blackberry Township was arbitrary, without any thought to future housing patterns.
Parts of speech   arbitrate v, arbitrator n, arbitrarily adv
 
3. denominator n.   The number written below the line in a fraction
In the fraction ½, the number 2 is the denominator.
Usage tips   The phrase lowest common denominator means "the most basic and unsophisticated things that most people share."
Parts of speech   denominate v, denomination n, denominational adj
 
4. exponentially adv.   At a very fast rate
In Turkey, the value of the lira has decreased exponentially in the last several decades.
Usage tips   Exponentially is taken from mathematics, where an exponent is a number indicating how many times something is multiplied by itself. For example, 43 contains the exponent "3," indicating 4 × 4 × 4.
Parts of speech   exponent n, exponential adj
 
5. infinitesimal adj.   Immeasurably small
The number of contaminants in the water was infinitesimal, so the water was safe to drink.
Parts of speech   infinitesimally adv
 
6. maximize v.   To increase or make as great as possible
A coach helps each athlete maximize his or her potential.
Parts of speech   maximum n, maximum adj
 
7. parallel adj.   Being an equal distance apart everywhere
The street where I live runs parallel to the main road through town.
Usage tips   Parallel is often followed by to.
Parts of speech   parallel n, parallel adv
 
8. proportion n.   A part in relation to the whole
The average employee spends a large proportion of each workday answering e-mails.
Usage tips   Proportion is often followed by of.
Parts of speech   proportionate adj, proportionally adv
 
9. rate n.   The cost per unit of a good or service; the motion or change that happens in a certain time.
Postal rates in Japan are among the highest in the world.
Some grasses grow at the rate of one inch per day.
Parts of speech   rate v, rating n
 
10. sequence v.   To organize or arrange in succession
Volunteers have been asked to sequence the files and organize the boxes.
Parts of speech   sequence n, sequentially adv
TOEFL Prep I Complete each sentence by filling in the blank with the best word from the list. Change the form of the word if necessary. Use each word only once.
adjust   arbitrary   denominator   infinitesimal   rate
1. Students felt that the exam was unfair and the grading system was rather _________.
2. The _________ of increase in prices made it difficult for people to afford basic goods.
3. Politicians promised great changes in the coming year, but any improvement in people's lives was _________.
4. She quickly overcame her culture shock and found it easy to _________ to the new country.
5. You can add two fractions that have the same _________.
TOEFL Prep II Find the word or phrase that is closest in meaning to the opposite of each word in the left-hand column. Write the letter in the blank.

TOEFL Success Read the passage to review the vocabulary you have learned. Answer the questions that follow.
Time is, as we all know, money. Such valuation of time leads people to extreme efforts to maximize their use of time. Some people obsess over knowing the exact time. They buy clocks and watches that automatically adjust themselves over the Internet or by radio waves. These measurements allow them infinitesimal accuracy in dealing with time. Regardless of how one tracks time, most people share a common goal: They want to use time effectively. Since about 1982, this efficiency has increased exponentially each year, thanks to computers and their ability to multitask. In multitasking, a computer executes several different tasks in parallel. Rather than being set arbitrarily, each task is given a priority in the computer's operating system, and time is spent in proportion to the priority of the task. The computer executes different sequences of tasks at different clock cycles, thereby increasing the rate of output from a process.

Bonus Structure—As we all know is a writer's device for appealing to common knowledge.

 
1. Why does the author mention computer multitasking in this article?
a. because it is new
b. because it measures time better than any clock
c. because it helps people to arrange their activities sequentially
d. because it is a good example of the efficient use of time
 
2. The underlined word sequences in the passage is closest in meaning to
a. styles
b. lengths
c. orderings
d. difficulty levels
 
Lesson 5   Time Efficiency
TOEFL Prep I      1. arbitrary 2. rate 3. infinitesimal 4. adjust 5. denominator
TOEFL Prep II    1. e 2. c 3. a 4. d 5. b
TOEFL Success   1. d 2. c







LESSON 6
Ancient Life
Target Words
1. accuracy
2. adjacent
3. compress
4. feasibly
5. gut
6. integrally
7. overlap
8. retain
9. seep
10. structure
Definitions and Samples
 
1. accuracy n.   Precision; exactness
The research department checks all our articles for accuracy of facts before we print them.
Usage tips   Accuracy is often followed by of.
Parts of speech   accurate adj, accurately adv
 
2. adjacent adj.   Next to
Even though the villages are adjacent to each other, their residents speak different languages.
Usage tips   Adjacent is often followed by to.
Parts of speech   adjacency n
 
3. compress v.   To press together
To make the foundation stronger, they compressed the soil before pouring the concrete.
Parts of speech   compression n, compressed adj
 
4. feasibly adv.   Practically; in a way that can work
Scientists can't feasibly bring energy from deep ocean currents to where it is needed—on land.
Parts of speech   feasibility n, feasible adj
 
5. gut v.   To empty or hollow out
In order to remodel the house, we must first gut it and throw away all the old fixtures.
Usage tips   Gut also means "the stomach of an animal"; this verb makes an image, that the inside of a building is like the inside of an animal.
Parts of speech   gut n, gutted adj
 
6. integrally adv.   In a whole or complete manner
Writing and spelling are taught integrally as part of the reading program.
Parts of speech   integrate v, integrity n, integral n, integral adj
 
7. overlap v.   To lie over part of something; to have elements in common
One of the two assistants will likely get fired, since most of their duties in the office overlap.
Parts of speech   overlap n
 
8. retain v.   To keep or hold
The rain fell so heavily that the banks of the river could not retain all the water.
Parts of speech   retainer n, retention n
 
9. seep v.   To pass slowly for a long time, as a liquid or gas might
As the containers rusted, the toxic waste seeped into the ground.
Usage tips   Seep is often followed by into or through.
 
10. structure n.   Something constructed, such as a building
Most companies have a social structure that can't be understood by outsiders.
Parts of speech   structure v, structural adj, structurally adv
TOEFL Prep I Complete each sentence by filling in the blank with the best word from the list. Change the form of the word if necessary. Use each word only once.
accuracy   adjacent   feasibly   integrally   structure
1. She had no idea how they could _________ take a big vacation and remodel their house in the same year.
2. Three things have equal roles in the recovery program and are used _________ — daily meditation, massage, and herbal medicines.
3. The rival politicians were raised in _________ counties.
4. If you build a _________ next to this river, you must be sure it is safe against floods.
5. After making a few mistakes, the politician understood the importance of checking his public statements for _________.
TOEFL Prep II Find the word or phrase that is closest in meaning to the opposite of each word in the left-hand column. Write the letter in the blank.

TOEFL Success Read the passage to review the vocabulary you have learned. Answer the questions that follow.
Organic products from ancient life are an integral part of the Earth's resources, offering scientists a more accurate picture of ancient life-forms. One key to ancient life comes in the form of petrified matter. Petrifaction is a process that slowly turns the remains of a living object into stone. In this process, minerals seep into a mass of organic matter. After the organic matter has been replaced, a mineral version of the living object is left. Petrifaction often occurs in trees that are found adjacent to rivers, floodable areas, and volcanoes, which provide the mud or ash that initially covers the organic matter. Some pieces of petrified wood retain the original cellular structure of the wood and the grain can be easily seen. Today, it is feasible to petrify wood in a simple laboratory process.

Bonus Structure—In this context, today means "at present; at this time in history."

Fossils are another way that ancient life is preserved. Most fossils include an animal's hard parts, such as teeth and bones. One type of fossil, called a trace fossil, may also include eggs, tooth marks, contents of the guts, and fossil excrement. Some products from ancient life offer us more than scientific knowledge. One such product is coal, a solid fuel of plant origin. It develops over millions of years, during which swamp vegetation is submerged in water, depleted of oxygen, and covered by layers and layers of sand and mud. These overlapping layers settle with the Earth's movements and are compressed over time.
 
1. Which sentence best expresses the essential information of this passage?
a. Preserved life-forms, including petrified matter and fossils, teach us about ancient life.
b. The primary function for preserved life-forms is scientific discovery.
c. Scientists try to replicate natural processes that preserve ancient life-forms.
d. Ancient organic matter provides the most concentrated forms of energy known to humans.
 
2. In the passage, the words submerged in are closest in meaning to
a. made wet
b. completely covered by
c. adjacent to
d. depleted of 
 
Lesson 6   Ancient Life
TOEFL Prep I      1. feasibly 2. integrally 3. adjacent 4. structure 5. accuracy
TOEFL Prep II    1. c 2. a 3. e 4. d 5. b
TOEFL Success   1. a 2. b







LESSON 7
Computers
Target Words
1. circulate
2. corrode
3. derive
4. detection
5. expeditiously
6. implement
7. innovative
8. installation
9. maintenance
10. simulation
Definitions and Samples
1. circulate v.   To move throughout an area or group; to move along a somewhat circular route
The gossip circulated quickly through the small town.
Blood circulates more quickly during physical exercise.
Usage tips   Circulate is often followed by through.
Parts of speech   circulation n
 
2. corrode v.   To be slowly weakened by chemical reactions
Sitting in salt water, the old coins corroded and became very easy to break.
Usage tips   A familiar kind of corrosion produces rust, the reddish coating on iron or steel that has been exposed to air and water.
Parts of speech   corrosion n, corrosive adj
 
3. derive v.   To come from, usually through a long, slow process
The Cyrillic alphabet was derived from the Greek alphabet.
Usage tips   Derive is often followed by from.
Parts of speech   derivation n, derivative adj
 
4. detection n.   Discovering something that cannot easily be found
With new medical technology, the detection of cancer is much easier nowadays.
Usage tips   Detection is often followed by an of phrase.
Parts of speech   detect v, detectable adj
 
5. expeditiously adv.   Quickly and efficiently
Using carrier pigeons, the military commanders exchanged messages expeditiously.
Parts of speech   expedite v, expedition n, expeditious adj
 
6. implement v.   To make use of; to carry out
Not until after the new software was installed could we implement the new filing system.
Parts of speech   implement n, implementation n
 
7. innovative adj.   Ahead of the times; novel
The innovative use of props and lighting at the experimental theater drew many favorable comments.
Parts of speech   innovation n
 
8. installation n.   Setting something into position for use
Installation of the new software takes only four minutes.
Parts of speech   install v
 
9. maintenance n.   The act of keeping something in good condition
The only problem with living in such a big house is that it requires a lot of maintenance.
Parts of speech   maintain v
 
10. simulation n.   An imitation or representation
To test car safety, automobile makers study crash simulations.
Parts of speech   simulate v, simulator n
TOEFL Prep I Circle the most likely meaning of the word part that is shared within each set of words.
 
1. circulate, circumnavigate, circuit
The root circ / circum probably means
a. around
b. broken
c. fair
d. straight
 
2. innovative, novel, renovate
The root nov probably means
a. clear
b. old
c. new
d. sweet
 
3. installation, implement, imprison
The prefix in-/im- probably means
a. aside
b. behind
c. in
d. out
TOEFL Prep II Circle the word that best completes each sentence.
1. Please make sure this information (circulates / derives) throughout the office quickly.
2. The (installation / simulation) of the new telephones took three days.
3. In order to stay on schedule, we need to complete this project as (expeditiously / innovatively) as possible.
4. The smuggler moved cautiously through the airport to avoid (detection / maintenance).
5. Years of neglect had caused the building's water pipes to (corrode / implement).
TOEFL Success Read the passage to review the vocabulary you have learned. Answer the questions that follow.
As dependence on computers increases, so does the need for technical support. From installation of software to detection of viruses, computers require constant vigilance. Most larger companies find it most expeditious to maintain in-house computer staff. Many smaller companies, however, can't fund their own full-time, in-house technical help. Instead, many of them assign the task of computer maintenance to a current employee who may not have any formal training. Rather, these "computer buffs" have derived their skills through practice and self-training. These self-appointed tech specialists, however, often cannot solve bigger problems. What's more, they may see their office relations corrode when they are swamped with basic user questions that they simply don't have time to address. For these reasons, many small companies choose to employ a freelance technical assistant who circulates among clients on an as-needed basis. With their professional training, these consultants may propose innovative solutions to users' unique needs, which could vary from tracking inventory to simulating mechanized processes. They can implement new programs, train personnel, and escape the workplace before being asked, "How can I cut and paste this text?"
 
1. Which sentence best expresses the essential information of this passage?
a. Larger companies are better off using freelance technical consultants.
b. Computer maintenance and troubleshooting cut into employee productivity.
c. Self-trained technical support personnel are often as effective as trained professionals.
d. Smaller companies may benefit from hiring occasional technical support.
 
2. The article implies that the question How can I cut and paste this text? is
a. a waste of the professional technician's time
b. a good question to give to in-house tech support
c. appropriate for a freelancer to address
d. too difficult for the freelance technical assistant
 
Lesson 7   Computers
TOEFL Prep I      1. a 2. c 3. c
TOEFL Prep II    1. circulates 2. installation 3. expeditiously 4. detection 5. corrode
TOEFL Success   1. d 2. a







LESSON 8
Energy
Target Words
1. combustion
2. component
3. convey
4. discretely
5. nucleus
6. permeate
7. rotate
8. solar
9. source
10. trigger
Definitions and Samples
 
1. combustion n.   The process of burning
When air quality is poor, combustion of materials in a fireplace is prohibited.
Usage tips   Combustion is often followed by of.
Parts of speech   combust v, combustible adj
 
2. component n.   One part of a system or whole
Their home theater system has a number of separate components.
Usage tips   Component is often followed or preceded by of.
 
3. convey v.   To transport from one place to another; to transmit or make known
A messenger conveyed the prince's letter to the commander of the army.
The worst part about being a doctor was when she had to convey bad news to a family.
Parts of speech   conveyance n, conveyor n
 
4. discretely adv.   Separately; distinctly
In order to understand how the engine worked, each component needed to be studied discretely.
Parts of speech   discrete adj
 
5. nucleus n.   A central or essential part around which other parts are gathered; a core
The nucleus of many European cities is the town square.
Usage tips   Nucleus is often followed by of.
Parts of speech   nuclear adj
 
6. permeate v.   To spread or flow throughout; to pass through or penetrate
The smell of cooking permeated the entire apartment building.
Parts of speech   permeation n, permeable adj
 
7. rotate v.   To turn around; to take turns in sequence
The planet rotates on its axis once every 14 Earth days.
The children rotate classroom responsibilities on a weekly basis.
Parts of speech   rotation n, rotator n, rotor n
 
8. solar adj.   Of, or relating to, the sun
The ancient society kept time with a solar calendar.
 
9. source n.   The point of origin or creation
The reporter was unable to identify the source of the information for his story.
Parts of speech    source v
 
10. trigger v.   To set off or initiate
I was certain any mention of politics would trigger a big argument.
Parts of speech   trigger n
TOEFL Prep I Complete each sentence by filling in the blank with the best word from the list. Change the form of the word if necessary. Use each word only once.
combustion   convey   permeate   source   trigger
1. It is often difficult to _________ the meaning of a poem to a large audience.
2. The _________ of the gossip was someone inside this office.
3. Her bad mood that day _________ the atmosphere in the laboratory.
4. The internal _________ engine revolutionized the way automobiles run.
5. A cigarette _________ the explosion.
TOEFL Prep II Find the word or phrase that is closest in meaning to each word in the left-hand column. Write the letter in the blank.

TOEFL Success Read the passage to review the vocabulary you have learned. Answer the questions that follow.
Most of the electricity in the United States is produced in steam turbines. There are many discrete steps in this process. In a steam turbine, combustion of coal, petroleum, or natural gas heats water to make steam. The steam rotates a shaft that is connected to a generator that produces electricity. Finally, that electricity is converted by a transformer and conveyed from the turbine to its place of use. Many sources can provide energy to heat the water in a steam turbine. Coal is primary, producing 51 percent of the country's electricity. Another common way to heat water for steam turbines is through nuclear power. In nuclear fission, atoms of uranium fuel are hit by neutrons, triggering a continuous chain of fission that releases heat. In 2001, nuclear power generated 21 percent of the electricity in the United States. Solar power produces less than 1 percent of the United States' electricity needs, because it is not regularly available and harnessing it is more expensive than using fossil fuels. Dependence on electricity permeates daily life in the United States. Still, few people are aware of the many components of electricity production.

Bonus Structure—In this context, still means "even so; despite this."

 
1. What does the author say about solar power?
a. It produces more electricity than any other source.
b. It is a relatively small source of energy for heating water in steam turbines.
c. Electricity producers are trying to use it more regularly.
d. Researchers are trying to make it cheaper to use.
 
2. In the passage, the word transformer probably refers to a
a. truck
b. generator that produces electricity
c. type of turbine
d. device that changes electric currents
 
Lesson 8   Energy
TOEFL Prep I      1. convey 2. source 3. permeated 4. combustion 5. triggered
TOEFL Prep II    1. b 2. c 3. e 4. a 5. d
TOEFL Success   1. b 2. d







Mind and Body








LESSON 9
Memory
Target Words
1. acquisition
2. anomaly
3. consciously
4. degrade
5. gap
6. indisputable
7. intervene
8. intuitively
9. recede
10. retrieve
Definitions and Samples
 
1. acquisition n.   The act of taking possession of something
Our recent acquisition of over 2,000 books makes ours the biggest library in the region.
Usage tips   Acquisition is often followed by of.
Parts of speech   acquire v, acquisitive adj
 
2. anomaly n.   Something unusual
White tigers get their beautiful coloring from a genetic anomaly.
Parts of speech   anomabus adj
 
3. consciously adv.   With awareness of one's actions
He may have hurt her feelings, but he never would have done so consciously.
Parts of speech   consciousness n, conscious adj
 
4. degrade v.   To reduce in value or strength
The roads in cold or wet areas of the United States degrade faster than those in warm, sunny regions.
Parts of speech   degradation n, degradable adj
 
5. gap n.   Opening; a big difference in amount or quality
The small gap between the walls in the old house caused cold drafts to come in.
 
6. indisputable adj.   Beyond doubt; unquestionable
The members of the jury found her guilty because they found the facts of the case indisputable.
Parts of speech   indisputably adv
 
7. intervene v.   To come between
A good mediator intervenes only as much as necessary to settle a dispute between other parties.
Parts of speech   intervention n
 
8. intuitively adv.   By means of a natural sense about things that are hard to observe
Many mothers know intuitively when something is wrong with their children.
Parts of speech   intuition n, intuitive adj
 
9. recede v.   To move back or away from
After the age of 30, his hairline began to recede further back from his forehead.
Parts of speech   recession n, recessive adj
 
10. retrieve v.   To bring or get back
Most dogs can be trained to retrieve objects that their owners have thrown.
Parts of speech   retriever n, retrievable adj
TOEFL Prep I Find the word or phrase that is closest in meaning to the opposite of each word in the left-hand column. Write the letter in the blank.

TOEFL Prep II Circle the word that best completes each sentence.
1. A huge (anomaly / gap) between the wealthy and the working class often leads to social unrest.
2. The new computers enable us to (intervene / retrieve) information more quickly.
3. Although she wasn't qualified for the job, she (indisputably / intuitively) felt that she should apply.
4. Before he joined the military, he didn't know that officers routinely (degrade / recede) and insult new soldiers.
5. The art in the foyer was an important (acquisition / consciousness) for the museum.
TOEFL Success Read the passage to review the vocabulary you have learned. Answer the question that follows.
Like other functions of the human mind, perception and memory are imperfect. When we tell a story about something that we witnessed, we may intuitively believe that our recollection is accurate. However, several factors bias our memories of events. To study this anomaly, let us look at the three steps of memory creation: acquisition of memory, storing of memory, and retrieval. At every stage of memory formation, distortion can occur. At the first stage, acquisition of memory, events are perceived and bits of information are prepared for storage in the brain. However, it is impossible for us to remember every single thing we observe. Through processes that are both conscious and unconscious, people determine which details they will focus on.
In its second stage, storage, memories can become further distorted. Over time, our memories degrade, as we forget portions of events. To compensate, we may even creatively fill in the gap created by the recession of long-term memory. Additionally, an individual's memory can be altered during the storage stage by intervening occurrences, which can be subconsciously combined with previously stored memories. Last but not least, we search our memory to locate information. During recall, emotion also seems to play a part in memory distortion. In sum, our memories may not be the indisputable source of information that we would like them to be.

Bonus Structure—In sum means "to summarize; to give a short version of what has been stated."

_______________________________________
An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the three answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. In each blank, write the letter of one of your choices.
 

 
a. People purposefully present a slanted version of events.
b. Memories can be altered at any point in memory creation.
c. People naturally cannot recall everything they observe.
d. Memories are an indisputable source of fact.
e. Time and emotion contribute to memory degradation.
f. Past occurrences often displace current memories.
 
Lesson 9   Memory
TOEFL Prep I      1. b 2. d 3. e 4. a 5. c
TOEFL Prep II    1. gap 2. retrieve 3. intuitively 4. degrade 5. acquisition
TOEFL Success   b, c, e







LESSON 10
Spirituality
Target Words
1. agnostic
2. animism
3. atheist
4. be inclined to
5. contemplate
6. deify
7. ecclesiastical
8. exalt
9. pious
10. sacrifice
Definitions and Samples
 
1. agnostic adj.   Believing that humans cannot know whether there is a god
His devoutly Christian parents had problems with his agnostic beliefs.
Parts of speech   agnostic n, agnosticism n
 
2. animism n.   The belief that natural objects, such as trees, have souls
Desert cultures that practice animism often believe that winds contain spirits.
Parts of speech   animistic adj, animist n
 
3. atheist n.   One who does not believe in the existence of a supreme being
He argued that his scientific training made it impossible for him to be anything but an atheist.
Parts of speech   atheistic adj, atheism n
 
4. be inclined to v.   To favor an opinion or a course of action
He couldn't say which candidate he favored, but he had always been inclined to vote Republican.
Parts of speech   incline n, inclination n
 
5. contemplate v.   To consider thoughtfully
If you contemplate each step for so long, we will never complete this project on time.
Parts of speech   contemplation n, contemplative adj
 
6. deify v.   To worship as a god
When people deify the leader of their country, he or she is able to abuse power more easily.
Parts of speech   deity n, deification n
 
7. ecclesiastical adj.   Relating to a church
He was looking specifically for a university where he could study ecclesiastical history.
Parts of speech   ecclesiastic n, ecclesiastically adv
 
8. exalt v.   To praise or honor
He would often exalt the virtues of his new wife.
Parts of speech   exaltation n
 
9. pious adj.   Having or exhibiting religious reverence
Sometimes she was so pious that the rest of us felt like heathens.
Parts of speech   piousness n, piety n, piously adv
 
10. sacrifice v.   Anything offered to a deity as a religious thanksgiving; giving up something in order to have something more valuable later on
Every harvest time, the Fadeloni people sacrificed vegetables to their gods as a show of thanks.
In order to succeed in his career, he had to sacrifice his private life and his leisure time.
Parts of speech   sacrifice n, sacrificial adj, sacrificially adv
TOEFL Prep I Complete each sentence by filling in the blank with the best word or phrase from the list. Change the form of the word if necessary. Use each word or phrase only once.
be inclined to   contemplate   deify   exalted   sacrifice
1. Traditionally, the Camerian society _________ its leaders, considering them to be sent from the land of the gods.
2. To do well in his university courses, he had to _________ a lot of his personal time.
3. The generation of American leaders known as "the Founders" are _________ by many scholars for their wisdom and courage.
4. She knew she would always _________ agree with what her mother said, so she struggled to remain unbiased.
5. The human resources department _________ whether they should let Mary go.
TOEFL Prep II Circle the likely meaning of the word part that is shared within each set of words.
 
1. animism, animal, animation
The root anima probably means
a. color
b. death
c. many
d. life
 
2. atheistic, amoral, apathetic
The prefix a probably means
a. not
b. loving
c. excessive
d. surely
TOEFL Success Read the passage to review the vocabulary you have learned. Answer the questions that follow.
In Russia, several religions coexist, including Christianity, Judaism, Islam, and animism. The most common religion is Christianity, and most Christians are members of the Russian Orthodox Church. The Church has existed for over 1,000 years, surviving even the official atheism of the Soviet era and the agnosticism that may have been even more prominent at the time. During the communist years, many Russians who practiced Orthodoxy sacrificed career and educational opportunities. The tenacity of Russian Orthodoxy may explain why even nonreligious Russians are inclined to call themselves Russian Orthodox. That same staying power drives the Church today, which is run by Kirill of Leningrad. Born Vladimir Mikhailovich Gundyayev, the future patriarch was from a very pious family. Both his father and grandfather were priests, and as a boy he must have begun contemplation of the religious way of life he was to choose. As patriarch, Kirill is exalted in Church governance, but he is not deified. He has closely aligned the church with recent secular leaders of Russia, such as Vladimir Putin. In addition to his ecclesiastical accomplishments, he has a strong reputation as a geologist.

Bonus Structure—Here As patriarch means "while working in the position of church leader."

 
1. Which sentence best expresses the essential information of this passage?
a. The Russian Orthodox Church was banned under Soviet control.
b. Few Russians believe in a god.
c. Aleksey II has updated the church's image.
d. The Russian Orthodox Church has a long history of strong membership in Russia.
 
2. According to the passage, Kirill is
a. a god
b. a high Church official
c. a secular leader
d. an atheist
 
Lesson 10   Spirituality
TOEFL Prep I      1. deifies 2. sacrifice 3. exalted 4. be inclined to 5. contemplated
TOEFL Prep II    1. d 2. a
TOEFL Success   1. d 2. b







LESSON 11
Illness
Target Words
1. aggravate
2. decrepit
3. disease
4. fatally
5. forensics
6. persist
7. prognosis
8. terminal
9. vein
10. wound
Definitions and Samples
 
1. aggravate v.   To make worse; to anger or intensify
Running will aggravate your sore knees.
Parts of speech   aggravation n
 
2. decrepit adj.   Weakened or worn out because of age, illness, or excessive use
The once-beautiful building was now dirty, decrepit, and roofless.
 
3. disease n.   An unhealthful condition caused by an infection or a longterm physical problem
Thanks to developments in medicine, many once-fatal diseases can now be cured.
 
4. fatally adv.   Causing death or disaster
The soldier was fatally wounded in the battle.
Parts of speech   fatality n, fatal adj
 
5. forensics n.   The use of science and technology to investigate facts in criminal cases
Advances in the study of forensics have made it much easier to identify criminals from very small traces of evidence.
Parts of speech   forensic adj
 
6. persist v.   To continue to exist; to hold to a purpose, despite any obstacle
If your symptoms persist, you should go see a doctor.
Lola persisted in her efforts to become a lawyer.
Parts of speech   persistence n, persistent adj
 
7. prognosis n.   An educated guess of how something will develop, especially a disease
The room fell silent when the doctor gave Senator Grebe a grim prognosis of months of treatment.
 
8. terminal adj.   Located at an end; approaching death
The cancer ward at the hospital held both terminal and recovering patients.
Parts of speech   terminate v, terminally adv
 
9. vein n.   Any of the tubes that form a branching system, especially those that carry blood to the heart
She became fascinated with human anatomy, especially when she learned how veins transport oxygen.
 
10. wound v.   To inflict an injury on
Sometimes he didn't realize his sharp humor could wound as well as entertain.
Parts of speech   wound n
TOEFL Prep I Choose the word from the list that is closest in meaning to the underlined part of each sentence. Write it in the blank.
disease   fatal   persist   prognosis   wound

TOEFL Prep II Next to each definition, write the word that most closely fits it.

TOEFL Success Read the passage to review the vocabulary you have learned. Answer the questions that follow.
The man was decrepit. With high blood pressure, cancer, and liver disease, he aggravated his situation by smoking. His prognosis was death. His advanced lung cancer was terminal, and his family members knew that he would pass away soon. So no one was surprised to find him dead on that sharp winter Thursday, no one, that is, except one sharp-eyed detective, who noticed the bedroom window ajar on the morning of the old man's death. Would a fatally ill person be likely to sleep with the window open on a freezing cold night?
This question occupied forensic specialists from the medical examiner's office. There, an autopsy revealed an unlikely wound on the victim's thigh. Such a wound could easily have been inflicted by someone administering medicine ... or poison. From there, the poison could travel through the veins, shutting down vital organs and causing death within seconds.

Bonus Structure—Indeed indicates that an idea in an earlier paragraph was actually true.

Indeed, the death turned out to be murder in the first degree. Criminal investigators persisted in their questioning of friends and family, only later finding the motive: money. Two distant relatives who stood to inherit large sums from the old man's estate plotted the death, believing that the old man's death would not be questioned.
 
1. Why does the author mention a wound?
a. The wound caused the death.
b. It was evidence of a struggle.
c. It was suspicious.
d. It was predictable, considering the man's disease.
 
2. In the passage, the word inherit is closest in meaning to
a. lose
b. gain
c. earn
d. want
 
Lesson 11   Illness
TOEFL Prep I      1. wound 2. disease 3. persist 4. prognosis 5. fatal
TOEFL Prep II    1. forensics 2. vein 3. aggravate 4. terminal 5. decrepit
TOEFL Success   1. c 2. b







LESSON 12
Surgery
Target Words
1. anesthesia
2. augment
3. certifiably
4. complication
5. cure
6. implant
7. inject
8. obese
9. procedure
10. scar
Definitions and Samples
 
1. anesthesia n.   Techniques for reducing sensation and feeling, especially to control pain
The Civil War was the first American war when anesthesia was widely used in surgery on soldiers.
Usage tips   Anesthesia and anesthetic are often used interchangeably.
Parts of speech   anesthetic n, adj
 
2. augment v.   To make bigger or better by adding to
In some types of popular cosmetic surgery people augment parts of their bodies.
The college augmented its course offerings because students complained that there were too few choices.
Parts of speech   augmentation n
 
3. certifiably adv.   In a manner that is officially recognized
He couldn't be institutionalized until he was declared certifiably insane.
Parts of speech   certify v, certification n, certificate n, certifiable adj
 
4. complication n.   A factor that makes something more difficult or complex
The surgeons could not easily stop the bleeding because of complications related to the patient's diabetes.
Parts of speech   complicate v
 
5. cure v.   To restore to health
They say laughter can help cure many illnesses.
Parts of speech   cure n, curable adj
 
6. implant v.   To set in firmly; to insert in the body surgically
The doctor implanted some tissue into the actress's cheeks to make her face look fuller.
Parts of speech   implantation n, implant n
 
7. inject v.   To insert a liquid by means of a syringe
The doctor used a needle to inject the medicine slowly into her arm.
Parts of speech   injection n
 
8. obese adj.   Excessively overweight
More Americans are obese now because U.S. culture encourages overeating and discourages exercise.
Parts of speech   obesity n
 
9. procedure n.   A specific way of performing or doing something
The flight attendant explained the emergency evacuation procedure.
Parts of speech   proceed v, procedural adj
 
10. scar n.   A mark on the skin left after a wound has healed; a lasting sign of damage, either mental or physical
The surgery was successful, but it left a large scar across her abdomen.
Parts of speech   scar v
TOEFL Prep I For each word, choose the word or phrase that has the most similar meaning. Write the letter of your choice on the line.
1. scar _________
(a) bandage   (b) mark   (c) shine   (d) cover
2. augment _________
(a) take away   (b) discuss   (c) use   (d) add to
3. complication _________
(a) added difficulty   (b) improved performance   (c) method of training   (d) prediction about results
4. obese _________
(a) attractive   (b) healthy   (c) very overweight   (d) high
5. cure _________
(a) heal   (b) study   (c) diagnose   (d) tie up
TOEFL Prep II Circle the word that best completes each sentence.
1. The (procedure / scar) to prepare for the surgery took four hours.
2. Only seriously (certifiable / obese) people should get their stomachs surgically reduced.
3. He almost died during the operation because the doctors did not give him the right kind of (anesthesia / complication).
4. Doctors are now able to (cure / implant) many types of sickness that were usually fatal in the past.
5. Before (augmenting / injecting) a painkiller, the dentist rubbed cloves on the woman's gums to numb them.
TOEFL Success Read the passage to review the vocabulary you have learned. Answer the questions that follow.
Since 1992, the number of cosmetic surgery procedures has risen 175 percent in the United States. Two of the most popular are liposuction and breast augmentation. In liposuction, the doctor inserts a small tube into the skin that sucks fat from the body. And while it may sound easy, it isn't. Liposuction is so painful that people are often given anesthesia. What's more, liposuction is not really a cure for obesity. Rather, it should be used when diet and exercise do not reduce fat in certain "trouble spots." Another common cosmetic procedure is breast augmentation. In this procedure, an implant is inserted through the armpit, making the breasts appear larger. Breast augmentation usually leaves only a small scar. Some common complications include the effects of anesthesia, infection, swelling, redness, bleeding, and pain. To reduce these risks, consumers are advised to be sure that their surgeon is board-certified.

Bonus Structure—What's more means "in addition; even more importantly."

 
1. Which sentence best expresses the essential information of this passage?
a. Cosmetic surgery is dangerous.
b. Many people do not have cosmetic surgery because of the pain.
c. Cosmetic surgery is increasing in popularity in the United States.
d. Breast reduction is almost as popular as breast augmentation.
 
2. In the underlined sentence, trouble spots refers to
a. places where people are commonly overweight
b. methods of exercise that aren't effective
c. parts of the body where liposuction doesn't work
d. specific areas on the body where fat is hard to minimize
 
Lesson 12   Surgery
TOEFL Prep I      1. b 2. d 3. a 4. c 5. a
TOEFL Prep II    1. procedure 2. obese 3. anesthesia 4. cure 5. injecting
TOEFL Success   1. c 2. d







LESSON 13
Ghosts
Target Words
1. astrological
2. divination
3. haunt
4. horror
5. intermediary
6. invoke
7. meditate
8. phantom
9. psychic
10. self-perpetuating
Definitions and Samples
 
1. astrological adj.   Related to the study of the position of stars, the sun, and the planets in the belief that they influence earthly events
Every day, Mona read her astrological forecast in the newspaper, and she was careful if the horoscope predicted trouble.
Parts of speech   astrology n, astrologer n, astrologically adv
 
2. divination n.   Foretelling the future by finding patterns in physical objects
In Turkey, women offer divinations by reading the dregs from a coffee cup.
Parts of speech   divine v
 
3. haunt v.   To continually appear (in the form of a ghost) in the same place or to the same person
Some say the ghost of Princess Hilda haunts this castle, appearing as a headless form while she plays the piano.
The pictures of children dying in war have haunted me for a long time.
 
4. horror n.   Strong fear mixed with disgust
On Halloween night, all the horror movies were rented out.
Parts of speech   horrify v, horrific adj
 
5. intermediary n.   Acting as an agent between people or things
The plaintiff's lawyer suggested that they hire an intermediary to help them discuss their case.
Usage tips   Intermediary comes from the Latin words meaning "between the ways."
Parts of speech   intermediary n
 
6. invoke v.   To call on for support
In many religions, believers invoke their god by holding out their hands.
Parts of speech   invocation n
 
7. meditate v.   To reflect; to think quietly and deeply for a long time
Every morning, the monks meditated for three hours in complete silence.
Parts of speech   meditation n, meditative adj
 
8. phantom n.   A dimly visible form, usually thought to be the spirit of a dead person, a sunken ship, etc.
Many visitors reported seeing a phantom who appeared around the lake.
Usage tips   Phantom originates in a word meaning "dream"; like a dream, a phantom leaves an observer wondering whether it's real or not.
 
9. psychic adj.   Relating to the supposed ability of the human mind to sense things that cannot be observed
The governor's assistant claimed to have unique psychic abilities enabling him to read people's minds.
Parts of speech   psychic n, psychically adv
 
10. self-perpetuating adj.   Having the power to renew oneself for an indefinite period of time
It is difficult to escape from a lie, as they are often self-perpetuating.
Parts of speech   self-perpetuation n
TOEFL Prep I For each word, choose the word or phrase that has the most similar meaning. Write the letter of your choice on the line.
1. divination__________
(a) demand   (b) prediction   (c) problem   (d) route
2. haunt__________
(a) dry out   (b) fail to show up   (c) continue to disturb   (d) search desperately
3. meditate__________
(a) clarify   (b) expose   (c) purge   (d) think
4. invoke__________
(a) call   (b) cry   (c) inspire   (d) reject
5. psychic__________
(a) empty   (b) mental   (c) powerful   (d) vague
TOEFL Prep II Circle the word that best completes each sentence.
1. The leaders of the religious group are said to have (astrological / psychic) powers that allow them to move objects just by the power of their thoughts.
2. For years after the earthquake, she was disturbed by the (haunting / self-perpetuating) memories of destruction.
3. The boys told their new friend that they had seen (intermediaries / phantoms) in the cemetery at night.
4. During the scuffle, the citizens were prepared to (invoke / meditate) the right of citizen's arrest because no police officers were present.
5. Even people who don't believe in (divination / horror) were impressed by her ability to predict future events.
TOEFL Success Read the passage to review the vocabulary you have learned. Answer the questions that follow.
Some say that sailors are a superstitious group. Long nights of watching stars predispose them to a belief in astrology. Long periods of isolation lead them to believe in psychic phenomena that others would laugh at. This may explain sailors' frequent reports of seeing phantom ships. From the Gulf of Mexico, across the Atlantic, and to the South China Sea, sailors often claim that such vessels haunt the seas. One of the most famous stories of ghost ships is the Flying Dutchman, which sailed in 1680 from Amsterdam to Dutch East India under Hendrick Vanderdecken. When the captain ignored the danger warnings of a storm, his ship was smashed and the crew was lost. According to legend, his arrogance invoked the wrath of God, who condemned the lost crew-members to battle the waters off the Cape of Good Hope for eternity. Since then, there have been repeated sightings of the Flying Dutchman, one as recent as 1939. Many sightings of phantom ships occur in areas where vessels are known to have sunk. Sailors can never divine when or where they will next encounter a phantom ship. Rather, most of their sightings occur randomly, only later to bring forth information of a former sea horror. Some say that ghosts aboard a phantom ship are trying to use living sailors as their intermediaries. Still others think that the existence of phantom ships is merely a self-perpetuating myth for bored sailors who are prone to too much idle meditation about the meaning of life and death on the high seas.
 
1. How would the author explain phantom ships?
a. Their appearance is tied to the stars.
b. Sailors at sea have little to do.
c. Fog and high waves can distort one's vision.
d. Shipwreck remains haunt oceans around the world.
 
2. Why does the author mention the Flying Dutchman?
a. as the basis of primitive navigation systems
b. as an example of a commonly sighted phantom ship
c. as the reason why many sailors have mental problems
d. as an explanation for sightings of phantom ships
 
Lesson 13   Ghosts
TOEFL Prep I   1. b 2. c 3. d 4. a 5. b
TOEFL Prep II   1. psychic 2. haunting 3. phantoms 4. invoke 5. divination
TOEFL Success   1. b 2. b







Society








LESSON 14
Anthropology
Target Words
1. assimilate
2. cremation
3. domesticate
4. folklore
5. fossilize
6. relic
7. rite
8. ritually
9. saga
10. vestige
Definitions and Samples
 
1. assimilate v.   To consume and incorporate; to become similar
Not all of the overseas students could assimilate into the rigidly controlled school.
Usage tips   Assimilate is often followed by into.
Parts of speech   assimilation n
 
2. cremation n.   The act of burning the dead
Cremation is particularly common in Japan, where land for burial is very limited.
Parts of speech   cremate v
 
3. domesticate v.   To make something suitable for being in a home
The Barnes family hoped to domesticate the tiger, but their neighbors were skeptical.
Usage tips   The object of domesticate is usually a plant or animal.
Parts of speech   domestic adj
 
4. folklore n.   Traditional myths of a people transmitted orally
Through folklore, archaeologists have learned about the migration of Native Americans in North America.
Parts of speech   folkloric adj
 
5. fossilize v.   To become preserved in clay or stone or ash after death, so that a natural record is left of the original organism; to become rigid and stuck in old ways
The dinosaur eggs had fossilized over thousands of years.
Parts of speech   fossilization n, fossil n
 
6. relic n.   Something left from a long-ago culture, time period, or person
Relics of the war can still be found in the sand dunes along this shore.
 
7. rite n.   A ceremony meant to achieve a certain purpose
Many cultures have fertility rites that supposedly make it more likely for women to bear children.
 
8. ritually adv.   As part of a formal ceremony involving a required sequence of actions
The children ritually kissed their parents on the cheek before bed.
Parts of speech   ritual n, ritual adj
 
9. saga n.   A long story about important events long ago
Many American families tell sagas about their ancestors' arrival in the United States.
 
10. vestige n.   A visible trace that something once existed
The wilted flowers were the only vestige of their romantic weekend.
Parts of speech   vestigial adj
TOEFL Prep I Choose the word from the list that is closest in meaning to the underlined part of each sentence. Write it in the blank.

TOEFL Prep II Write the best word next to each definition. Use each word only once.

TOEFL Success Read the passage to review the vocabulary you have learned. Answer the questions that follow.
The aborigines of Australia may have been some of the first people on the planet. Recent discoveries of relics, including stone tools, show that humans lived near Penrith, New South Wales, about 47,000 years ago. Australian aborigines migrated from northern lands by sea, when the water passages were narrower than they are today. This is the first evidence of sea travel by prehistoric humans. The saga of this water passing survives in modern-day aboriginal folklore. To put this in perspective, remember that 50,000 years ago, humans were nomadic. Early aborigines did not cultivate crops, and in Australia at the time there were no animals that could be domesticated. No one knows how long it took aboriginal people to reach Australia, but archaeologists are searching through ancient campsites for vestiges of their early lifestyle. Fossilized remains indicate that these nomadic people not only gathered food from the land, but they also subsisted on meat from large animals that no longer exist today. As part of their hunting tradition, aborigines ritually covered themselves in mud to mask their own scent or for camouflage. Aboriginal society marked the major events of life with rites such as circumcision, marriage, and cremation. Older people were revered and cared for as great sources of wisdom. When Westerners arrived in Australia in 1788, the 300,000 aborigines who lived there were not eager to assimilate into Europe-based society. In the following years, disease, loss of land, and loss of identity shaped the aborigines' history perhaps as much as their first prehistoric crossing from the north.

Bonus Structure—To put this in perspective means "to give some background information."

 
1. Which sentence best expresses the essential information in this passage?
a. Australian aborigines were some of the Earth's first people.
b. White explorers did not respect aboriginal culture.
c. Australian aborigines probably migrated from Africa.
d. The organization and functioning of aboriginal society is mostly unknown.
 
2. In this passage, the word ritually is closest in meaning to
a. regularly
b. ignorantly
c. superstitiously
d. dramatically 
 
Lesson 14   Anthropology
TOEFL Prep I      1. ritual 2. domesticate 3. folklore 4. cremation 5. assimilate
TOEFL Prep II    1. fossilize 2. rite 3. relic 4. vestige 5. saga
TOEFL Success   1. a 2. a







LESSON 15
Social Inequality
Target Words
1. amend
2. biased
3. burden
4. counter
5. de facto
6. discriminate
7. notion
8. oppress
9. paradigm
10. prejudiced
Definitions and Samples
 
1. amend v.   To change for the better
The residents voted to amend their neighborhood policy on fences.
Parts of speech   amendment n
 
2. biased adj.   Leaning unfairly in one direction
Her newspaper article was criticized for being heavily biased toward the mayor's proposal.
Parts of speech   bias n
 
3. burden n.   Something that is carried; a source of stress or worry
The donkey walked slowly under the burden of its heavy load.
The failing company faced the burden of bad debts and a poor reputation.
Parts of speech   burden v
 
4. counter v.   To act in opposition to; to offer in response
The hockey player countered the punch with a smashing blow from his hockey stick.
Jane countered every accusation with a specific example of her achievements.
Parts of speech   counter n, counter adv
 
5. de facto adj.   Truly doing a job, even if not officially
After the president's death, the country had no official leader, but the powerful army had de facto control of the government.
Parts of speech   de facto adv
 
6. discriminate   To choose carefully among options
The governor wisely discriminated between urgent issues and those that could wait.
Usage tips   If you discriminate against someone, you treat him/her unfairly because of ethnicity, sex, religion, or some other characteristic.
Parts of speech   discriminatory adj, discriminate adv
 
7. notion n.   A belief; a fanciful impulse
The notion that older office equipment is unreliable is inaccurate.
One morning, she suddenly took the notion to paint her kitchen red.
Usage tips   Notion can be followed by a that clause or a to phrase.
 
8. oppress v.   To keep down by force; to weigh heavily on
Factory management oppressed workers through intimidation.
Parts of speech   oppression n
 
9. paradigm n.   A pattern or model; a set of assumptions
The usual paradigm for economic growth in developed countries does not apply to some poor nations.
Usage tips   Paradigm is often followed by for.
 
10. prejudiced adj.   Causing to judge prematurely and unfairly
Many consumers are prejudiced against commercial goods made in third-world countries.
Parts of speech   prejudice v, prejudice n
TOEFL Prep I   Complete each sentence by filling in the blank with the best word from the list. Change the form of the word if necessary. Use each word only once.
biased   counter   de facto   notion   paradigm
1. During the trial, the defense lawyer _________ each claim with an opposite charge.
2. The basketball coach was naturally _________ toward the taller players.
3. After we saw the fancy car that the Jacobses bought, we gave up the _________ that they could not afford the basic things in life.
4. The battle was successful, as judged by the prevailing of _________ that era.
5. Even though Jovie was a cleaner, not a nanny, she was the baby's _________ caregiver because his parents worked so many hours.
TOEFL Prep II Find the word or phrase that is closest in meaning to the opposite of each word in the left-hand column. Write the letter in the blank.

TOEFL Success Read the passage to review the vocabulary you have learned. Answer the questions that follow.
Nelson Mandela devoted his life to fighting prejudice in South Africa. Mandela traveled his state, organizing a fight against discriminatory laws and racial bias. He encouraged civil disobedience as a tool against the oppression of Blacks. As deputy president of the African National Congress, Mandela encouraged his fellow citizens to challenge the prevailing paradigm of power. Mandela believed that prejudice burdened not only the oppressed, but also the oppressors.
The government countered Mandela's activities with a criminal conviction. Still, Mandela's de facto leadership gained him respect and authority among his fellow citizens. Mandela's courage and popularity worried the ruling class, who did not want to share power. What's more, they refused to amend the state's laws. So when Mandela returned from an overseas trip to gain support for his cause in 1962, he was arrested, jailed, and sentenced to life in prison for various crimes.

Bonus Structure—The ruling class means those who held power mostly because of the families they were born into.

This only fueled Mandela's notions about inequality and justice. He took his demands to jail, where he demanded the same dress and safety gear for Black prisoners as for White prisoners. After 28 years in prison, Mandela was released, returning immediately to public life. In 1994, he was elected the president of South Africa.
 
1. Which of the following best expresses the essential information of this passage?
a. Nelson Mandela used illegal means to achieve his ends.
b. Nelson Mandela fought prejudice in South Africa.
c. Nelson Mandela inspired Blacks around the world.
d. Nelson Mandela was driven primarily by his religious beliefs.
 
2. In the passage, the word amend is closest in meaning to
a. ignore
b. write down
c. change
d. discuss 
 
Lesson 15   Social Inequality
TOEFL Prep I      1. countered 2. biased 3. notion 4. paradigm 5. de facto
TOEFL Prep II    1. c 2. a 3. b 4. e 5. d
TOEFL Success   1. b 2. c







LESSON 16
Expertise
Target Words
1. curriculum
2. distinctly
3. erudite
4. fortify
5. implicitly
6. parochial
7. rigor
8. roster
9. secular
10. suspend
Definitions and Samples
 
1. curriculum n.   The courses of study offered by an educational institution
The teachers met to design a new curriculum for the Intensive English Program.
 
2. distinctly adv.   Clearly
I distinctly remember saying that we would meet at noon.
Parts of speech   distinction n, distinct adj
 
3. erudite adj.   Highly educated
Even though Stella was only a freshman, she was considered erudite by both her classmates and her professors.
 
4. fortify v.   To strengthen
The high-priced drink had extra vitamins and minerals to fortify the body.
Parts of speech   fortification n
 
5. implicitly adv.   Without being stated; unquestioningly
By joining the competition, she agreed implicitly to the rules.
Parts of speech   implicit adj
 
6. parochial adj.   Restricted in outlook; relating to the local parish
Marla moved from her rural community to get away from its parochial thinking.
Sending your children to a parochial school can cost as much as sending them to college.
 
7. rigor n.   Strictness; difficult situations that come from following rules strictly
The wrestler followed his diet with rigor.
The rigors of military life toughened the young men quickly.
Parts of speech   rigorous adj
 
8. roster n.   A list, especially of names
Two of the names on the roster were misspelled.
 
9. secular adj.   Worldly rather than spiritual; not related to religion
Originally, the university was related to a church, but that connection is gone and it's now totally secular.
 
10. suspend v.   To cause to stop for a period; to hang as to allow free movement
The trial was suspended when the judge learned that one of the jury members knew the defense lawyer.
The circus acrobat was suspended in midair.
Parts of speech   suspension n, suspension adj
TOEFL Prep I For each word, choose the word that has the most similar meaning. Write the letter of your choice on the line.
1. distinctly    __________________
(a) clearly      (b) fully      (c) softly      (d) aggressively
2. erudite    __________________
(a) strong      (b) wise      (c) complicated      (d) plain
3. fortify    __________________
(a) weaken      (b) contemplate      (c) strengthen      (d) reshape
4. rigor    __________________
(a) strictness      (b) talent      (c) peace      (d) recklessness
5. suspend    __________________
(a) tie      (b) fill      (c) hang      (d) throw
TOEFL Prep II Choose the word from the list that is closest in meaning to the underlined part of each sentence. Write it in the blank.

TOEFL Success Read the passage to review the vocabulary you have learned. Answer the questions that follow.
In the last three decades, universities across the United States have attempted to adapt their curriculums to meet the changing purposes of higher education. University education was also once considered an exclusive opportunity, with erudite scholars establishing courses based on the goal of training a distinctly academic "elite." These days, not every undergraduate is destined to become a scholar, and the roster of students represents a more complete cross section of society, including minorities, women, and returning students. These days, most learners attend university to fortify basic skills, primarily learning how to learn and how to express themselves. Far from its earlier religious or elitist image, the university is seen increasingly as a secular center for career development, where students know they will graduate into a competitive job market. Most professors have embraced this evolution in the university's role, letting go of the traditional, parochial view of higher education. On the other hand, many feel that while they want to accommodate an adaptable curriculum, universities must not suspend their obligation of establishing rigorous requirements for education and graduation. Implicit in their stance is support for the traditional liberal arts curriculum with a core of classes required across disciplines.

Bonus Structure—On the other hand introduces an opposing point.

 
1. According to information in the reading, which of the following sentences would the author be most likely to agree with?
a. Universities are becoming increasingly exclusive.
b. A curriculum needs to be completely adaptable to students' needs.
c. The role of higher education is changing, and so is the university curriculum.
d. The cost of university puts it out of reach of many populations.
 
2. In this passage, the word elitist is closest in meaning to
a. superior
b. academic
c. populist
d. elegant
 
Lesson 16   Expertise
TOEFL Prep I      1. a 2. b 3. c 4. a 5. c
TOEFL Prep II    1. roster 2. parochial 3. curriculum 4. secular 5. implicitly
TOEFL Success   1. c 2. a







LESSON 17
Military Operations
Target Words
1. allegiance
2. artillery
3. battle
4. cease
5. hierarchy
6. in the trenches
7. mobilize
8. rank
9. ratio
10. strategic
Definitions and Samples
 
1. allegiance n.   Loyalty
My allegiance to my country is based on respect for its principles.
Usage tips   Allegiance is commonly followed by a to phrase.
 
2. artillery n.   Large guns that shoot powerful shells; army units that handle such guns
An artillery barrage broke down the city's thick walls within seconds.The 47th Artillery fired on rebels camped in the city center.
Usage tips   When it means a part of an army, artillery is sometimes plural.
 
3. battle v.   To fight against
The Viet Minh battled French forces at Dien Bien Phu for nearly two months in 1954.
Parts of speech   battle n
 
4. cease v.   Stop
The lightning continued even after the thunder had ceased.
Usage tips   Cease is found in official statements, not usually in everyday speech.
Parts of speech   cessation n, ceaseless adj
 
5. hierarchy n.   A system of levels that places people high or low according to their importance
Starting as a lowly private, Burt Jones gradually rose through the hierarchy of the army.
Usage tips   Hierarchy is often followed by an of phrase.
Parts of speech   hierarchical adj, hierarchically adv
 
6. in the trenches adv'l.   In the middle of the hardest fighting or work
With their unrealistic view of this war, our generals don't know what things are like out in the trenches.
Usage tips   Creates an image of soldiers fighting in a long, dug-out place in the battlefield.
 
7. mobilize v.   To put members of a group into motion
After a terrible storm, the governor mobilized the National Guard to rescue victims.
Parts of speech   mobilization n
 
8. rank v.   To put into a many-leveled order, depending on importance or achievement
The Marines ranked Jim Hurst highest among all their officer candidates.
Parts of speech   rank n
 
9. ratio n.   The relationship of one number or amount to another
Military analysts say that the ratio of attackers to defenders in a battle should be about three to one for the attackers to win.
Usage tips   Ratio is very often followed by an of... to structure.
 
10. strategic adj.   Related to long-term plans for achieving a goal
The United States has formed strategic friendships with Tajikistan and Mongolia to have Central Asian bases in the future.
Usage tips   Strategic is often used with nouns for plans.
Parts of speech   strategy n, strategize v, strategically adv
TOEFL Prep I Find the word or phrase that is closest in meaning to the opposite of each word or phrase in the left-hand column. Write the letter in the blank.

TOEFL Prep II Choose the word from the list that is closest in meaning to the underlined part of each sentence. Write it in the blank.

TOEFL Success Read the passage to review the vocabulary you have learned. Answer the questions that follow.
Until a century ago, military medicine was poor at battling disease. The ratio of soldiers killed by diseases to those killed in combat was probably at least two to one. For strategic reasons, military camps were often set up near a body of water. This gave some protection from enemy artillery, but it exposed soldiers to disease-carrying mosquitoes. Mosquitoes also plagued troops in the trenches. Low -ranking troops suffered the most. Officers who were advanced enough in the hierarchy slept in separate tents on high ground.

Bonus Structure—Until a century ago indicates that the condition to be described stopped about 100 years ago.

The long-held belief that disease resulted from evil spirits or bad air eventually ceased to rule military medicine. The germ theory mobilized actual science against disease. General George Washington ordered that his men be vaccinated against smallpox. Their allegiance to him can be measured by the fact that they obeyed, for Washington's doctors used the actual smallpox virus, not the safer vaccination that Edward Jenner would introduce in 1798.
 
1. Which sentence best expresses the essential information of this passage?
a. Army officers were far healthier than common foot soldiers.
b. For a long time, a soldier was more likely to die of disease than in battle.
c. Armies should camp on dry ground, not near water.
d. Diseases are caused by viruses and spread by mosquitoes.
 
2. Why does the author mention that military camps were often set up near water?
a. to explain why soldiers were not usually killed by artillery
b. to show that officers and men did not mix
c. to explain how soldiers came into contact with disease-carrying mosquitoes
d. to show that water was valuable in treating "camp fever" 
 
Lesson 17   Military Operations
TOEFL Prep I      1. c 2. e 3. a 4. d 5. b
TOEFL Prep II    1. ranked 2. allegiance 3. hierarchy 4. ratio 5. strategy
TOEFL Success   1. b 2. c







LESSON 18
War and Conquest
Target Words
1. annex
2. apex
3. collapse
4. conquest
5. devise
6. invasive
7. prevailing
8. resist
9. severely
10. violation
Definitions and Samples
 
1. annex v.   To make something (usually land) part of another unit
Bardstown grew by annexing several farms at the north edge of town.
Parts of speech   annexation n, annex n
 
2. apex n.   The highest point
Gregory knew that his running skills had to be at their apex during the tournament.
Usage tips   Apex is often used to describe the high point of someone's abilities.
 
3. collapse v.   To fall down, usually because of weakness
Parts of speech   collapse n, collapsible adj
 
4. conquest n.   A takeover by force or continued effort
The first recorded conquest of Mt. Everest was by Tensing Norgay and Sir Edmund Hilary.
Usage tips   Conquest is usually followed by an of phrase.
Parts of speech   conquer v
 
5. devise v.   To find an original way to make an object or a plan
The soldiers devised a way to cross the river into enemy territory without being seen.
Parts of speech   device n
 
6. invasive adj.   Aggressively entering into someone else's territory
Surgery with a laser is less invasive than surgery with a knife or scalpel.
Parts of speech   invade v, invasion n, invader n
 
7. prevailing adj.   Strongest or most common
The prevailing attitude among our neighbors is to be friendly but not too friendly.
Parts of speech   prevail v, prevalence n
 
8. resist v.   To refuse to give in to a strong force or desire
Although many native nations resisted, the U.S. government eventually took over almost all Indian land.
Parts of speech   resistance n, resistant adj
 
9. severely adv.   Harshly; extremely
Commanders severely punished any soldier who criticized the battle plan.
Parts of speech   severity n, severe adj
 
10. violation n.   An action that breaks a law or agreement; mistreatment of something that deserves respect
The army's testing of new weapons was a violation of the cease-fire agreement.
The sculptures at Mt. Rushmore may be a violation of sacred Indian land.
Usage tips   Violation is often followed by an of phrase.
Parts of speech   violate v, violator n
TOEFL Prep I Find the word or phrase that is closest in meaning to each word in the left-hand column. Write the letter in the blank.

TOEFL Prep II Circle the word that best completes each sentence.
1. The judge ruled that Harry was guilty of a (violation / conquest) of the seat-belt law.
2. Because Dalmatia was protected by high mountains, the empire could not (apex / annex) it.
3. We have to (conquest / devise) a way to fight this new disease.
4. Several armed groups joined together to (resist / collapse) the foreign invaders.
5. The (prevailing / invasive) belief held that the enemy's peace moves were not sincere.
TOEFL Success Read the passage to review the vocabulary you have learned. Answer the questions that follow.
The Roman conquest of North Africa is, in the prevailing view, less interesting than Rome's European adventures. In truth, one of the first lands Rome annexed beyond the Italian peninsula was the area around Carthage in North Africa. Carthage and Rome had been in conflict (called the Punic Wars) since 264 BCE for control of trade along the Mediterranean coast. In 202 BCE, during the Second Punic War, the Carthaginian general Hannibal devised a clever plan, in violation of most military wisdom, to march through the high Alps to attack the Roman heartland. The cold weather and steep terrain severely stressed Hannibal's forces, many of whom rode elephants. The Romans resisted Hannibal's attacks, and his bold invasion force collapsed. In the end, Rome finished off Carthage in the Third Punic War (149-146 BCE). At its apex in 117 CE, Rome controlled all of North Africa and territories from the Persian Gulf to Britain.

Bonus Structure—In the end introduces the last stage of a long process.

 
1. Which sentence best expresses the essential information of this passage?
a. Romans were very successful at resisting invaders.
b. Hannibal tried crossing the Alps on elephants to invade Rome.
c. Rome and Carthage fought three wars, known as the Punic Wars.
d. One of Rome's first overseas conquests was of the North African state of Carthage.
 
2. The author of this passage believes that Hannibal's attack on Rome by crossing the Alps was _____________.
a. not what most military commanders would do
b. exactly what the Roman army used to do
c. cruel to elephants
d. impractical because elephants can't cross mountains
 
Lesson 18   War and Conquest
TOEFL Prep I      1. d 2. e 3. a 4. b 5. c
TOEFL Prep II    1. violation 2. annex 3. devise 4. resist 5. prevailing
TOEFL Success   1. d 2. a







LESSON 19
History
Target Words
1. chronologically
2. coincide
3. consequence
4. core
5. deny
6. diminish
7. longitude
8. milieu
9. Orwellian
10. reconciliation
Definitions and Samples
 
1. chronologically adv.   In order according to time
Allen's book is arranged chronologically, from the First Crusade in 1095 to the fall of Granada in 1492.
Usage tips   Chronologically is often used with arranged, organized, listed, or some other word for order.
Parts of speech   chronology n, chronological adj
 
2. coincide v.   Happen or exist at the same time
The Viking attacks on western Europe coincided with an abnormally warm period in the Earth's climate.
Usage tips   Coincide is often followed by a with phrase.
Parts of speech   coincidence n, coincidental adj, coincidentally adv
 
3. consequence n.   A result, often one much later in time than the cause
One consequence of global warming may be the flooding of low-lying islands.
Usage tips   Consequence usually implies something negative or serious about the result.
Parts of speech   consequent adj, consequently adv
 
4. core n.   an area or object at the center
The core of India's film industry is in Bombay, where all but a few film studios are located.
Usage tips   Core is often followed by another noun (e.g., core principle) or by an of phrase.
 
5. deny v.   Say that something is not true
Movie star Allen Butcher denied that he and the Princess of Denmark were getting married.
Usage tips   Deny is often followed by the -ing form of a verb or by a that clause.
Parts of speech   denial n, deniably adv
 
6. diminish v.   Make something smaller or weaker; become smaller or weaker
The Protestant Reformation diminished the power of the Roman Catholic Pope.
Mr. Partridge's influence in the company diminished after he relocated to a branch office.
 
7. longitude n.   A system of imaginary lines running from north to south along the Earth's surface, where each line is numbered from 0° to 180° west or east
The prime meridian, a line running through Greenwich, England, is marked as 0° longitude.
Parts of speech   longitudinal adj, longitudinally adv
 
8. milieu n.   General environment or surroundings
Many Vietnam veterans did not feel comfortable in the antiwar social milieu of the 1970s.
 
9. Orwellian adj.   Frightening and overcontrolled by a government that interferes in nearly every aspect of personal life
Biometric devices like eye-scanners allow an Orwellian level of government knowledge about everyone's location.
Usage tips   Orwellian comes from George Orwell, a British author of the 20th century who wrote a novel called 1984 about a grim future of government control.
 
10. reconciliation n.   Coming back together peacefully after having been enemies
South Africa avoided a bloodbath after apartheid by setting up a Truth and Reconciliation Commission.
Parts of speech   reconcile v, reconciliatory adj
TOEFL Prep I Find the word or phrase that is closest in meaning to each word in the left-hand column. Write the letter in the blank.

TOEFL Prep II Circle the word that best completes each sentence.
1. When a nation becomes unwilling to listen to its allies, its international influence will (deny / diminish).
2. The release of many new movies (coincides / consequences) with the start of the holiday period.
3. The (core / milieu) of Roman power shifted to Constantinople after Rome was attacked repeatedly by armies from the north.
4. As our government becomes better at monitoring us, an (Orwellian / coincidental) future awaits us.
5. As you move directly east from one point on the Earth to another, your (longitude / chronology) changes.
TOEFL Success Read the passage to review the vocabulary you have learned. Answer the questions that follow.
Revisionist history promotes a new view of chronological events, usually for political purposes. Radical revisionists diminish the credibility of a previous view and may even deny that certain events happened at all. Some revisionist Asian historians have ignored long-standing conflicts among native peoples and have explained Asia's conflicts as a consequence of colonialism and its class-oriented cultural milieu. Good motives among the revisionists—to promote reconciliation among traditional rivals—don't excuse bad history. History is valuable only if its stories coincide with verifiable facts. From far away, an observer may see clearly that a given conflict had nothing to do with colonialism and a lot to do with 1,000-year-old rivalries. But this is not likely to matter much to a confirmed revisionist historian. At its core, revisionism—by the government in particular—is an Orwellian exercise in thought control, not honest science.

Bonus Structure—Good motives don't excuse bad history. Even though revisionists are trying to achieve a good social goal, they shouldn't distort history to do so.

 
1. Which sentence best expresses the essential information of this passage?
a. Historians constantly revise history in the light of new facts.
b. Revisionist history is less concerned with accuracy than with promoting a point of view.
c. A new way of studying history, revisionism, has been very successful in Asia.
d. Revisionist history is the only way to accurately relate events.
 
2. Why does the author of this reading mention Asia?
a. because it offers an example of attempts at revisionist history
b. because a civil war occurred between revisionists and others
c. because it is the birthplace of revisionist history
d. because it was colonized by Europeans and needs a revisionist history 
 
Lesson 19   History
TOEFL Prep I      1. a 2. d 3. e 4. b 5. c
TOEFL Prep II    1. diminish 2. coincides 3. core 4. Orwellian 5. longitude
TOEFL Success   1. b 2. a







Money








LESSON 20
Financial Systems
Target Words
1. allocate
2. commodity
3. decline
4. equity
5. inflation
6. net
7. per capita
8. regulate
9. subsidy
10. tangible
Definitions and Samples
 
1. allocate v.   To give out different amounts for different purposes
The budget allocates $58 billion to the military and only about $2 billion to education.
Usage tips   Things that can be allocated are things that can be "spent" — money, time, energy, etc.
Parts of speech   allocation n, allocable adj
 
2. commodity n.   A thing that can be bought and sold, such as grain, oil, or wood
Tulip bulbs were one of the most valuable commodities in seventeenth-century Holland.
Usage tips   A thing is called a commodity only in the context of buying or selling it.
 
3. decline v.   To decrease in power or amount
America's railroads declined because the automobile dominated American life.
Parts of speech   decline n
 
4. equity n.   The value of one's share in an investment
Barnard's equity in the business was one-third, or about $350,000.
Usage tips   In this meaning, equity is always singular and usually followed by an in phrase.
 
5. inflation n.   A situation in which prices for many items rise quite fast
During the rapid inflation of the 1970s, prices for food and fuel sometimes rose 20 percent in a single month.
Parts of speech   inflate v, inflationary adj
 
6. net adj.   After all costs have been subtracted from an amount
My gross salary is around $46,000, but my net pay is closer to $38,000.
Parts of speech   net v, net n
 
7. per capita adv.   For each person
Research shows we're likely to sell 15 light bulbs per capita per year in medium-sized cities.
Parts of speech   per capita adj
 
8. regulate v.   Control according to a set of rules
Trading on the New York Stock Exchange is regulated by officials of the exchange and by federal law.
Parts of speech   regulation n, regulatory adj, regulator n
 
9. subsidy n.   Money given by a government or other organization to support an activity
Federal subsidies to grain farmers have helped them stay in business despite three years of bad weather.
Parts of speech   subsidize v
 
10. tangible adj.   Obviously real because it can be seen, touched, or otherwise observed
One tangible benefit of putting electrical cables underground is a clearer view of the sky.
TOEFL Prep I Cross out the one word or phrase that doesn't fit into each of the lists.
1. things that can be allocated
     money   time   temperature    attention
2. kinds of commodities
     oil   sadness   corn   meat
3. tangible things
     fairness   a road   trees   money
4. things you can have equity in
     a company   a house   a child   a racehorse
TOEFL Prep II Circle the word that best completes each sentence.
1. Buy a car now, before (equity / inflation) drives the price up.
2. Most investors make a mistake. During a stock-market (decline / subsidy) they get frightened and sell.
3. The government is giving a (regulation / subsidy) to tobacco farmers so they can compete with foreign producers.
4. Cortecal Inc. estimates that it spends $80 (per capita / net) on its annual picnic and on its New Year party for the company's 1,300 employees.
5. I think that artificial "holidays" like Valentine's Day or Secretary's Day are just an attempt to turn private feelings into a(n) (commodity / equity).
TOEFL Success Read the passage to review the vocabulary you have learned. Answer the questions that follow.
The great unsettled question of economics is: "How much should the government regulate business?" Conservatives generally argue for a decline in government involvement, but they favor certain subsidies to farmers, steelmakers, or airplane manufacturers. Some conservatives also see no conflict between their small-government views and their eagerness for the government to allocate more money for roads into national forests. The net result of these incursions into national forests is a tangible infrastructure that helps some companies but not the public. Publicly owned trees, land, and oil become commodities from which a few private companies (many owned by small-government conservatives) profit. No per capita benefit goes to the American people, aside perhaps from the brief anti-inflation effect that comes with new oil exploration.

Bonus Structure—Aside perhaps from means "maybe except for."

 
1. What is the main idea of this reading?
a. Conservatives have tried to keep others from expanding government regulations.
b. Even though conservatives say they want to limit government involvement in business, they actually do often favor it.
c. There are several views about the proper role for government in business.
d. Small-government conservatives want the government to allocate a certain amount of federal money per capita to help all Americans.
 
2. Which of the following does the author claim?
a. Industries will become subsidies.
b. Oil exploration causes inflation.
c. Some elements of nature will become commodities.
d. Infrastructure will be made of trees, oil, and land.
 
Lesson 20   Financial Systems
TOEFL Prep I      1. temperature 2. sadness 3. fairness 4. a child
TOEFL Prep II    1. inflation 2. decline 3. subsidy 4. per capita 5. commodity
TOEFL Success   1. b 2. c







LESSON 21
Wealth and Social Class
Target Words
1. accumulate
2. affluence
3. elite
4. impoverish
5. luxury
6. nobility
7. prestige
8. privileged
9. prosper
10. working class
Definitions and Samples
 
1. accumulate v.   To build up a large amount of something
Over several generations, the Hardington family accumulated vast wealth by buying and selling land.
Parts of speech   accumulation n
 
2. affluence n.   Wealth and the style of life that goes with it
Mohadzir grew up amid affluence, which poorly prepared him for his grad student days in crowded apartments with no servants.
Parts of speech   affluent adj
 
3. elite adj.   Belonging to a special, honored group
Messner is an elite climber who recently ascended an 8,000-meter mountain without extra oxygen.
Parts of speech   elite n, elitist adj
 
4. impoverish v.   To make a person or group poor
The collapse of the steel industry impoverished several counties in eastern Ohio.
Parts of speech   impoverishment n
 
5. luxury n.   Extreme comfort, beyond what anyone needs
Automakers try to give their cars an image of luxury by including extras like heated seats and sophisticated entertainment systems.
Parts of speech   luxuriate v, luxurious adj
 
6. nobility n.   A group of socially prominent people with special titles given by a king or queen, such as "duke" or "countess"
In the Middle Ages, the nobility supposedly followed a code that required them to take care of poorer people who lived near their estates.
Usage tips   Nobility is used as a name for a group of distinguished people; it can also mean "a highly dignified form of behavior."
Parts of speech   noble n, noble adj
 
7. prestige n.   Honor and respect for being better than the average
The Grassleys enjoyed the prestige of living in the historic town, but they did not feel at home there.
Parts of speech   prestigious adj
 
8. privileged adj.   Able to enjoy special advantages because of one's position (usually because of being born into a wealthy or powerful family)
Despite his privileged position in one of America's most powerful families, the politician tried to portray himself as an ordinary person.
Parts of speech   privilege n
 
9. prosper v.   To do very well in one's business or personal life
Vargas prospered after finally patenting his new inventions.
Usage tips   A person can prosper; so can a group, a company, or an area.
Parts of speech   prosperity n, prosperous adj
 
10. working class n.   People with low-paying (often unskilled) jobs who are not poor but who are not securely in the middle class
The Farrelly family, like other members of the working class, were proud of their jobs and did not want any handouts from charity or the government.
TOEFL Prep I Find the word or phrase that is closest in meaning to each word in the left-hand column. Write the letter in the blank. Note: Pay careful attention to small differences in meaning among the words.

TOEFL Prep II Complete each sentence by filling in the blank with the best word or phrase from the list. Change the form of the word if necessary. Use each word only once.
affluence   luxury   nobility   prestige   working class
1. The _________ in the hotel was obvious from such features as solid-gold faucets and stairs made of Italian marble.
2. In a show of his extreme _________, Jim Lavich flew 1,500 people to the Bahamas for his wife's birthday party and ordered 300 casks of wine for them to drink.
3. The oldest and most respected furniture maker in western Michigan, VanEden Inc., earned its _________ by using good materials and listening to its customers.
4. France's _________ was dismantled after the royal family was killed and lesser aristocrats were jailed during the revolution.
5. In the United States, many _________ families do not have health insurance because their employers don't offer it.
TOEFL Success Read the passage to review the vocabulary you have learned. Answer the questions that follow.
The United States may be a land of opportunity, but not truly of equal opportunity. There are no titles of nobility as in Europe, but astounding affluence is passed on in privileged families, and this makes all the difference. Studies in the 1970s found that a child of the elite and a child of the working class may start out with similar intelligence and drive, but the rich child is about 30 times more likely to prosper. The rich child goes to high-prestige schools, where his or her education may be only slightly above average, but where the child accumulates friendships with future leaders. The privileged child becomes comfortable with luxury and is at ease in situations where powerful people meet. The working-class child from a less-prestigious college is not likely to wind up impoverished, but neither is he or she likely to attend many parties of Yale orVassar alumni.

Bonus Structure—The reference to studies in the 1970s indicates some objective evidence for the author's point.

 
1. Which sentence best expresses the essential information of this passage?
a. The American economy is unfair and must be changed.
b. Rich people have natural advantages in education and social contacts that help them succeed.
c. Children accept one another as friends; only later in life do differences of wealth drive them apart.
d. The only way to make money in America is to work and accumulate it yourself.
 
2. Why does the author of this reading mention Yale and Vassar?
a. They are elite schools attended by many future leaders.
b. They are where government officials have secret meetings.
c. They try to give working-class children a chance they can't get at other schools.
d. Their high fees impoverish working-class children.
 
Lesson 21   Wealth and Social Class
TOEFL Prep I      1. c 2. d 3. b 4. e 5. a
TOEFL Prep II    1. luxury 2. affluence 3. prestige 4. nobility 5. working class
TOEFL Success   1. b 2. a







LESSON 22
Personal Property
Target Words
1. acquire
2. assess
3. asset
4. hazardous
5. jointly
6. lease
7. liability
8. proprietor
9. safeguard
10. sole
Definitions and Samples
 
1. acquire v.   To get something, usually something with special value or meaning
Bart hoped to acquire the 1898 D Indian Head penny, which would make his collection complete.
Usage tips   Unlike get, acquire implies that a possession has special value or meaning.
Parts of speech   acquisition n, acquisitive adj
 
2. assess v.   To estimate the value of something
The Barnes building was assessed at $1.3 million, but it can probably sell for much more than that.
Parts of speech   assessor n, assessment n
 
3. asset n.   A possession that has positive value
For a typical family, their home is their most valuable asset and their car is the next most valuable.
Usage tips   Some examples of assets are real estate, cash, and stock shares.
 
4. hazardous adj.   Dangerous
Parents have to be careful not to buy children's clothes and toys made of hazardous materials.
Parts of speech   hazard n, hazardously adv
 
5. jointly adv.   Together with one or more other parties
In most states, a husband and wife are assumed to own all their possessions jointly.
Parts of speech   join v, joint n
 
6. lease v.   To rent something for a long time (several months or years)
Some drivers prefer to lease a car rather than buy one.
Parts of speech   lease n, lessor n, lessee n
 
7. liability n.   Legal responsibility for harming a person or property; a disadvantage
Before you go river rafting, you sign a document releasing the trip leaders from liability in case of injury.
Henderson is just a liability to our work team, because he never finishes anything on time.
Usage tips   In its second meaning, liability is often followed by a to phrase.
Parts of speech   liable adj
 
8. proprietor n.   Owner, usually of a business or a building
The proprietor of Hekman's Windows is Nels Hekman, grandson of the people who established the factory.
Usage tips   Very often, proprietor is followed by an of phrase.
Parts of speech   proprietary adj
 
9. safeguard v.   To protect
A burglar-alarm system safeguards our house when we go away on vacation.
Usage tips   Safeguard implies continuous protection over a long time.
 
10. sole adj.   Only
Many people have wanted to invest in Harry's publishing business, but he remains the sole owner.
Usage tips   Sole almost always appears before the noun it modifies. It does not come after a linking verb like be.
Parts of speech   solely adv
TOEFL Prep I Find the word that is closest in meaning to each word in the left-hand column. Write the letter in the blank.

TOEFL Prep II Circle the word that best completes each sentence.
1. The building company is trying to (safeguard / acquire) the whole neighborhood so it can put up a mall.
2. To the average farm family, every child was (an asset / a liability), one more set of hands to gather eggs or plant beans.
3. Gary's Cookie Shop has to move because the owner of the building won't renew the (lease / asset).
4. The (hazardous / sole) adult influence on Sarah as she grew up was her grandmother.
5. Some people are born with the disease, but others (acquire / assess) it later in life.
TOEFL Success Read the passage to review the vocabulary you have learned. Answer the questions that follow.
It is not easy to make a living as the proprietor of apartment buildings. There is a huge initial expense, not only to acquire the properties but to assess the buildings and to remove any hazardous materials like lead-based paint. A landlord also has to buy the best liability insurance available just to safeguard the investment. Otherwise, one tragic accident could wipe out the value of the entire asset. Because of this expense, it's rare to find a sole individual owning such a property. The risk is more often taken on jointly by a group of investors who then split the profits from the leases.

Bonus Structure—It's rare is the opposite of "it's common."

 
1. What is the main idea of this reading?
a. Being a landlord is enjoyable.
b. It costs a lot of money to be a landlord.
c. Friendships can be destroyed by owning property jointly.
d. Income from leases is greater than a landlord's expenses.
 
2. Which of the following is not an expense mentioned in the reading?
a. property taxes
b. insurance
c. making the property safe
d. buying the building you hope to rent
 
Lesson 22   Personal Property
TOEFL Prep I      1. b 2. a 3. e 4. d 5. c
TOEFL Prep II    1. acquire 2. asset 3. lease 4. sole 5. acquire
TOEFL Success   1. b 2. a







LESSON 23
Employment
Target Words
1. compensate
2. dynamic
3. enterprising
4. exploit
5. incentive
6. industrious
7. marginal
8. merit
9. promote
10. resign
Definitions and Samples
 
1. compensate v.   To give an employee money or other things in exchange for the work he or she does
My pay doesn't properly compensate me for my efforts, but my other benefits, like health insurance, fill in the gap.
Usage tips   Compensate is often followed by a for phrase.
Parts of speech   compensation n, compensatory adj
 
2. dynamic adj.   Full of energy
This job requires a dynamic person, someone who will look for opportunities instead of just waiting around for them.
Parts of speech   dynamism n, dynamically adv
 
3. enterprising adj.   Creative in thinking of ways to make money
Immigrants are often among the most enterprising members of society, partly because anyone brave enough to make an overseas move is likely to be a risk-taker.
Parts of speech   enterprise n (Note: There is no verb "to enterprise.")
 
4. exploit v.   To take advantage of; to treat inconsiderately in order to profit
The company tried to exploit the low interest rates to expand operations.
The foreign mining company exploited our copper resources and then simply left.
Parts of speech   exploitation n, exploitive adj
 
5. incentive n.   A possible benefit that motivates a person to do a certain thing
This city's willingness to support its public schools gave us an incentive to move here with our two young children.
Usage tips   Incentive is usually followed by a to phrase.
 
6. industrious adj.   Willing to work hard
The Dutch settlements in Ottawa County were founded by industrious farmers who objected to frivolous behavior such as dancing.
Usage tips   Only people can be industrious; companies cannot.
Parts of speech   industriousness n, industriously adv
 
7. marginal adj.   Not very significant or effective
Our new advertising campaign had only marginal success, raising sales by a mere 3 percent.
Parts of speech   marginally adv
 
8. merit n.   Value; success based on one's work, not on luck
Pay raises at our company are based on merit, as determined by a committee of managers.
Usage tips   Merit is uncountable.
Parts of speech   merit v, meritorious adj
 
9. promote v.   To move someone to a higher position in a company
Because of his excellent handling of the Vredeman account, Jim Harris was promoted to vice president.
Usage tips   Promote is very often followed by a to phrase indicating the position one has been moved up to.
Parts of speech   promotion n
 
10. resign v.   To quit one's job
Because of controversy over his leadership style, Morton resigned from his job as president.
Parts of speech   resignation n
TOEFL Prep I Find the word or phrase that is closest in meaning to each word in the left-hand column. Write the letter in the blank.

TOEFL Prep II Circle the word that best completes each sentence.
1. Some companies move their factories to poor countries in order to (exploit / compensate) the desperation of people who are willing to work for very low wages.
2. For the last five years, we've seen only (dynamic / marginal) improvements in our productivity.
3. Judging by actual money-generating (promotion / merit), Williams is the company's most valuable employee.
4. I had a lot of (compensation / incentive) to move to our new facility in Minnesota, because two of my brothers live there.
5. Unless my employer stops polluting local rivers, I'm going to (resign / exploit).
TOEFL Success Read the passage to review the vocabulary you have learned. Answer the questions that follow.
In the 1960s and 1970s, America was reaching the end of its role as a manufacturing power. Old-style systems of compensation, especially company pension plans, were impoverishing many companies. Much to the disadvantage of less-industrious workers, companies started demanding merit, not just seniority, before someone could be promoted. Many managers who were only marginally effective were encouraged to resign. These changes were painful, but unavoidable, symptoms of a growth spurt in the U.S. economy. Economies grow and change just as people do. A truly enterprising businessperson knows how to exploit these large changes and become involved in tomorrow's dynamic businesses, not yesterday's. There's still plenty of money to be made in America, a very effective incentive for workers to adapt to new conditions.

Bonus Structure—Especially introduces an outstanding example.

 
1. Which sentence best expresses the essential information of this passage?
a. Most companies cannot afford to compensate their employees like they used to.
b. Anyone interested in making a lot of money should move to the United States.
c. The 1960s and 1970s were times of great change for the American economy.
d. Just as retailers adapt to economic change, so must manufacturers.
 
2. The author of this article expresses a negative opinion about _________.
a. businesspersons
b. workers who depended on seniority for promotion
c. companies that exploit changes in the economy
d. the American economy as a whole
 
Lesson 23   Employment
TOEFL Prep I      1. e 2. c 3. a 4. b 5. d
TOEFL Prep II    1. exploit 2. marginal 3. merit 4. incentive 5. resign
TOEFL Success   1. c 2. b







LESSON 24
International Trade
Target Words
1. distill
2. entrepreneurial
3. extract
4. haggle
5. intrepid
6. merchant
7. proportionately
8. prototype
9. reward
10. shuttle
Definitions and Samples
 
1. distill v.   to remove one liquid from a mixture of liquids by boiling; to get something valuable from a confusing mix of ideas
The forest peoples of Southeast Asia distill an alcoholic drink called arak from a paste of palm berries.
Even though the professor's lectures are long and confusing, Brian can usually distill the main ideas from them.
Parts of speech   distillation n, distillery n
 
2. entrepreneurial adj.   Able to create business opportunities from a wide variety of circumstances
Many engineers of the 1970s made great computers, but only a few were entrepreneurial enough to see the business possibilities in the new machines.
Parts of speech   entrepreneur n
 
3. extract v.   To take out
International mining companies came to the Malay Peninsula to extract the region's massive tin deposits.
Parts of speech   extraction n, extractor n
 
4. haggle v.   To argue back and forth about a price
The customer and the shopkeeper haggled over the silver plate for more than an hour.
Usage tips   Haggle is often followed by a phrase with over or about.
Parts of speech   haggler n
 
5. intrepid adj.   Fearless
For nearly 200 years, only the most intrepid colonists would cross the Appalachian Mountains.
 
6. merchant n.   A person who makes a living by selling things
The spice merchants of the eastern markets charged top prices to the Dutch and British sailors, who had come too far to sail away without buying.
Usage tips   The word merchant might be preceded by another noun telling what the merchant sells (e.g., spice merchant or wine merchant).
Parts of speech   merchandise v, merchandise n, mercantile adj
 
7. proportionately adv.   In an amount appropriate to each of several recipients
The food aid was distributed proportionately per family, with larger families receiving more.
Parts of speech   proportion n, proportionate adj, proportionally adv
 
8. prototype n.   The first one made of a machine or system
The airplane manufacturer uses robots to test every prototype, just in case there is a problem with the design.
 
9. reward n.   Something one gets for having done well
The greatest reward of being a parent is to see your child make a wise decision.
Usage tips   Reward might be followed by an of or for phrase naming what one has done well.
Parts of speech   reward v
 
10. shuttle v.   To move back and forth often between two places
The small jet shuttles between Kuala Lumpur and Singapore nearly every two hours.
Parts of speech   shuttle n
TOEFL Prep I Find the word or phrase that is closest in meaning to each word in the left-hand column. Write the letter in the blank.

TOEFL Prep II Circle the word that best completes each sentence.
1. To avoid disease, many people drink only (distilled / extracted) water, which has been boiled to evaporation and then recondensed on a cold surface.
2. Most business travelers do not find it exciting to (haggle / shuttle) between one location and another.
3. According to the laws in this state, tobacco can be sold only by certain licensed (merchants / entrepreneurs) at special tobacco stores.
4. One early (reward / prototype) of the computer was called ENIAC and was as big as an average-sized laboratory.
5. The children were punished (intrepidly / proportionately), with the leaders getting greater penalties than those who simply followed along.
TOEFL Success Read the passage to review the vocabulary you have learned. Answer the questions that follow.
Tomatoes, potatoes, and hot peppers, all originally from South or Central America, are among several plants that have disproportionately influenced cooking around the world. This happened only after a few intrepid eaters got beyond common fears about potatoes, tomatoes, and other products. Entrepreneurial hunters for new food products hardly knew what they were haggling for when they tried to extract from foreign markets goods that would sell well at home. Shuttling between Europe and exotic lands, Italians, Spaniards, and Britons in particular brought back food prototypes that were not obviously good things to eat—cinnamon bark, cousins of the dreaded nightshade (tomatoes), and even the pollen from a crocus flower (saffron). As a glance at international cookbooks will show, many creative merchants were well rewarded not just with financial success, but with culture-changing influence.

Bonus Structure—As a glance at introduces evidence for the author's claim.

 
1. According to this reading, why did merchants have "culture-changing influence"?
a. They found new ways to get from one country to another.
b. Many of the plants they sold were poisonous and killed off some populations.
c. They made it possible for cultures to develop new dishes.
d. They spread European cooking habits around the world.
 
2. Cinnamon, tomatoes, and saffron are mentioned to make the point that_________.
a. many of the new plants merchants introduced were from Asia
b. some strange-looking foods from odd sources were eventually accepted
c. nightshade was unfairly dreaded by Europeans
d. nearly every part of a plant can be turned into a kind of food 
 
Lesson 24   International Trade
TOEFL Prep I      1. c 2. a 3. d 4. e 5. b
TOEFL Prep II    1. distilled 2. shuttle 3. merchants 4. prototype 5. proportionately
TOEFL Success   1. c 2. b








Government and Justice








LESSON 25
Politics
Target Words
1. advocate
2. authority
3. bitterly
4. candidate
5. coalition
6. contest
7. election
8. inaugurate
9. policy
10. poll
Definitions and Samples
 
1. advocate v.   To speak out in favor of something
Some environmentalists advocate removing large dams from the Columbia River.
Usage tips   Advocate is usually followed by a term for a process or action, very often the -ing form of a verb
Parts of speech   advocate n, advocacy n
 
2. authority n.   The power to make decisions, to tell others what to do.
The governor has the authority to call the legislature together for emergency sessions.
Usage tips   A to phrase often follows authority.
Parts of speech   authorize v, authoritative adj
 
3. bitterly adv.   Strongly and with a lot of bad feelings
Senator Thomas bitterly opposed the movement to design a new state flag.
Parts of speech   bitterness n, bitter adj
 
4. candidate n.   Someone who wants to be chosen, especially in an election, for a position
In most U.S. elections, there are only two major-party candidates for president.
Usage tips   Candidate is often followed by a for phrase.
Parts of speech   candidacy n
 
5. coalition n.   A group of several different groups or countries that are working together to achieve a certain goal.
Several local churches, mosques, synagogues, and temples formed a coalition to promote understanding among people of different religions.
 
6. contest v.   To challenge
Dave Roper, who narrowly lost the mayor's race, contested the results, demanding a recount of the votes.
Usage tips   The noun contest can mean a game, especially one played for a prize.
Parts of speech   contest n
 
7. election n.   A process in which people choose officials
Because of problems with vote-counting four years ago, international observers monitored this year's election to make sure it was fair.
Parts of speech   elect v, elective adj
 
8. inaugurate v.   To bring into public office; to start formally
The U.S. president is elected in November but is not inaugurated until the following January.
An effort to bring electric service to farms and small towns was inaugurated with the Rural Electrification Act of 1936.
Usage tips   When it means "bring into public office," inaugurate is usually in the passive voice.
Parts of speech   inauguration n, inaugural adj
 
9. policy n.   An approved way for approaching a certain kind of situation
The policy said that government money could not be given to any private hospital.
 
10. poll v.   To find out a small group's opinion so that you can guess what a much larger group thinks
The newspaper polled 500 registered voters and found that only 27 percent were in favor of expanding the city zoo.
Parts of speech   poll n, pollster n
TOEFL Prep I Find the phrase that best describes each word in the left-hand column. Write the letter in the blank.

TOEFL Prep II Complete each sentence by filling in each blank with the best word from the list. Change the form of the word if necessary. Use each word only once.
advocated   bitterly   contest   inaugurated   polled
 
1. In the early twentieth century, politicians fought _________ about whether the U.S. dollar should be based on gold.
2. Only one month after he was _________, President Harrison fell sick and died.
3. My opponent says that I cheated on my taxes. I _________ that charge, and I will prove him wrong.
4. Their predictions about the election results were not very accurate because they _________ too few people in advance.
5. Last year, the Freedom Party _________ giving medical treatment even to people who could not pay for it.
TOEFL Success Read the passage to review the vocabulary you have learned. Answer the questions that follow.
In the history of U.S. presidential elections, the year 1876 stands out as one of the oddest. That year, polls suggested that one person had won the popular vote but another had won more official electoral votes—just as happened in the year 2000. In 1876, however, the election was so bitterly contested that a special electoral commission was given the authority to determine which candidate—Republican Rutherford B. Hayes or Democrat Samuel J. Tilden—had won. This commission represented a coalition of interests. The Democrats favored this because otherwise the head of the Senate, Republican Thomas Ferry, would probably have been allowed to declare the winner. In the end, the Democrats were disappointed, as the commission advocated the Republican cause. The situation was not settled until March 2 of 1877, only three days before the scheduled inauguration of a new president—Hayes, as it turned out. Only then did America find out who its new leader would be. Americans seem not to have learned many lessons from 1876, however, because in 2000 there was still no official policy on how to settle an election that hung on a few contested votes. The problem was settled (by the Supreme Court) much faster in 2000, but still, no real system had been set up to deal with the situation.

Bonus Structure—As it turned out is an adverbial clause indicating an eventual resolution of a long-standing problem.

 
1. In what way was the 1876 election even odder than that in 2000?
a. It happened much earlier.
b. It involved only two major candidates.
c. One person won the popular vote and another won the electoral vote.
d. The uncertainty over who would win the presidency lasted many months.
 
2. Who decided the outcome of the 1876 election?
a. a special electoral commission
b. Thomas Ferry
c. the Supreme Court
d. Rutherford B. Hayes
 
Lesson 25   Politics
TOEFL Prep I      1. d 2. c 3. b 4. e 5. a
TOEFL Prep II    1. bitterly 2. inaugurated 3. contest 4. polled 5. advocated
TOEFL Success   1. d 2. a







LESSON 26
A Reasonable Doubt
Target Words
1. accuse
2. allegedly
3. civil
4. convict
5. guilty
6. offense
7. peer
8. suspect
9. verdict
10. witness
Definitions and Samples
 
1. accuse v.   To say that someone did something wrong (e.g., committed a crime)
Jordan was accused of using a stolen credit card to buy about $300 worth of electronic equipment.
Usage tips   Accuse is often in the passive voice; also it is often followed by of.
Parts of speech   accusation n, accuser n
 
2. allegedly adv.   According to what people say
The chief financial officer of the company allegedly took company money for his personal use.
Parts of speech   allege v, allegation n
 
3. civil adj.   Involving a dispute between two citizens, not a criminal charge
In a civil suit against his neighbor, Barney claimed that the neighbor's dog had bitten him.
Usage tips   In a court context, civil almost always appears in one of the following phrases: civil suit, civil action, civil court, civil proceedings, and civil penalties.
 
4. convict v.   To decide that someone is guilty of a crime
Dean was convicted of assault after the jury saw a video of him striking another man.
Usage tips   Convict is often in the passive voice; also, it is often followed by of.
Parts of speech   convict n, conviction n
 
5. guilty adj.   Responsible for doing something bad
The jury found that the director was guilty of embezzlement.
Usage tips   Guilty is often followed by an of phrase that names a crime or bad deed.
Parts of speech   guilt n, guiltily adv
 
6. offense n.   A specific act that breaks the law
Convicted twice of reckless driving, Victor will lose his license if he commits another serious traffic offense.
Parts of speech   offender n, offensive adj
 
7. peer n.   A person who is one's social equal
In requiring judgment by "a jury of one's peers," U.S. law meant to protect lower-class defendants from the possibly biased judgment of upper-class juries.
 
8. suspect n.   Someone who, in the opinion of the police, might have committed a certain crime
The police were investigating the activities of five suspects in the liquor-store robbery.
Parts of speech   suspect v, suspicion n, suspicious adj, suspiciously adv
 
9. verdict n.   A judgment in a court case
It took the jury only 30 minutes to reach a verdict of "guilty."
Usage tips   Verdict is often the object of the verbs reach or arrive at.
 
10. witness v.   To see something, especially a crime, happen
After witnessing the car theft, Rodney called the police.
Parts of speech   witness n
TOEFL Prep I Find the word or phrase that is closest in meaning to each word in the left-hand column. Write the letter in the blank.

TOEFL Prep II Circle the word that best completes each sentence.
1. The most likely (suspect / witness) in the murder was the victim's brother, but no one actually saw the crime.
2. The new president (allegedly / guiltily) had his main opponents killed, but he denies it.
3. At one time in the United States, possession of marijuana was a minor (verdict / offense).
4. The (witness / peer) made a poor impression on the jury because he couldn't remember many details about the crime scene.
5. Juries are instructed to arrive at a unanimous (verdict / convict), one agreeable to all members of the jury.
TOEFL Success Read the passage to review the vocabulary you have learned. Answer the questions that follow.
One of the most controversial murder cases of the twentieth century was that involving the death of Marilyn Sheppard in 1954. Her husband, Dr. Sam Sheppard, was accused of killing her and then injuring himself. An unlikely suspect, Sheppard was highly respected by his peers in the medical world. Still, there were odd aspects to the murder that Sheppard could not explain away. Unfortunately for Sheppard, none of his supporters actually witnessed the crime, so nobody could back up Sheppard's claim that the real killer was a bushy-haired man whom Sheppard had chased across his lawn and fought with briefly.
Sheppard was eventually convicted of the offense, but many people doubted the verdict. With aggressive help from a lawyer named F. Lee Bailey, Sheppard got a new trial. Bailey suggested many alternatives to Sheppard's guilt, enough that the new jury could not say he was guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. Sheppard was released from prison but died soon afterward. His son, Chip, pursued the case through several civil and criminal proceedings in an attempt to find out the truth about his mother's murder. Late in the 1990s, new DNA analysis techniques proved that someone other than Sam Sheppard and his family had been in the house that night. Sheppard's story about the bushy-haired man had probably been accurate all along.

Bonus Structure—The clause containing but and doubt signals that arguments against the verdict will be given.

 
1. Why was the Sheppard case unusual?
a. A husband was accused of murdering his wife.
b. The murder occurred in 1954.
c. Doubt about the guilty verdict led to a second trial.
d. The accused murderer said he didn't do it.
 
2. The author of this article implies that Sam Sheppard _______________
a. did not kill his wife
b. lied about the bushy-haired man
c. did not love his wife
d. married again after he got out of prison 
 
Lesson 26   A Reasonable Doubt
TOEFL Prep I      1. e 2. a 3. d 4. b 5. c
TOEFL Prep II    1. suspect 2. allegedly 3. offense 4. witness 5. verdict
TOEFL Success   1. c 2. a







LESSON 27
The Police
Target Words
1. apprehend
2. ascertain
3. bureaucratic
4. condemn
5. evidence
6. implicate
7. inquiry
8. intrusively
9. seize
10. surveillance
Definitions and Samples
 
1. apprehend v.   To capture
The police apprehended the robbery suspect as he tried to get on a bus to Chicago.
Parts of speech   apprehension n
 
2. ascertain v.   To make sure of
The police failed to ascertain that the man they arrested was the Gregory Brown they were really looking for.
Usage tips   Ascertain is often followed by a that clause. Notice that the root of the word is the adjective certain, meaning "sure."
 
3. bureaucratic adj.   Related to a large organization with a lot of complicated procedures
Before I could speak with the chief, I had to go through a bureaucratic runaround of identity checks and written requests. unnecessarily complicated.
Parts of speech   bureaucracy n, bureaucrat n
 
4. condemn v.   To speak out against something in very strong terms
Religious radicals condemned the government for allowing alcohol to be sold in restaurants.
Parts of speech   condemnation n
 
5. evidence n.   Something that makes the truth of a statement seem more likely
The most convincing evidence that Garner robbed the store was a videotape from surveillance cameras.
Parts of speech   evidence v, evident adj, evidently adv
 
6. implicate v.   To suggest that someone was involved in a crime or other wrong behavior
No group claimed responsibility for the bombing, but the type of explosive used implicates the Heartland Freedom Militia.
Usage tips   Implicate is often followed by in.
Parts of speech   implication n
 
7. inquiry n.   An investigation
The FBI launched an inquiry into the relationship between organized crime and the trucking company.
Parts of speech   inquire v
 
8. intrusively adv.   In a way that brings an unwanted person or thing into someone else's affairs
The new consultant from company headquarters appeared intrusively at meetings, staff parties, and other functions where he was not wanted.
Parts of speech   intrude v, intrusion n, intruder n, intrusive adj
 
9. seize v.   To take something against its owner's will
Federal agents can seize private homes and other property possibly used in the production or sale of illegal drugs.
Parts of speech   seizure n
 
10. surveillance n.   A process of watching something or someone for a long time, usually because the person is suspected of something
Police surveillance of one suspected car thief resulted in the arrest of a whole gang of carjackers.
Usage tips   Surveillance is often followed by an of phrase.
TOEFL Prep I Find the word or phrase that is closest in meaning to the opposite of each word in the left-hand column. Write the letter in the blank.

TOEFL Prep II Complete each sentence by filling in the blank with the best word from the list. Change the form of the word if necessary. Use each word only once.
apprehend   evidence   implicate   inquiry   surveillance
 
1. Officials could not _________ Basil because people in villages and towns throughout the country were willing to hide him.
2. During their _________ of O'Brien's house, detectives took pictures of anyone walking or driving past the house.
3. Until we finish our _________ into the disappearance of the cash, all employees are suspects.
4. Even if there is _________, such as fingerprints, that might _________ someone in a crime, there might be other indications that the person is innocent.
TOEFL Success Read the passage to review the vocabulary you have learned. Answer the questions that follow.
The Fourth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution protects citizens from unreasonable search and seizure. Some civil libertarians have condemned the federal antidrug bureaucracy for threatening this basic right. In a drug case, police need no evidence to intrude on private property, apprehend a suspected dealer, and seize all the person's property. Property taken under this law may be sold for a profit later by the law-enforcement officials involved in the raid. The target of a raid might be implicated only by an unreliable report from an unfriendly neighbor. The police are not required to ascertain whether there's any physical evidence of drug activity at the site. In one case, surveillance of a large California property convinced local authorities to seize it—not because they saw drug activity but because the property was worth a lot of money. The property was taken, and its owner was shot trying to defend himself. A later inquiry determined that there were no illegal drugs on the property.

Bonus Structure—In one case introduces an example.

 
1. According to this reading, which of these activities does the author oppose?
a. marijuana possession
b. surveillance
c. property seizures
d. civil libertarians
 
2. Why does the author of this reading mention the Fourth Amendment?
a. because drug-related seizures seem to violate it
b. because it outlaws the use of certain drugs
c. because it has finally stopped the antidrug forces from seizing property
d. because he disagrees that Americans should be protected by it 
 
Lesson 27   The Police
TOEFL Prep I      1. d 2. a 3. c 4. e 5. b
TOEFL Prep II    1. apprehend 2. surveillance 3. inquiry 4. evidence, implicate
TOEFL Success   1. c 2. a







LESSON 28
Investigating Crimes
Target Words
1. analyze
2. assail
3. contrary
4. hypothesize
5. impair
6. inference
7. objectively
8. suspicious
9. tolerate
10. versus
Definitions and Samples
 
1. analyze v.   To examine something by looking at its parts
Chemists analyzed the white powder and found it to be only a mixture of sugar and salt.
Parts of speech   analysis n, analyst n
 
2. assail v.   To attack or criticize forcefully
With DNA evidence from the crime scene, the defense lawyer assailed the police for falsely arresting his client.
Parts of speech   assault n, assailant n
 
3. contrary adj.   Opposite
Contrary to most studies, Dr. Ito's work shows the world's climate is not getting warmer.
Usage tips   Common phrases are contrary to and on the contrary.
 
4. hypothesize v.   To make a guess, the correctness of which will eventually be investigated systematically.
Scientists hypothesize that planets capable of supporting life exist beyond our solar system, but they have not yet seen any.
Usage tips   Hypothesize is often followed by a that clause.
Parts of speech   hypothesis n, hypothetical adj
 
5. impair v.   To make something less effective than usual
The snow impaired John's ability to hear anyone's footsteps.
Usage tips   The object of impair is often [someone's] ability to.
Parts of speech   impairment n
 
6. inference n.   A conclusion drawn from evidence
Inspector Dowd's inference that Ms. Miller was South African was based on her accent.
Parts of speech   infer v
 
7. objectively adv.   Based on unbiased standards, not on personal opinion
I don't like Mr. Rowan, but looking objectively at his sales numbers, I saw that he was a very valuable employee.
Parts of speech   objective adj
 
8. suspicious adj.   Believing that something is wrong; acting in a way that makes people believe you have done something wrong
The neighbors became suspicious of Jim when he bought a big new car and some fancy clothes.
Jim's suspicious purchases made his neighbors think he might be getting money illegally.
Parts of speech   suspicion n, suspiciously adv
 
9. tolerate v.   To avoid getting upset about something
My math teacher tolerates a lot of talking in her class, but my history teacher tells us to be quiet.
Parts of speech   toleration n, tolerance n, tolerant adj
 
10. versus prep.   Against
In the debate, it was pro-war senators versus antiwar senators.
Usage tips   Versus is often abbreviated as vs. in sports contexts, or simply v. in legal contexts.
TOEFL Prep I Find the word or phrase that is closest in meaning to each word in the left-hand column. Write the letter in the blank.

TOEFL Prep II Circle the word that best completes each sentence.
1. Most police departments have laboratories, where scientists (assail / analyze) evidence according to scientific procedures.
2. The new police chief would not (tolerate / impair) any joking around in the police station.
3. Everyone assumed Travis was innocent, despite evidence to the (contrary / suspicious).
4. A judge who feels unable to think (versus / objectively) about a case should withdraw from it.
5. The bomb squad was called after a (suspicious / contrary) package was delivered to the governor's office.
TOEFL Success Read the passage to review the vocabulary you have learned. Answer the questions that follow.
In 1979, two British farmers reported that, while sitting on a hill, they suddenly saw the crops below flattened in a perfect circle. They inferred that some great force must have come down directly from above to squash the corn and barley. This started a public hysteria about so-called crop circles. The patterns pressed into the crops (not all of them were circles) seemed to have no entry or exit points. Many people hypothesized that only alien spaceships could make such bizarre imprints. Others, including Britain's police, assailed such wild conclusions. They had a contrary theory: Someone was playing a big hoax. Teams of investigators took samples of the plants and the soil, trying to objectively analyze the crop circles as if they were a crime scene. Public curiosity often impaired the investigators, who had to tolerate busloads of tourists flocking to the circles. The farmers in the area, long suspicious of the police, approached the case as an instance of police versus the people. If the local farmers knew the circles were a hoax, they wouldn't say so.

Bonus Structure—This refers to the whole situation described in the previous sentence, not to any one noun phrase.

 
1. According to the article, why did many people think that crop circles were created by alien spaceships?
a. The circles looked like they had been made from above and had no way in or out.
b. The observers in 1979 reported seeing a UFO land and make a crop circle.
c. The plants and soil inside a crop circle contained chemicals not naturally found on Earth.
d. They were in unusual shapes and contained alien symbols.
 
2. Why does the author mention "a hoax"?
a. because one of the locals admitted playing a trick on his neighbors
b. because most people think that crop circles are evil
c. because police investigators thought crop circles were made by humans as a joke
d. because crop circles are probably made by secret government aircraft
 
Lesson 28   Investigating Crimes
TOEFL Prep I      1. d 2. c 3. b 4. e 5. a
TOEFL Prep II    1. analyze 2. tolerate 3. contrary 4. objectively 5. suspicious
TOEFL Success   1. a 2. c







LESSON 29
Government Corruption
Target Words
1. bribery
2. cynically
3. erode
4. evade
5. grotesque
6. integrity
7. prevalent
8. reform
9. scandal
10. unmask
Definitions and Samples
 
1. bribery n.   Giving money or other gifts to a government official or other person in authority in order to get special privileges
Bribery of police officers is common in countries where police salaries are very low.
Parts of speech   bribe v, bribe n
 
2. cynically adv.   Disrespectfully; emphasizing the weaknesses of otherwise respected things
Employees of the Roadways Department cynically referred to their boss as "the banker" because he took so many bribes.
Parts of speech   cynic n, cynicism n, cynical adj
 
3. erode v.   To wear away and become smaller
People's respect for the government eroded as more officials were arrested for corruption.
Usage tips   Erode can be intransitive (the beach eroded) or transitive (the waves eroded the beach).
Parts of speech   erosion n, erosive adj
 
4. evade v.   To get away from something that tries to catch you
The robbery suspects tried to evade the police by fleeing to Canada.
Parts of speech   evasion n, evasive adj
 
5. grotesque adj.   Extremely unattractive, in a way that catches a lot of attention.
Spending $3.5 million to redecorate the governor's house is a grotesque misuse of public money.
 
6. integrity n.   Personal honesty and good character
We don't have a problem with our employees stealing from the store because we hire only people with a lot of integrity.
 
7. prevalent adj.   Common; easy to find because it exists in great amounts
Distrust of elected officials was prevalent in our county because many of them were friends with certain candidates.
Parts of speech   prevail v, prevalence n
 
8. reform v.   To make big improvements
The new law was an attempt to reform the system of giving money to political candidates.
Parts of speech   reform n, reformer n
 
9. scandal n.   A case of wrongdoing that hurts someone's reputation
In the Watergate scandal, some of the president's top advisors were revealed to be criminals.
Parts of speech   scandalize v, scandalous adj
 
10. unmask v.   Reveal; expose something that is hidden
The Forge Trucking Company was eventually unmasked as a front for organized crime.
TOEFL Prep I Find the word or phrase that is closest in meaning to the opposite of each word in the left-hand column. Write the letter in the blank.

TOEFL Prep II Circle the word that best completes each sentence.
1. The president resigned because a (scandal / bribery) made it impossible for him to lead.
2. Laws that let the police monitor criminals can (erode / evade) the privacy of innocent citizens too.
3. After Downforth Castle was bought by apartment developers, it became a (prevalent / grotesque) jumble of poorly built additions.
4. In some places, people who are pulled over for traffic offenses use (scandal / bribery) to avoid getting a ticket.
5. President Carazza came to office promising (reform / integrity) of the prison system.
TOEFL Success Read the passage to review the vocabulary you have learned. Answer the questions that follow.
In many countries, few politicians have enough integrity to resist corruption and bribery. Because such practices are so prevalent, officials often evade any personal sense of guilt by pretending that everyone is just as corrupt as they are. Even in cases of really grotesque corruption, the kind that might cause a scandal in a less-corrupt government, the general population may not be shocked. Instead, they may cynically conclude that government corruption is natural and unavoidable. In this environment, the efforts of an honest politician to unmask corruption may be eroded by the public's lack of interest, causing any efforts at reform to fail.

Bonus Structure—In this environment means "under these conditions."

 
1. Why do people in some countries not react negatively to corruption?
a. because they feel it cannot be avoided
b. because they want reform
c. because almost everyone in the government is corrupt
d. because they have paid money to gain influence
 
2. What effect might a small scandal have in a country where government corruption is not typical?
a. It could make someone very popular.
b. It could cause a politician to become cynical.
c. It could cost a lot of money.
d. It could cause a government official to lose his or her position.
 
Lesson 29   Government Corruption
TOEFL Prep I      1. a 2. e 3. b 4. d 5. c
TOEFL Prep II    1. scandal 2. erode 3. grotesque 4. bribery 5. reform
TOEFL Success   1. c 2. d







LESSON 30
Crimes at Sea
Target Words
1. abduction
2. coerce
3. detain
4. deviant
5. distort
6. intentionally
7. piracy
8. predicament
9. smuggle
10. villainy
Definitions and Samples
 
1. abduction n.   Kidnapping
Pirates got many crew members by abduction, snatching unlucky citizens from seaport towns.
Parts of speech   abduct v, abductor n
 
2. coerce v.   To force; to put pressure on someone to do something
A criminal's confession is not usable in court if the police coerce him or her into giving it.
Parts of speech   coercion n, coercive adj
 
3. detain v.   To prevent someone, for a relatively short time, from going on their way
The police detained at least 20 men for questioning, but charged none of them with a crime.
Parts of speech   detention n, detainee n
 
4. deviant adj.   In a style that is not normal and is offensive to many
The artist based his reputation on creating deviant works of art that disgusted most of the public.
Usage tips   Deviant always implies a bad opinion of someone or something.
Parts of speech   deviant n, deviation n, deviate v
 
5. distort v.   To twist or misrepresent; to make something seem different from what it really is
If you hold a pencil in a glass of water, the water distorts the appearance of the pencil.
Parts of speech   distortion n
 
6. intentionally adv.   On purpose, not by accident
Danny intentionally lost his last golf ball because he was tired of playing.
Parts of speech   intent n, intention n.   intend v, intentional adj
 
7. piracy n.   Stealing a ship or taking its cargo; the unlawful copying of books, music, film, etc.
Modern-day piracy occurs mostly near groups of small, uninhabited islands where pirates can hide.
The software company constantly battled piracy.
Parts of speech   pirate n, pirate v
 
8. predicament n.   A difficult situation, one that is hard to get out of
College basketball stars face the predicament of wanting to graduate but being tempted by high professional salaries.
 
9. smuggle v.   To illegally bring things into a country
The pirate Ben Dewar smuggled guns to British and Indian fighters in North America.
Parts of speech   smuggler n, smuggling n
 
10. villainy n.   Exceptional badness, as demonstrated by many serious evil deeds
Fred was not a natural criminal, but he learned all kinds of villainy while being jailed for a minor crime.
Parts of speech   villain n, villainous adj
TOEFL Prep I Find the word or phrase that is closest in meaning to the opposite of each word in the left-hand column. Write the letter in the blank.

TOEFL Prep II Choose the word from the list that is closest in meaning to the underlined part of each sentence. Write it in the blank.

TOEFL Success Read the passage to review the vocabulary you have learned. Answer the question that follows.
The Spanish explorer Pizarro's abduction of the Inca King Atahualpa came in 1529. His men detained the king, coerced the Incas into paying a large ransom in gold and silver, and then intentionally killed the king anyway. Their conquest of Peru established the legendary Spanish Main-Spanish holdings on the mainland of Central and South America. The predicament for Spain's kings was how to get the riches of the New World to Spain. Pirates and privateers ruled the waves. To distort what was actually just robbery, the king of England issued "letters of marque," licenses that turned certain pirates into agents of the British government. Their piracy against Spanish ships and Spanish gold was considered service to the king or queen of England.
Most pirates with such letters were social deviants anyway, and predictably, they became embarrassments to the British crown. In 1603, Britain's King James I canceled all his government's letters of marque. The many dangerous, unemployed pirates became buccaneers, a terrifying mix of tough characters that operated from the island of Hispaniola. They conducted merciless raids on Spanish settlements and formed a brotherhood known for theft, torture, smuggling, and villainy of all sorts.

Bonus Structure—Predictably means that the information that follows is no surprise.


An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting three answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. In each blank, write the letter of one of your choices.
 

 
a. Pizarro's men abducted King Atahualpa in 1529.
b. By issuing letters of marque, the kings of England gave their approval of raids on Spanish ships.
c. Piracy in the South China Sea was also a problem at this time.
d. Pirates who worked for the English crown were known as buccaneers.
e. Sailing under a letter of marque, a privateer could steal property in the king's name.
f. Eventually, the English crown was embarrassed by the behavior of its privateers and canceled the letters of marque.
 
Lesson 30   Crimes at Sea
TOEFL Prep I      1. c 2. a 3. e 4. b 5. d
TOEFL Prep II    1. predicament 2. smuggled 3. abducted 4. piracy 5. coerced
TOEFL Success   b, e, f







LESSON 31
The War on Drugs
Target Words
1. addictive
2. cartel
3. concentrated
4. interdict
5. juxtapose
6. misconception
7. modify
8. potent
9. residual
10. subtly
Definitions and Samples
 
1. addictive adj.   Making someone want it so much that the person feels ill without it
Some drugs, like heroin or methamphetamines, are addictive to almost everyone who tries them.
Parts of speech   addict v, addict n, addiction n
 
2. cartel n.   A small group controlling a certain area of business
The world's major oil producers formed a cartel to control the price and supply of petroleum.
 
3. concentrated adj.   Strong because large amounts are in a certain space
Concentrated lemon juice is very sour, so I mix it with water when I make lemonade.
Parts of speech   concentrate v, concentration n, concentrate n
 
4. interdict v.   To keep something from reaching a certain place
With faster patrol boats, the Coast Guard can more easily interdict drugs being smuggled by sea.
Parts of speech   interdiction n
 
5. juxtapose v.   Place next to one another
If you juxtapose these two similar flowers, you can see clear differences between them.
Parts of speech   juxtaposition n
 
6. misconception n.   A mistaken belief
A common misconception about rabbits is that they are a kind of rodent.
Parts of speech   misconceive v
 
7. modify v.   Make small changes in order to get a certain result
People who live in high mountains often modify their car engines to run well in the thinner air.
Parts of speech   modification n, modifier n
 
8. potent adj.   Powerful
A very potent type of marijuana with surprisingly strong effects became available in Burrytown.
Parts of speech   potency n
 
9. residual adj.   Left behind after most of a thing has gone
In the airplane, agents found residual traces of heroin.
Usage tips   Residual is often followed by trace, amount, or some other word referring to "quantity."
Parts of speech   residue n
 
10. subtly adv.   In a quiet, hard-to-notice way
By subtly changing the soft drink's formula, we improved its taste and made production cheaper.
Parts of speech   subtlety n, subtle adj
TOEFL Prep I Find the word or phrase that is closest in meaning to each word in the left-hand column. Write the letter in the blank.

TOEFL Prep II Circle the word that best completes each sentence.
1. With a (subtle / residual) nod of his head, the inspector signaled his agents.
2. Sunlight is a (concentrated / potent) source of energy for electricity generation, but it can be expensive to collect and store.
3. Things other than drugs can be (addictive / subtle), such as gambling or even television.
4. A security official tries to (modify / interdict) foreign terrorists before they can enter the country.
5. Your advertisement created the (misconception / cartel) that everything was on sale for 50 percent off.
TOEFL Success Read the passage to review the vocabulary you have learned. Answer the questions that follow.
Illegal addictive drugs, like heroin or cocaine, come from plants grown and harvested mostly by poor farmers. Their small farmhouses juxtaposed with the mansions of billionaire drug lords illustrate the unequal payouts to various players in the drug trade. The farmers sell their product cheaply to a drug-distribution cartel that is owned by the drug lords. People working for the cartel then refine the drugs into a concentrated form, or even modify them chemically to make them more potent and therefore more valuable. Other cartel members then transport the drugs to distributors for sale, smuggling them over huge distances, including international borders. Governments try to interdict smugglers, using both new technology and old (like sniffer dogs) to find residual traces of drugs. Their occasional successes have led to a popular misconception that antidrug campaigns are close to stopping the flow of illegal drugs. On the contrary, as long as drug lords can make vast fortunes in their illegal trade, smugglers will come up with ever-more-subtle ways of concealing their goods, and the War on Drugs goes on.

Bonus Structure—Because this reading describes a system of operations, the word then appears very often.

 
1. Who makes the most money from the drug trade?
a. rural farmers
b. people who refine drugs
c. drug lords
d. antidrug officers
 
2. Schematic table: Write the letter of each phrase in either column A or column B, based on which one it relates to according to the reading.

a. subtle ways of hiding drugs
b. sniffer dogs
c. high-tech detection
d. concentrate drugs to make them potent
e. pay farmers to grow plants that yield drugs
 
Lesson 31   The War on Drugs
TOEFL Prep I      1. e 2. a 3. c 4. b 5. d
TOEFL Prep II    1. subtle 2. potent 3. addictive 4. interdict 5. misconception
TOEFL Success   1. c 2. Column A: a, d, e Column B: b, c







Relationships








LESSON 32
Family Relationships
Target Words
1. ancestral
2. cohesion
3. descendant
4. inheritance
5. kin
6. legitimate
7. paternal
8. proximity
9. sentiment
10. sibling
Definitions and Samples
 
1. ancestral adj.   Relating to family members from earlier generations
Sweden is my ancestral homeland, from which my greatgrandfather emigrated in 1922.
Parts of speech   ancestor n, ancestry n
 
2. cohesion n.   Ability to stay together as a unit
Family cohesion is difficult if young people have to go far away to find work.
Usage tips   Cohesion can also be used to describe forces that keep materials or structures together.
Parts of speech   cohere v, cohesiveness n
 
3. descendant n.   A direct relative in a later generation (such as one's son, daughter, or grandchild)
Billy Sobieski claimed to be a descendant of Jan Sobieski, a former king of Poland.
Usage tips   Descendant is often followed by an of phrase.
Parts of speech   descend v, descent n
 
4. inheritance n.   Things passed down to you from your ancestors
My inheritance from my grandmother included her favorite necklace.
Parts of speech   inherit v, inheritor n
 
5. kin n.   Relatives
Even though my uncle didn't really like me, he was kind to me because we were kin.
Usage tips   A common phrase is next of kin, meaning "closest relative."
Parts of speech   kinship n
 
6. legitimate adj.   True and respectable; in the context of family, born of a mother and father who were married to each other
You can skip the meeting if you have a legitimate reason.
Harcourt had two legitimate children with his wife Hannah and one illegitimate son with a woman whom he met while traveling.
Usage tips   The opposite of legitimate is illegitimate.
Parts of speech   legitimize v, legitimacy n
 
7. paternal adj.   Relating to a father
My mother's parents have both died, but my paternal grandparents are still alive.
Usage tips   Paternal may appear with maternal, meaning "relating to a mother."
 
8. proximity n.   Nearness
The house was comfortable, except for its proximity to a busy road.
Usage tips   Proximity can be followed by an of phrase or a to phrase. Parts of speech   proximate adj
 
9. sentiment n.   Feelings; opinion based on feelings
I share your sentiments about air travel, but I disagree that cars are safer.
Usage tips   Sentiments (the plural) is more common than sentiment.
Parts of speech   sentimentality n, sentimental adj
 
10. sibling n.   Brother or sister
My siblings and I got together to buy our parents a gift for their anniversary.
Usage tips   Sibling is often preceded by a possessive noun or pronoun.
TOEFL Prep I Find the word or phrase that is closest in meaning to each word in the left-hand column. Write the letter in the blank.

TOEFL Prep II Complete each sentence by filling in the blank with the best word from the list. Change the form of the word if necessary. Use each word only once.
cohesion   inheritance   kin   proximity   siblings
1. You can't expect to have family _________ if the members don't respect each other.
2. In our family, the _________ who are closest in age get along the best.
3. If someone dies without a will, the possessions usually go to the next of _________.
4. Medical bills in his last year greatly reduced the _________ going to Tom's wife.
5. Legally, parents have the same _________ of relationship to an adopted child as to their biological children.
TOEFL Success Read the passage to review the vocabulary you have learned. Answer the questions that follow.
The nature of the family varies widely from culture to culture. In some societies, family members tend to stay in close proximity to their kin, never moving more than a few miles away from the ancestral home. In other places, while the members of one generation may all live near one another, their descendants in the next generation scatter widely. In such a case, it's difficult to maintain the same family cohesion enjoyed by those who live close together. Sometimes marriage can govern family structure; for example, there may be strict traditions requiring a new bride to leave her paternal home and siblings to move in with her new husband's family. Such traditions are followed, even by young couples who don't like them, because going against them is likely to result in the loss of inheritance. Whatever one's own sentiments about family structure, it is important to recognize that one culture's family system is as legitimate as another's.
 
1. Which of the following best states the main idea of this passage?
a. Different family systems can be found worldwide, but each one deserves respect.
b. Societies in which children move far away from their parents are not very cohesive.
c. Although some societies still require a wife to move in with her husband's family, this tradition is dying out.
d. The most important factor in family happiness is close proximity to your relatives.
 
2. According to this reading, which family system is most common?
a. Members of a family living in the same community.
b. Family members spreading out and living in various cities.
c. Young couples living with the man's parents.
d. It is impossible to tell from this reading. 
 
Lesson 32   Family Relationships
TOEFL Prep I      1. e 2. b 3. d 4. a 5. c
TOEFL Prep II    1. cohesion 2. siblings 3. kin 4. inheritance 5. proximity
TOEFL Success   1. a 2. d







LESSON 33
Friendship
Target Words
1. affection
2. associate
3. bond
4. clique
5. confide
6. exclusive
7. fluctuate
8. in common
9. solidarity
10. willing
Definitions and Samples
 
1. affection n.   An emotional closeness or warmth
I show affection for my girlfriend by spending time with her, not by spending money on her.
Usage tips   Affection is often followed by a for phrase.
Parts of speech   affectionate adj
 
2. associate v.   To regularly spend time together
Carol doesn't associate with people who smoke.
Usage tips   Associate is often followed by a with phrase.
Parts of speech   association n, associate n
 
3. bond n.   A close connection
Some researchers say that there is an especially strong emotional bond between twins.
Usage tips   A between or among phrase—indicating the people or things that are connected—often follows bond.
Parts of speech   bond v
 
4. clique n.   A small group of friends who are unfriendly to people outside the group
High-schoolers form cliques to gain security and acceptance.
Usage tips   Clique indicates a negative feeling toward a group.
Parts of speech   cliquish adj
 
5. confide v.   To tell very personal things
Teenagers are more willing to confide in a friend than in a parent.
Usage tips   Confide is almost always followed by an in phrase.
Parts of speech   confidence n, confidant n, confidential adj
 
6. exclusive adj.   Keeping out all but a few people
The most exclusive universities accept only a small percentage of people who want to attend.
Usage tips   In advertisements, exclusive has a positive tone ("so good that only a few people can have it"); in describing relationships ("attached to only one person") the tone is neutral.
Parts of speech   exclude v, exclusion n, exclusively adv
 
7. fluctuate v.   To change often, from one condition to another
Earth's climate fluctuates between warm periods and cold periods.
Usage tips   Fluctuate is usually followed by a between phrase (or by a from ... to structure).
Parts of speech   fluctuation n
 
8. in common adv.   As a shared characteristic
Billy and Heather have a lot in common—basketball, a love of pizza, and an interest in snakes.
Usage tips   In common very often appears with the verb to have.
 
9. solidarity n.   Standing together despite pressure to move apart
Many student groups declared solidarity with the Latino Student Association in their effort to get a Spanish-speaking principal.
Usage tips   Solidarity is usually used in political contexts.
 
10. willing adj.   Agreeable and ready to do something
Because of their long friendship, Professor Gardner was willing to say a few words at Jones's birthday celebration.
Usage tips   Willing is almost always followed by a to + verb structure.
Parts of speech   will v, will n, willingness n
TOEFL Prep I Find the word or phrase that is closest in meaning to each word in the left-hand column. Use each letter only once.

TOEFL Prep II Circle the word or phrase that best completes each sentence.
1. Charles is (exclusive / willing) to be friends with Dory, but he is already dating another girl.
2. If I (associate / confide) in you, do you promise to keep what I say a secret?
3. When it comes to weather, Minnesota and North Dakota have a lot (in common / in a bond).
4. One of the main reasons to go to an exclusive college is that you get to (associate / fluctuate) with some of the country's future leaders.
5. The court said that the club's membership rules were unjustly (willing / exclusive) because they kept out people of certain ethnic groups.
TOEFL Success Read the passage to review the vocabulary you have learned. Answer the questions that follow.
You can walk into any high school and spot the cliques: the jocks hang out here, the geeks there, the Goths and preppies in their areas. Teenagers feel a strong need to belong to a group, to associate with people with whom they share common interests or goals. Since adolescence is often a time when teens feel turmoil in their home lives, they seek affection and friendship outside the home. They look for other young people to bond with when their parents don't seem to "understand." Teens going through the various crises of adolescence can more easily confide in others their own age, with whom they have more in common. Teen cliques are by no means exclusive; membership can fluctuate on an almost daily basis, but the important thing is that group members feel a sense of solidarity and are willing to stick together.
 
1. According to the reading, why do adolescents search for friendship outside the home?
a. They want to be accepted by the jocks and Goths.
b. They think their parents don't understand the problems they face.
c. They want to be in a different clique every day.
d. They want to talk about their parents with other teenagers.
 
2. According to the reading, do teens stay in the same groups all the time?
a. Yes, because their parents want them to.
b. Yes, because they share common interests.
c. No, they may move from group to group quite frequently.
d. No, most groups don't accept new members.
 
Lesson 33   Friendship
TOEFL Prep I      1. a 2. d 3. e 4. b 5. c
TOEFL Prep II    1. willing 2. confide 3. in common 4. associate 5. exclusive
TOEFL Success   1. b 2. c







LESSON 34
Passion
Target Words
1. complex
2. despondent
3. devotion
4. dilemma
5. engender
6. loyal
7. passion
8. proliferation
9. reciprocity
10. vanish
Definitions and Samples
 
1. complex adj.   Not simple; involving many parts that work together
A modern car engine is too complex for most car owners to repair by themselves.
Parts of speech   complexity n
 
2. despondent adj.   Extremely sad and without hope for the future
After his girlfriend left him, Johnson was despondent and wouldn't talk to anyone.
 
3. devotion n.   A willingness to keep supporting someone you admire
Grant showed great devotion to his wife, supporting her during her long illness.
Usage tips   Devotion is often followed by a to phrase.
Parts of speech   devote v, devotee n
 
4. dilemma n.   A difficult choice between two things
I was caught in a dilemma between traveling by airplane and taking a train, which is slower but more comfortable.
 
5. engender v.   To bring into being; to cause to exist
The government's warnings about terrorism engendered fear throughout the nation.
Usage tips   Engender is often followed by a noun for an emotion.
 
6. loyal adj.   Faithful
Carter was loyal to his girlfriend and would not date anyone else.
Usage tips   Loyal is often followed by a to phrase.
Parts of speech   loyalty n, loyally adv
 
7. passion n.   An extremely strong emotion, like love or anger
Debbie complained that there was no passion in her marriage.
Parts of speech   passionate adj, passionately adv
 
8. proliferation n.   An increase in the number of something and in the number of places it can be found
The proliferation of fast-food restaurants has made it harder for Americans to eat healthy lunches.
Usage tips   Proliferation is very often followed by an of phrase.
Parts of speech   proliferate v
 
9. reciprocity n.   Doing as much for another as he or she has done for you
Dan was giving a lot of attention to Kelly, but he felt no reciprocity in their relationship.
Parts of speech   reciprocate v, reciprocal adj
 
10. vanish v.   To disappear suddenly
When the sun came out, last night's light snowfall vanished.
TOEFL Prep I Find the word or phrase that is closest in meaning to the opposite of each word in the left-hand column. Write the letter in the blank.

TOEFL Prep II Choose the word from the list that is closest in meaning to the underlined part of each sentence. Write it in the blank.

TOEFL Success Read the passage to review the new vocabulary you have learned. Answer the questions that follow.
Perhaps no emotion is more complex than passion. Passion can show itself in a negative way as a burst of anger, or in a more pleasant way, as love. Passion can engender blind devotion for a lover or plunge a person into despondent misery if he or she feels a lack of reciprocity in the relationship. Passion and love cause innumerable dilemmas, and people constantly seek out ways to understand these emotions, as evidenced by the proliferation of articles, books, talk shows, and Web pages devoted to relationships. Many of these forums have loyal followings and have become cultural fixtures. The endless flow of information and opinions about the complex situations aroused by passion will probably not vanish anytime soon.
 
1. According to this article, which statement about passion is true?
a. It can have good or bad effects.
b. It can be easily explained.
c. It helps people decide what to do.
d. It is irrational.
 
2. According to the reading, why are there so many books and other works about passion?
a. because people want a lot of advice about love
b. because many people want to write about their own passion
c. because reading about passion is relaxing
d. because passion can also show itself as a burst of anger
 
Lesson 34   Passion
TOEFL Prep I      1. b 2. a 3. e 4. c 5. d
TOEFL Prep II    1. reciprocity 2. passion 3. despondent 4. engender 5. devotion to
TOEFL Success   1. a 2. a







LESSON 35
Negative Emotions
Target Words
1. antipathy
2. arrogantly
3. berate
4. contemptuous
5. despise
6. humiliation
7. obnoxious
8. shame
9. stigmatize
10. vitriolic
Definitions and Samples
 
1. antipathy n.   A strong, long-lasting negative feeling
My antipathy toward telemarketers is so strong that I am often rude to them.
Usage tips   Antipathy is often followed by a toward phrase.
 
2. arrogantly adv.   In a way that shows a high opinion of oneself and a low opinion of others
Jenny told us about her party only one day in advance, arrogantly thinking we had nothing else to do.
Parts of speech   arrogance n, arrogant adj
 
3. berate v.   To say insulting and disrespectful things
The teacher lost his job because he cruelly berated students who made mistakes.
Usage tips   You can only berate someone directly—only when he or she can hear you.
 
4. contemptuous n.   Having no respect
Most scientists are contemptuous of reports that aliens from outer space have landed on the Earth.
Usage tips   A very common structure is be contemptuous of.
Parts of speech   contempt n, contemptible adj, contemptuously adv
 
5. despise v.   Hate very much
Tom grew to despise his greedy and unfriendly boss.
 
6. humiliation n.   An event that causes someone to feel that she or he has lost the respect of others
Losing the chess tournament was a great humiliation for Marie, and she never played chess again.
Parts of speech   humiliate v
 
7. obnoxious adj.   Bothersome; doing small things that others don't like
My obnoxious neighbor keeps talking to me while I'm trying to read in my backyard.
Parts of speech   obnoxiously adv
 
8. shame n.   Dishonor because of being associated with a mistake or bad behavior
Feeling deep shame because of their son's crimes, the Ford family moved to a different town.
Usage tips   Shame is often followed by an of or about phrase.
Parts of speech   shame v, shameful adj, ashamed adj, shamefully adv
 
9. stigmatize v.   To mark with a visible feature that makes other people think, perhaps incorrectly, that someone or something is wrong
Cadbury's beard and tattoos stigmatized him as a bad match for Wall Street, so he couldn't find work as a financial analyst.
Parts of speech   stigma n
 
10. vitriolic adj.   Showing an extreme, hateful anger
The mayor's vitriolic attacks against the city council only made him sound unreasonable.
Usage tips   The origin of vitriolic is "vitriol," a strong chemical that could cause painful burns.
TOEFL Prep I Find the word or phrase that is closest in meaning to each word in the left-hand column. Write the letter in the blank.

TOEFL Prep II Circle the word that best completes each sentence. Be careful: Many words in this chapter are very close in meaning to each other. Pay attention to small details in order to choose the best.
1. As a teenager, Dean did a lot of stupid things that he now feels (humiliation / shame) about.
2. Many foreigners feel that their appearance (stigmatizes / despises) them in this country.
3. I won't cooperate with Walter now because I remember that he was (obnoxious / contemptuous) of me in the days before my company's success.
4. Mark (despises / berates) Henry and refuses to see him at all.
5. Turkey's historic (antipathy / shame) toward Greece may be softening with the new generation.
TOEFL Success Read the passage to review the vocabulary you have learned. Answer the questions that follow.
Some radio talk show hosts are masters of obnoxious insults. Callers to such shows should be prepared for humiliation if they dare to disagree with the host's views. The host controls whether the caller can speak, so he can arrogantly berate the caller without allowing the caller to respond. Some shows, especially on AM radio, have hosts who are contemptuous of nearly everyone. They regularly use vitriolic language to stigmatize whole groups of people, such as foreigners, liberals, gays, or women. Some hosts don't actually despise the groups they insult. They simply use antipathy as a form of entertainment, and they seem to feel no shame about the damage they do.
 
1. Which phrase best describes the author's point of view?
a. The author enjoys listening to radio talk shows.
b. The author believes talk shows can cause damage.
c. The author thinks talk show hosts are disturbing but honest.
d. The author argues that hosts are ordinary people just doing their jobs.
 
2. Which people are often berated on radio talk shows, according to the author?
a. hosts
b. callers
c. listeners
d. advertisers
 
Lesson 35   Negative Emotions
TOEFL Prep I      1. d 2. b 3. e 4. c 5. a
TOEFL Prep II    1. shame 2. stigmatizes 3. contemptuous 4. despises 5. antipathy
TOEFL Success   1. b 2. b







LESSON 36
Parenting
Target Words
1. autonomy
2. cascading
3. cloak
4. demographic
6. dire
6. embrace
7. hover
8. novice
9. overwhelming
10. plummet
Definitions and Samples
 
1. autonomy n.   Freedom to make one's own decisions
Parents have to give their children some degree of autonomy by the time they reach their teens, especially in areas like choosing their own clothes and hairstyles.
Parts of speech   autonomous adj
 
2. cascading adj.   Falling or moving onward through several stages from one point to another, like a series of waterfalls
Power company officials are worried about cascading outages, where the failure of one plant could cause a series of failures down the line.
Usage tips   In its original meaning, a cascade is a waterfall.
Parts of speech   cascade v, cascade n
 
3. cloak v.   To hide; make something difficult to see
The two athletes smile and shake hands when they meet, but these gestures cloak a deep dislike for one another.
Usage tips   A cloak is a large coat.
Parts of speech   cloak n
 
4. demographic adj.   Related to the characteristics of a society or other group of people
One big demographic change is that now more than 30 percent of the population is under the age of 20.
Parts of speech   demographics n, demographer n
 
5. dire adj.   Extremely bad
Because the father lost his job and the mother had serious health problems, the family was in dire economic circumstances.
Usage tips   Common phrases include dire circumstances and dire straits.
 
6. embrace v.   To eagerly take hold of something; to hug
After being chosen class president, Annie embraced the position as an opportunity to make positive changes.
Usage tips   In its original meaning, embrace means to put one's arms around something.
Parts of speech   embrace n
 
7. hover v.   To stay near a person or place, like a bird or a helicopter constantly staying overhead
The teacher hovered near the group of students, trying to hear what they were talking about.
Parts of speech   hover n
 
8. novice n.   Someone without much earlier experience at a task
In the 1970s, George Lucas was a novice and often asked for advice from more experienced filmmakers.
Parts of speech   novitiate n
 
9. overwhelming adj.   So large or intense that someone has difficulty understanding or controlling it.
Suddenly getting hundreds of thousands of visitors, the website found its popularity overwhelming—far more than its server could handle.
Parts of speech   overwhelm v
 
10. plummet v.   To fall a long way in a short time
The price of stocks plummeted yesterday after the government announced some negative data about the economy.
Parts of speech   plummet n
TOEFL Prep I Choose the word from the list that is closest to the underlined part of each sentence. Write it in the blank.

TOEFL Prep II Circle the word that best completes each sentence.
1. I believe that wealth gently (cascades / plummets) from the richest classes of society down to the poorest.
2. After he got a terrible disease while traveling through the jungle, Barton's health was in (demographic / dire) condition.
3. After learning the new technique, I (cloaked / embraced) it as a great way to keep children interested in class.
4. People in their early 20s still seek occasional help from their parents, but they need a high degree of (novice / autonomy) in order to develop normal adult skills.
5. Donald was big, loud, and outspoken in his criticism of his coworkers. However, this behavior (cloaked / hovered) a deep lack of confidence in his own abilities.
TOEFL Success Read the passage to review the vocabulary you have learned. Answer the questions that follow.
The popularity of books and TV series about proper parenting cloaks an ugly reality: The quality of parenting in American households is falling. Given the overwhelming importance of parenting—not just to the family but to society as a whole—Americans are underprepared for it. Demographic changes have had a cascading effect, so that parenting competence is much harder for Americans to develop. For example, as the number of children per American household has plummeted, fewer Americans have grown up witnessing their own siblings being cared for at home. This creates an experience gap early in life that is hard to overcome later, especially since fewer and fewer parental novices live near Grandma and Grandpa, who might otherwise offer on-the-spot advice. Experts disagree about the overall social effects of our lack of parenting skill. Families still carry on, so how dire can things be? Most researchers see not collapse but a change in quality, with underskilled parents producing a generation poorly prepared to embrace their own adulthood in their early 20s. It doesn't help that modern parents tend to hover over their 20-something children, taking care of most of their needs long after the point when those young adults should have achieved autonomy. These are the famous "helicopter parents"—always there, always watchful, and always interfering.
 
1. Which sentence best expresses the essential information of this passage?
a. Americans are having fewer children than ever before.
b. Parents in the United States don't have enough training to do the job.
c. Too many Americans move away from their parents before having their own children.
d. You can't be a bad parent if you hover over your kids.
 
2. The author of this passage thinks it's a good idea to _________.
a. not have children unless you go to parenting classes
b. let children be raised by their grandparents
c. observe how your parents raise your brothers or sisters
d. take jobs that provide free child care for employees
 
Lesson 36   Parenting
TOEFL Prep I      1. autonomy 2. novices 3. demographic 4. hover 5. overwhelming
TOEFL Prep II    1. cascades 2. dire 3. embraced 4. autonomy 5. cloaked
TOEFL Success   1. b 2. c







Culture








LESSON 37
Social Rebels
Target Words
1. adolescent
2. cause
3. conflict
4. delinquency
5. fringe
6. hedonistic
7. hypocritically
8. manipulation
9. rebel
10. status quo
Definitions and Samples
 
1. adolescent adj.   Characteristic of a teenager; not fully grown up
In policy meetings, George refuses to reason with anyone and just scowls in an adolescent way.
Parts of speech   adolescent n, adolescence n
 
2. cause n.   A political or social goal that one believes is right and works to achieve
Our river cleanup effort would be more effective if someone famous spoke out for the cause.
 
3. conflict v.   To fit so poorly together that the differences cause a problem
A teenager's need for security can conflict with his desire for independence from his family.
Parts of speech   conflict n
 
4. delinquency n.   Serious misbehavior; not doing what one should do
Because of his laziness and delinquency, Lefty was an unreliable friend.
Usage tips   A common combination is juvenile delinquency, meaning "criminal behavior by a teenager."
Parts of speech   delinquent n, delinquent adj
 
5. fringe n.   Edge; in social contexts, parts of society that look or act very different from most people
Punk music got its start at the fringe of London's rock music culture.
Usage tips   Fringe implies an edge that is uneven and not very solid.
Parts of speech   fringy adj
 
6. hedonistic adj.   Excessively interested in seeking pleasure
Suddenly wealthy, Allen fell into a hedonistic life of parties, expensive dinners, and heavy drinking.
Usage tips   Hedonistic usually implies that the pleasures are wrong.
Parts of speech   hedonist n, hedonism n, hedonistically adv
 
7. hypocritically adv.   In a way that accuses other people of weaknesses that the speaker also possesses
Henry spent $2,500 on a new suit and then hypocritically accused me of spending too much on clothes.
Parts of speech   hypocrite n, hypocrisy n, hypocritical adj
 
8. manipulation n.   Quietly moving or influencing people or things in order to get what you want
Bob's manipulation of the boss's feelings led to his promotion.
Parts of speech   manipulate v, manipulator n, manipulative adj
 
9. rebel v.   To go against an established system or authority
The people of Ghurdia rebelled against the dictator and set up a new government.
Usage tips   Rebel works well in political contexts and in contexts of personal relationships.
Parts of speech   rebel n, rebellion n
 
10. status quo n.   The systems and conditions that exist now
Let's just maintain the status quo until we can think of a better way.
TOEFL Prep I Find the word or phrase that is closest in meaning to each word in the left-hand column. Write the letter in the blank.

TOEFL Prep II Complete each sentence by filling in the blank with the best word from the list. Change the form of the word if necessary. Use each word only once.
cause   hedonistic   hypocritically   manipulation   rebel
1. Senator Bond, who often lied to Congress, _________ called the president a liar.
2. Some monks criticized the well-fed, art-loving people of fifteenth-century Florence for being _________.
3. During the 1970s, college students fought for one _________ after another, from saving the whales to changing the government.
4. Even though it's illegal, _________of lawmakers by rich companies is common.
5. It's natural for young people to _________ against society, but not with violence.
TOEFL Success Read the passage to review the vocabulary you have learned. Answer the questions that follow.
Many adolescents and young adults go through a period when they rebel against what they perceive as an insincere world. Teens may take up causes such as radical environmentalism, protesting against the status quo. They may choose clothes that annoy their parents and associate with people from the fringes of society. This is a delicate period in a person's life, full of chances to make bad decisions that could lead to juvenile delinquency and even jail. Conversely, it can be a time of personal discovery that strengthens teens in a moral rejection of hedonistic lifestyles. At this age they may fearlessly speak up against hypocritically self-righteous authorities and against manipulation by the news media. These adolescent protests can lead to conflicts within families and communities, but stirring things up can also lead to serious reflection and positive change.

Bonus Structure—Conversely means "on the other hand."

 
1. Which sentence best expresses the essential information of this passage?
a. Teens are hedonistic and self-serving.
b. Many teenagers are radical environmentalists.
c. Adolescents often create conflicts in their communities.
d. Teenage rebellion can cause problems, but it can be positive too.
 
2. According to the reading, what is one possible positive effect of teen rebellion?
a. Adults might try to make positive changes.
b. Teens may get in trouble with the police.
c. Teens may become responsible adults later in life.
d. Adults might imitate teens and also rebel.
 
Lesson 37   Social Rebels
TOEFL Prep I      1. d 2. b 3. a 4. c 5. e
TOEFL Prep II    1. hypocritically 2. hedonistic 3. cause 4. manipulation 5. rebel
TOEFL Success   1. d 2. a







LESSON 38
Painting and Sculpture
Target Words
1. abstract
2. context
3. depict
4. dimension
5. esthetically
6. intrinsic
7. perspective
8. portrayal
9. realism
10. spectrum
Definitions and Samples
 
1. abstract adj.   Not concrete and realistic; not obviously related to everyday experience
Abstract painting became popular partly because early photography was very realistic.
Parts of speech   abstraction n
 
2. context n.   A larger environment that something fits into
In the context of Soviet Russia, public art had to be about the triumph of communism and its leaders.
Usage tips   The preposition in often comes before context, and an of phrase often comes after it.
Parts of speech   contextualize v, contextual adj
 
3. depict v.   To show in pictures
Michelangelo's painting on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel depicts nine scenes from the Bible.
Parts of speech   depiction n
 
4. dimension n.   A direction or surface along which something can be measured; an aspect
The three dimensions of physical objects are length, width, and depth.
One dimension of the bad relationship between the two countries is their long history of economic competition.
Parts of speech   dimensional adj
 
5. esthetically adv.   In a way that relates to beauty or appearance
The outside of the office building is esthetically pleasing, but the inside is dark and unpleasant.
Usage tips   Esthetically is often spelled with an "a" at the beginning: aesthetically.
Parts of speech   esthetic n, esthete n, esthetic adj
 
6. intrinsic adj.   Being part of the basic nature of something
Frequent elections are intrinsic to a democratic system.
Parts of speech   intrinsically adv
 
7. perspective n.   A way of seeing from a particular location; a way of thinking about something
From my perspective, the entire town can be seen through a set of large windows.
They held different perspectives on how to care for their aging parents.
 
8. portrayal n.   A description or drawing that reflects a certain point of view
Most portrayals of Abraham Lincoln emphasize his sense of humor and his honesty.
Usage tips   Portrayal is often followed by an of phrase to indicate what is being described.
Parts of speech   portray v, portrait n
 
9. realism n.   A technique that tries to picture something as it really looks
Realism was popular among seventeenth-century Flemish painters like Rembrandt van Rijn.
Parts of speech   realist n, realistic adj, realistically adj
 
10. spectrum n.   A range of different things, usually colors
Bart's colorful designs include every color of the spectrum, from deep blue to vibrant red.
Usage tips   The phrase the spectrum frequently means "the colors that the human eye can see."
TOEFL Prep I Find the word or phrase that is closest in meaning to each word in the left-hand column. Write the letter in the blank.

TOEFL Prep II Circle the word that best completes each sentence.
1. The materials that go into a work of art usually have little (abstract / intrinsic) value.
2. In the 1970s, artists known as "the Boston School" revived (realism / context) by rejecting abstract techniques and trying to capture the actual appearance of their subjects.
3. The colors of light that we can see are known as the visible (spectrum / perspective).
4. Medieval artists did not try to use (context / perspective) to give a sense of depth to their paintings.
5. The small, separate strokes of impressionist paintings give the works a dreamlike (portrayal / dimension).
TOEFL Success Read the passage to review the vocabulary you have learned. Answer the questions that follow.
Whether something is "art" is largely a matter of opinion. Art that most people consider to have no intrinsic value can contain a great treasure of ideas and invention to someone who sees something special in it. Styles in all the arts range over a wide spectrum. Some good art is esthetically unchallenging and easy to understand. Other works are strange forms, totally out of context to everyone but the artist. One artist's portrayal of an everyday object, such as a bouquet of flowers, may be grounded in realism and easily recognizable. Another painter's depiction of the same bouquet may be very abstract, resembling flowers only in the artist's mind. Regardless of the artist's approach, the best art reveals new dimensions of experience and looks at the world from a fresh perspective.

Bonus Structure—Totally means "completely" or "in every way."

 
1. Which sentence best expresses the essential information of this passage?
a. Styles of art have changed throughout history.
b. Realistic art has more meaning than abstract art.
c. Esthetically pleasing art is too simple to contain much meaning.
d. Works of art can mean different things, depending on one's perspective.
 
2. According to this reading, what is one big difference between abstract art and realistic art?
a. Abstract art is harder to sell.
b. Abstract art is harder to understand.
c. Abstract art is harder to produce.
d. Abstract art is harder to look at. 
 
Lesson 38   Painting and Sculpture
TOEFL Prep I      1. c 2. a 3. d 4. e 5. b
TOEFL Prep II    1. intrinsic 2. realism 3. spectrum 4. perspective 5. dimension
TOEFL Success   1. d 2. b







LESSON 39
The Written Word
Target Words
1. advent
2. ambiguous
3. connotation
4. decipher
5. denote
6. illiterate
7. ingenious
8. inscription
9. phonetic
10. symbolic
Definitions and Samples
 
1. advent n.   Coming; arrival
The advent of the automobile greatly increased the demand for petroleum.
Usage tips   Advent is usually followed by an of phrase.
 
2. ambiguous adj.   Having more than one possible meaning
The sentence It's hard to say is ambiguous, with different meanings in different contexts.
Parts of speech   ambiguity n, ambiguously adv
 
3. connotation n.   A meaning implied, not stated directly
When my boss says, "Thank you," the connotation is that she's done talking and I should leave.
Parts of speech   connote v
 
4. decipher v.   To figure out the meaning, even though it is written in a code or an unknown language
The Rosetta Stone helped archaeologists decipher ancient Egyptian writing.
Usage tips   A cipher is a code or puzzle; decipher means "solve a puzzle written in code."
 
5. denote v.   To mean something clearly and directly
An "X" next to a name on this list denotes a person who has been chosen for the soccer team.
Parts of speech   denotation n
 
6. illiterate adj.   Unable to read
In many villages nearly everyone was illiterate and unschooled, and the few who could read held great power.
Parts of speech   illiterate n, illiteracy n
 
7. ingenious adj.   Very clever and imaginative
Ann thought up an ingenious way to keep other people from accidentally taking her pens.
Parts of speech   ingenuity n, ingeniously adv
 
8. inscription n.   Something written into a piece of rock or metal
The inscription on my ring says "August 1," because that was the day of our wedding.
Parts of speech   inscribe v
 
9. phonetic adj.   Related to the sounds in a language
Children learning to write often make up phonetic spellings, based on the way a word sounds.
Parts of speech   phonetics n, phonetically adv
 
10. symbolic adj.   Acting as a sign for some other thing or idea
Since the 1970s, yellow ribbons have been symbolic of hope that someone will return from a dangerous situation.
Usage tips   Symbolic is often followed by an of phrase indicating the meaning of a symbol.
Parts of speech   symbolize v, symbol n, symbolically adv
TOEFL Prep I Find the word or phrase that is closest in meaning to each word in the left-hand column. Write the letter in the blank.

TOEFL Prep II Complete each sentence by filling in the blank with the best word from the list. Change the form of the word if necessary. Use each word only once.
ambiguous   connotation   denote   illiterate   symbolic
1. If my father told me to be quiet, the _________ was "I have a headache."
2. The president's response, "Wait and see," was _________, meaning that perhaps he would take action, perhaps not.
3. In English writing, a mark called an apostrophe usually _________ a missing letter, as in isn't for is not.
4. A circle with a plus attached (  ) is _________ of "woman" and of the planet Venus.
5. Farley was a poor, _________ boy from a remote area who later taught himself to read and write.
TOEFL Success Read the passage to review the vocabulary you have learned. Answer the questions that follow.
Johannes Gutenberg's ingenious use of movable type in his printing press had a wide range of effects on European societies. Most obviously, readers no longer had to decipher odd handwriting, with ambiguous lettering, in order to read a written work. Gutenberg gave each letter standard forms, a move that had connotations far beyond the printing business. The inscriptions on tombstones and roadside mileposts, for example, could now be standardized. The cost of books decreased. Even illiterate people benefited indirectly from the advent of this invention, as the general level of information in society increased. However, Gutenberg's press was of limited use for languages that used picture-like symbols for writing instead of a phonetic system. Systems of symbolic pictographs, each of which denotes a word, require many thousands of characters to be cast into lead type by the printer. Phonetic systems, like the Latin alphabet, use the same few characters, recombined in thousands of ways to make different words.

Bonus Structure—Most obviously introduces an easy-to-see effect and implies that less-clear effects will come later.

 
1. According to this reading, how did the invention of the printing press benefit illiterate people?
a. It helped them learn to read.
b. It raised the level of information in a society.
c. It lowered the cost of books.
d. It saved them from having to read ambiguous handwriting.
 
2. Why was Gutenberg's press not very practical for languages that use picture-like symbols?
a. because character-based languages are made of pictographs
b. because phonetic alphabets are clearer
c. because there are too many characters to make movable type for each one
d. because Gutenberg was European, so he didn't know any character- based languages 
 
Lesson 39   The Written Word
TOEFL Prep I      1. a 2. c 3. b 4. e 5. d
TOEFL Prep II    1. connotation 2. ambiguous 3. denotes 4. symbolic 5. illiterate
TOEFL Success   1. b 2. c







LESSON 40
Entertainment
Target Words
1. amateurish
2. cast
3. charismatic
4. gala
5. hilarious
6. improvisation
7. incompetent
8. medium
9. skit
10. zeal
Definitions and Samples
 
1. amateurish adj.   Not good enough to be the work of professionals
Whoever painted this room did an amateurish job, with all sorts of uneven edges.
Parts of speech   amateur n, amateurishly adv
 
2. cast n.   The group of actors in a play, movie, television show, etc.
Some viewers mistakenly start thinking that a TV show's cast members are really the characters they play.
Usage tips   In U.S. English, cast is singular. In some other varieties of English it is plural.
Parts of speech   cast v
 
3. charismatic adj.   Extremely attractive and charming
Because of the sparkle in his eye and his confident style, John F. Kennedy was a charismatic leader.
Parts of speech   charisma n, charismatically adv
 
4. gala adj.   Expensive, elaborately arranged, and full of celebration
A college graduation party should be a gala affair, not a backyard barbecue.
Usage tips   Gala is somewhat old-fashioned, far more common in print than in speech.
Parts of speech   gala n
 
5. hilarious adj.   Very funny
In my opinion, the most hilarious character on television was Basil Fawlty.
Parts of speech   hilarity n
 
6. improvisation n.   Inventing a solution to an unexpected problem
Boy Scouts take pride in their improvisation when faced with trouble during a camping trip.
Parts of speech   improvise v, improvisational adj
 
7. incompetent adj.   Unskilled; lacking the ability to perform a task
Because we hired an incompetent builder to replace our roof, we now have leaks everywhere.
Usage tips   Usually, incompetent implies that someone tries to do something but fails.
Parts of speech   incompetence n, incompetently adv
 
8. medium n.   A channel or way for a meaning to be expressed
Watercolor art is often considered childish, but some artists have achieved great things working in that medium.
Usage tips   The plural of medium is media.
 
9. skit n.   A short, informal play
Marnie and Chris spent a long time practicing their skit for the school show.
 
10. zeal n.   Enthusiasm; a deep determination to do well
Unfortunately, Tom's zeal to become a rock star distracted him from his studies.
Usage tips   Zeal is often followed by to plus a verb or by a for phrase.
Parts of speech   zealot n, zealous adj
TOEFL Prep I Find the word or phrase that is closest in meaning to each word in the left-hand column. Write the letter in the blank.

TOEFL Prep II Complete each sentence by filling in the blank with the best word from the list. Change the form of the word if necessary. Use each word only once.
charismatic   gala   improvisation   medium   skit
1. The sixth-grade class put on a little _________ about Thanksgiving Day.
2. The year ended with a _________ celebration featuring a professional orchestra.
3. Gena's skills at _________ saved the play when she forgot her real lines.
4. Television is a passive _________ because it demands no input from the viewer.
5. Movie stars that are especially _________ often take advantage of their charm to go into politics.
TOEFL Success Read the passage to review the vocabulary you have learned. Answer the questions that follow.
When the artistic medium of theater falls into the hands of college students, the results can be unpredictable. At one college, we saw Shakespeare's Hamlet done as musical theater. The idea was bad to start out with, and the actual play was amateurish, bordering on incompetent. The cast did not understand the tragic power of the play. Their improvisation when they forgot their lines was silly and inappropriate. The costumes and set design looked homemade, like something from an elementary school skit. Three months later, however, this same group of students did a great job with the comedy A Midsummer Night's Dream. Surprisingly enough, the actors were charismatic, played their parts with zeal, and achieved a hilarious result. It was no gala event, but we still felt that it was one of the best performances we had seen.

Bonus Structure—However indicates a change in focus.

 
1. What word best describes the author's opinion of the student performance of Hamlet?
a. incompetent
b. charismatic
c. hilarious
d. full of zeal
 
2. What is the author's opinion of student performances in general?
a. Students should not perform Shakespeare's plays.
b. Sometimes student productions are good, and other times they are not.
c. All student shows are amateurish.
d. Student performances should be gala events.
 
Lesson 40   Entertainment
TOEFL Prep I      1. e 2. a 3. b 4. c 5. d
TOEFL Prep II    1. skit 2. gala 3. improvisation 4. medium 5. charismatic
TOEFL Success   1. a 2. b







LESSON 41
Risky Fashions
Target Words
1. bulk
2. capricious
3. cumbersome
4. exotic
5. inhibit
6. minimum
7. striking
8. trend
9. vanity
10. vulnerable
Definitions and Samples
 
1. bulk n.   Largeness and a heavy appearance
The bulk of Kevin's athletic body was too great for one small chair, so he sat on a bench.
Parts of speech   bulky adj
 
2. capricious adj.   Moving unpredictably from one thing to another
Your college studies will go on too long if you make capricious jumps from one major to another.
Usage tips   Capricious comes from a Latin word meaning "goat" and implies a motion like the jumping of a goat.
Parts of speech   capriciousness n, capriciously adv
 
3. cumbersome adj.   Difficult to wear or carry because of weight or shape
To make it to the top of the mountain before dark, the hikers dumped their cumbersome tent.
 
4. exotic adj.   Interesting or unusual because of coming from a faraway place
I walked into the restaurant and smelled the exotic aromas of Malaysian spices.
Parts of speech   exoticism n, exotically adv
 
5. inhibit v.   To discourage or to slow down
This lotion will inhibit the itching caused by mosquito bites.
Parts of speech   inhibition n
 
6. minimum n.   The smallest possible amount or level
The minimum for being accepted to Cavill University is a score of 60 on the test.
Parts of speech   minimize v, minimum adj, minimal adj, minimally adv
 
7. striking adj.   Very noticeable; easily attracting attention
Gordon had a striking new attitude after he learned self-discipline at the army academy.
Usage tips   Striking comes from a verb that means "to hit."
Parts of speech   strike v, strikingly adv
 
8. trend n.   A movement in one direction or a widespread change in fashion
The trend among some young men is to wear their caps with the bill off to one side.
Parts of speech   trend v, trendy adj
 
9. vanity n.   An excessive concern for one's appearance
Mark's vanity led him to spend far too much money on haircuts and new clothes.
Parts of speech   vain adj
 
10. vulnerable adj.   Exposed to possible harm
Babies and very old people are especially vulnerable to the new disease.
Usage tips   Vulnerable is often followed by a to phrase.
Parts of speech   vulnerability n, vulnerably adv
TOEFL Prep I Find the word or phrase that is closest in meaning to the opposite of each word in the left-hand column. Write the letter in the blank.

TOEFL Prep II Circle the word that best completes the sentence.
1. The (trend / bulk) of his sweater made him look fatter than he really was.
2. Some analysts see a relationship between fashion (trends / vanity) and the ups and down of the economy.
3. The outfits worn by firefighters are (vulnerable / cumbersome) and heavy.
4. Her necklace was especially (cumbersome / striking) because of the diamonds it contained.
5. (Vanity / Bulk) led my grandfather to dye his hair and to dress like someone 40 years younger.
TOEFL Success Read the passage to review the vocabulary you have learned. Answer the questions that follow.
The fashion industry encourages people to spend far too much time and money on clothes. It's natural for humans to use clothing as a mark of belonging to a group and to try to keep up with style trends. The fashion industry exploits this natural desire and turns it into a capricious, impractical, and expensive rush from one style to another. For example, in one recent year, fashion did an abrupt about-face. Early in the year, fashionable outfits showed a minimum amount of fabric and a maximum amount of skin. By late summer, famous fashion designers were drowning people in bulky, cumbersome outfits that looked five sizes too big. Vanity inhibits people from looking realistically at exotic clothing fads. A striking new style catches their eye, they look at the clothes they're wearing, and they are suddenly vulnerable to the manipulation of the fashion industry.

Bonus Structure—It's natural for introduces an aspect of fashion that's not bad, but it implies that an "unnatural" aspect will come next.

 
1. Which word best describes the fashion industry, according to the author?
a. striking
b. minimum
c. capricious
d. vulnerable
 
2. What is one reason people buy the latest fashions, according to the author?
a. Because they want to feel like they are part of the group.
b. Because they enjoy spending money.
c. Because the fashion world is bizarre.
d. Because their clothes from last year don't fit.
 
Lesson 41   Risky Fashions
TOEFL Prep I      1. d 2. c 3. a 4. b 5. e
TOEFL Prep II    1. bulk 2. trends 3. cumbersome 4. striking 5. Vanity
TOEFL Success   1. c 2. a







400 Must-Have Words for the TOEFL® Test*
 
abandon
abduction
abstract
accumulate
accuracy
accuse
acquire
acquisition
adapt
addictive
adjacent
adjust
adolescent
advent
adversely
advocate
affection
affluence
aggravate
aggregate
agnostic
allegedly
allegiance
allocate
amateurish
ambiguous
amend
analyze
ancestral
anesthesia
animism
annex
anomaly
anticipate
antipathy
apex
apprehend
arbitrary
arrogantly
artillery
ascertain
assail
assess
asset
assimilate
associate
astrological
atheist
augment
authority
autonomy
 
battle
be inclined to
berate
biased
bitterly
bond
bribery
bulk
burden
bureaucratic
 
candidate
capricious
cartel
cascading
cast
catastrophic
cause
cease
certifiably
charismatic
chronologically
circulate
civil
clique
cloak
coalition
coerce
cohesion
coincide
collapse
collide
combustion
commodity
compensate
complex
complication
component
compress
concentrated
condemn
confide
conflict
connotation
conquest
consciously
consequence
constraint
contamination
contemplate
contemptuous
contest
context
contrary
convey
convict
core
corrode
counter
cremation
cultivation
cumbersome
cure
curriculum
cynically
 
de facto
decipher
decline
decrepit
degrade
deify
delinquency
demographic
denominator
denote
deny
depict
deplete
derive
descendant
despise
despondent
detain
detection
deviant
devise
devotion
dilemma
dimension
diminish
dire
discretely
discriminate
disease
dispose of
distill
distinctly
distort
diverse
divination
domesticate
dynamic
ecclesiastical
election
elementally
elite
embrace
emission
engender
enterprising
entrepreneurial
equity
erode
erudite
eruption
esthetically
evade
evidence
evolve
exalt
exclusive
exotic
expeditiously
exploit
exponentially
extinction
extract
 
famine
fatally
feasibly
feature
fertilize
flood
fluctuate
folklore
forensics
fortify
fossilize
fringe
 
gala
gap
generation
grotesque
guilty
gut
 
haggle
haunt
hazardous
hedonistic
hierarchy
hilarious
horror
hover
humiliation
hypocritically
hypothesize
 
illiterate
impact
impair
implant
implement
implicate
implicitly
impoverish
improvisation
in common
in the trenches
inaugurate
incentive
incompetent
indisputable
industrious
inference
infinitesimal
inflation
ingenious
inherent
inheritance
inhibit
inject
innovative
inquiry
inscription
installation
integrally
integrity
intensify
intentionally
interdict
intermediary
intervene
intrepid
intrinsic
intrusively
intuitively
invasive
invoke
irrigation
 
jointly
juxtapose
 
kin
 
lease
legitimate
liability
longitude
loyal
luxury
 
maintenance
manipulation
marginal
maximize
meditate
medium
merchant
merit
migration
milieu
minimum
misconception
mobilize
modify
 
net
nobility
notion
novice
nucleus
 
obese
objectively
obnoxious
obtain
offense
oppress
Orwellian
overlap
overwhelming
 
paradigm
parallel
parochial
passion
paternal
peer
per capita
permeate
persevere
persist
perspective
phantom
phonetic
photosynthesis
physical
pious
piracy
plummet
plunge
policy
poll
portrayal
potent
precipitation
predicament
prejudiced
prestige
prevailing
prevalent
privileged
procedure
process
prognosis
proliferation
promote
proportion
proportionately
proprietor
prosper
prototype
proximity
psychic
 
rank
rate
ratio
realism
rebel
recede
reciprocity
reconciliation
reform
regulate
relic
reservoir
residual
resign
resist
retain
retrieve
reward
rigor
rite
ritually
roster
rotate
 
sacrifice
safeguard
saga
scandal
scar
secular
seep
seize
self-perpetuating
sentiment
sequence
severely
shame
shrink
shuttle
sibling
simulation
skit
smuggle
solar
sole
solidarity
source
spectrum
stable
status quo
stigmatize
strategic
striking
structure
subsidy
subtly
surveillance
survive
suspect
suspend
suspicious
symbolic
 
tangible
terminal
tolerate
trend
trigger
 
unleash
unmask
 
vanish
vanity
vein
verdict
versus
vestige
villainy
violation
vitriolic
vulnerable
 
willing
witness
working class
wound
 
zeal
 
* Specifically, 410 words







About the Authors
LAWRENCE J. ZWIER is associate director of the English Language Center at Michigan State University at East Lansing, Michigan. He has written many general-interest books as well as ESL textbooks for reading, vocabulary development, and test preparation.
LYNN STAFFORD-YILMAZ taught ESL for more than 15 years at Bellevue Community College in Washington and other institutions. She was an accomplished author of numerous ESL textbooks and test-preparation materials.




