




A
Comprehensive Guide in Quitting Drinking: Stop Drinking and Back to Sober Life
 
Richard
Foreman 
 
 
PUBLISHED
BY:
Richard
Foreman 
Copyright
© 2015
 
 Visit
our website to get more books information: justhappyforever.com
 
All rights reserved.
No part of this publication may be
copied, reproduced in any format, by any means, electronic or otherwise,
without prior consent from the copyright owner and publisher of this book.
 
Disclaimer
The information contained in this
ebook is for general information purposes only. The information is provided by
the authors and while we endeavor to keep the information up to date and
correct, we make no representations or warranties of any kind, express or
implied, about the completeness, accuracy, reliability, suitability or
availability with respect to the ebook or the information, products, services,
or related graphics contained in the ebook for any purpose. Any reliance you
place on such information is therefore strictly at your own risk.
 
WAIT! Before you
continue...
Just
to say thank you for purchasing this book, I want to give you a 100% FREE GIFT (valued at
$5.99): 10
Hot Tips for Eating Right & Losing Weight Fast.
 
You
will get the tips for eating right and losing weight fast to make you health.
 
Click here to access your Free
gift
 
 
Table of Contents
Chapter 1:
Introduction
Chapter 2: Alcohol Abuse
Chapter 3: Information about Alcohol Abuse
Chapter 4: Facts about Alcohol
Chapter 5: Overview of the Warning Signs of Alcohol
Addiction
Chapter 6: Symptoms of Alcoholism
Chapter 7: The Alcohol Addiction Cure
Chapter 8: Alcohol Addiction Recovery
Chapter 9: Starting the Sober Journey Safely
Chapter 10: Concrete Measures to End Alcoholism
Chapter 11: Setting Goals and Preparing or Change
Chapter 12: Stop Drinking: Fully or Gradually?
Chapter 13: Handling Cravings and Triggers
Chapter 14: Getting Help and Support
Chapter 15: Getting on Track on a Treatment Program
Chapter 16: Why You Need to Stop Excessive Alcohol
Drinking (Alcohol-Related Diseases)
Chapter 17: Dealing with the Effects of Withdrawal
Syndrome
Chapter 18: Don't Forget to Heal your Liver
Chapter 19: The Liver Cleanse: The Remedy in Healing your
Liver against Alcoholism
Chapter 20: The Effects of Liver Cleanse
Chapter 21: The Overall Health Effects of Liver Cleanse
Chapter 22: Alcohol Awareness
Chapter 23: Starting a New Lifestyle
Chapter 24: Conclusion
 
 










Chapter 1: Introduction
Alcoholism
is one of the world's oldest forms of substance abuse, and unfortunately, it is
every bit as common today as it has always been. Current statistics show that
some 30 percent of Americans have had a drinking problem in their past, while a
further 15 percent are active alcoholics. However, some schools of thought
believe that these estimates are too modest. Some people can successfully hide
their habit for many years before family or friends find out. Some may even
fail to recognize this problem in themselves.
Alcoholism
is defined as an addiction to alcohol that causes the drinker to feel like they
have no control over the amount they consume. They may spend vast amounts of
time either drinking or thinking about drinking. You will learn how you can
identify and help someone with and alcohol problem. You will also find
information on facts about alcoholism or alcohol addiction, symptoms and
effects of alcohol, treatment for alcoholism, alcohol related diseases and much
more.
When
you speak of good times, alcohol is almost always a part of it. In fact,
memorable life occasions are normally celebrated with good cheers and laughter,
preferably over swigs of alcohol. There are few people who don't love a good
drink.
Across
the globe, different cultures have their own favorite alcoholic beverage. In
popular culture, alcohol always figures prominently, consumed and abused by the
rich and famous. To the ordinary folk, consuming alcohol is a great way to let
loose a little and indulge in a bit of fun.
An
occasional drink is no problem, but some people need more than that. For them,
a steady intake of alcohol is necessary to satiate their cravings. In more ways
than one, alcohol becomes their refuge, their quick and convenient escape from
all their troubles and worries.
Should
this be the case for you, the ultimate solution is to switch to a different and
less harmful means of escape, not to try and end escapism itself. Everybody
needs to escape from time to time, even people without worries.
If
I need to escape, I simply go to the forest or a botanical garden. I know from
neuroscience that our brains react positively to being in nature. We feel it as
relaxation, and our thoughts suddenly become clear, but behind the scenes of
our brains, there is more happening that we are not aware of. My first advice
to you is therefore to go out into nature and take a walk. It does more for you
than you notice. The more ways of peaceful escape you discover for yourself,
the less you need that other one: alcohol.
The
choice to turn to alcohol as a response to the circumstances in your life is a
product of your own will. However, there are a handful of risk factors that
increase someone's tendency to become alcoholic. One of these factors is
genetics.
 
Scientists
believe that a person whose parents had their own issues with alcoholism is
more likely to become susceptible to alcohol than those who didn't have
alcoholic parents. People who had or are currently suffering from psychological
issues such as depression and anxiety attacks are also at a greater risk of
becoming alcoholics. Lastly, individuals who live in an environment where
drinking is the norm and who are constantly subjected to pressure from their
peers to pick up the bottle are also at risk of developing alcoholism.
The
second one of these points, depression, is easy cured — even if it is chronic.
My advice of going out into nature applies here as well, because it has an
anti-depressant effect in your brain. You also need to engage in brisk walking
for 30 minutes, 3 times a week. As simple as this exercise may sound, we know
today that it has the same anti-depressant effects as drugs. In fact, people
who rely on anti-depressant drugs are much more likely to return to a
depressive state than people that do the brisk walking exercise.
You
also need sunlight more than you realize. If there is no sunlight, like in
winter, your body clock drifts by 1 hour a day and messes up your sleep. Your
eyes have special light detectors for outside brightness that no indoor
lighting can activate. These receptors are, simply put, connected to your body
clock and the pleasure center of your brain. If it has been gloomy all day and
the sun comes out even for a moment, you know your mood is immediately
uplifted. Lack of sunlight causes winter depression and insomnia, because your
body clock is inaccurate and drifts by about an hour each day. You brain uses
sunlight to know how to correct your body clock each day. So without at least a
partially sunny day, your brain doesn't correct your body clock.
The
way to deal with this is to find a different source of bright light. Since
normal indoor light is actually 100 to 1000 times dimmer than it is outside on
a sunny day, you need to go for a special product. Search for "10000 lux light
box" on Amazon and get one. I believe a light box to be as essential in a
household as a washing machine. All you need to do is look at the light box
every morning within 1 hour of waking up. This will reset your body clock and
cause anti-depressant effects in your brain.
If
this is the first time you hear of light boxes and the effects of sunlight,
then trust me, you cannot yet realize how powerful and important this is to
your wellbeing. After just one week, insomnia and depression are gone. My
mother used to wake up every two hours at night for years. After I gave her a
light box and told her how to use it, her life changed. She was able to sleep
until morning after using the light box for 6 days.
Making
sure that your body clock is always on track, that you get the best possible
sleep and do not have depression goes a long way of solving your drinking
problems.
Note:
Staying up all night is the worst thing you can do to yourself in terms of
depression. It messes up your brain more than you are aware of. So don't do it.
A healthy person teams up with their body. This is what you need to do.
 
 
 










Chapter 2: Alcohol Abuse
Many
people are mistaken about the fact that alcoholism and alcohol abuse are the
same thing. In fact, the two are very different. Alcoholism is different than
alcohol abuse because it means that the person with a drinking problem has
physical signs of dependency and they continue to drink. This could be health
problems related to alcoholism or social problems. Alcohol abuse differs from
alcoholism because it is when drinking leads to problems, but that it does not
lead to addiction. Many people suffer from alcohol addiction without even
realizing that they have a problem.
Those
who suffer from alcohol abuse suffer for a variety of reasons. Those who have a
parent who suffers from alcohol abuse are much more likely to develop the same
problem, or even a problem with alcoholism. Those who suffer from depression
and other mental or emotional health disorders, teens being peer pressured,
those who have a very stressful life, those who suffer from a lack of
self-esteem, and those who are in bad relationships are also more likely to
suffer from alcohol abuse.
Alcoholism
as a mental illness
According
to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-III), the
world's leading reference material for all known forms of mental disorders,
alcoholism is considered a mental illness. Those who suffer from it often have
only partial control of their rationality, particularly when it comes to
alcohol intake. In fact, they are consumed by their intense desire to drink
alcohol no matter what, to the point that fulfilling such a desire becomes a
debilitating exercise that poses a host of negative consequences to their
overall well-being and their relationships with other people. Although largely
a product of personal issues, alcoholism is hardly a personal problem, in the
sense that it also inevitably becomes the problem of the sufferer's family,
loved ones, friends, co-workers, and everybody else he or she encounters.
However,
a few misconceptions and myths about excessive alcohol intake make it difficult
for some people to recognize the gravity of alcoholism as a problem. For
example, some people say that drinking in irregular intervals instead of on a
daily basis does not constitute an alcohol abuse problem. Some even go further
by saying that since they are still able to function normally at work or are
still able to fulfill their obligations at home despite their excessive alcohol
intake, then technically, they should not be considered as alcohol addicts.
Others raise their arms in resignation, saying it's next to impossible, if not
entirely impossible, to change their ways and quit drinking.
The
tendency to deny the existence of a problem is only one of the tell-tale
symptoms of addiction. As it were, alcoholism is not limited to the kind of
alcohol you consume, the frequency by which you drink, or even your demeanor
when you're out drinking. At its most basic, you have an alcohol problem when
your alcohol intake begins to threaten your overall sense of physical and
emotional well-being, your relationship with the people around you, and the
safety and security of others.
Since
you are reading these lines, I assume you have already gone beyond the stage of
making excuses and may also have grasped that it is within your power to change
your habits. Mental illness or not, it can be changed. Realizing your problem
is the opening move. Making sure you are not depressive and sleep deprived is
the second move. Once both are in place, overcoming alcohol addiction is easier
than you might think.

Alcohol
Abuse cause family and social dysfunction image from Flikr by TashaLalyn
 










Chapter 3: Information about
Alcohol Abuse
Those
who abuse alcohol ruin their familial, work, and interpersonal relationships by
drinking. They know that they are harming their relationships and social life,
but they cannot stop drinking to fix them. Many people who suffer from alcohol
abuse are prone to drinking and driving, engaging in risky personal behavior, financial
problems, injury, and even violence. The behavior someone has while abusing
alcohol is not their typical behavior, but their alcohol abuse aggravates it.
Binge
drinking is considered a form of alcohol abuse. The reason it fits into the
alcohol abuse category is because people who binge drink are not considered
alcoholics. The people who binge drink have the ability to go long periods of
time without drinking anything before having a binge. Binge drinking is what it
is called when a person has more than a certain number of drinks in one
sitting. For men, the number is five drinks. For women, the number is four
drinks.
Some
people believe that the way to prevent binge drinking and alcohol abuse is to
raise the legal drinking age from 21. They age they want to raise the drinking
age to is unspecified. It is also believed that binge drinking all weekend and
the stress of going back to work or school on a Monday are considered to be a
leading cause of heart attacks that occur on Mondays.
Alcohol
abuse is thought to be a leading cause of neural defects in people who abuse
alcohol. These defects include memory problems and auditory problems. The
people who abuse alcohol find that after a while they have trouble with these
things more than people who do not abuse alcohol. Most people who suffer from
alcohol abuse are considered to be younger people, though the older generation
is not to be overlooked. Many elderly people do suffer from some form of
alcohol abuse as well.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










Chapter 4: Facts about Alcohol
Alcohol
and health benefits
The
modern press is full of stories about how the occasional beer or glass of wine
is good for us. These stories are often backed up with evidence from clinical
trials.
Nowhere
does it say, however, that the perceived benefits come from alcohol itself.
They are attributed to substances apart from alcohol. Often, these features
contain a disclaimer.
 
Benefits
of drinking;
·        
Helps in problems forgetting- illusion.
·        
It is a way of fun.
·        
It' a means of unwinding and relaxing,
after a day that has been stressful.
 
Benefits
of not drinking;
·        
Helps in the improvement of
relationships, both with friends, workmates as well as family
·        
Gives room for more energy as well as
time for activities and people who one cares about.
 
Costs
of drinking;
·        
It is the root cause of problems in
relationships.
·        
It makes one to feel ashamed, anxious,
and depressed.
·        
Drinking reduces performance in family
responsibilities and job.
 
Costs
of not drinking;
·        
Lose of your drinking buddies.
·        
It makes one to go through struggles to
find new ways of dealing with problems.
·        
It makes one to focus on some of the
responsibilities he/she ignores.
 
The
biochemistry of alcohol toxicity
The
word 'alcohol' is a general term for a class of organic compounds containing
oxygen, carbon and hydrogen. The members of this class have in common an
attached oxygen-hydrogen unit attached to one of the carbon atoms. Only ethanol
is present in alcoholic beverage; other simple alcohols are toxic.
Unlike
food, which is made up of huge, complex molecules that must be digested before
being absorbed, ethanol is a tiny molecule that passes easily into the
bloodstream and to the brain, especially on an empty stomach. Ethanol is toxic.
Too high a dose and one of the body's main defences against poison kicks in,
Vomiting. Consumed over time, however, and in moderate doses, the ethanol is
diluted. This delays the vomiting reflex.
Ethanol
is broken down mainly by enzymes in the liver. Consumed too quickly, the liver
is overwhelmed. The ethanol bypasses the liver and circulates in the blood to
the brain where it exerts its intoxicating effects.
Metabolism,
or the breakdown, of ethanol relies on the presence of molecules in the cell
called NAD, an important player in normal 'housekeeping' reactions in the body.
If large amounts of NAD are diverted to the breakdown of ethanol, there is less
of it to service these routine metabolic pathways. This causes gout.
 
Alcohol
and the brain
Ethanol
exerts its effects by slowing down impulses from inhibitory neurons, allowing
the excitatory brain cells to dominate. This explains why people become more
animated when they drink. Ultimately, however, ethanol acts as an overall
depressant of the central nervous system (CNS) and sedates all of the nerve
cells in the brain.
In
even the most moderate drinkers, ethanol shrinks brain cells. Prolonged
over-consumption can lead to serious and irreversible damage to memory, vision
and the ability to learn.
 
Long
term effects of alcohol
Repeated
over-consumption of ethanol without a sufficient period for the body to recover
eventually takes a toll on the body. Some of the effects of long term overuse
include:
·        
Weakness and deterioration of cardiac
and skeletal muscle
·        
Cancers of the lungs, esophagus, throat
and mouth
·        
Diabetes
·        
Ulcers of the digestive tract
·        
Serious psychological depression
·        
Immune system impairment
·        
Osteoporosis and bone deterioration
 
The
intent here is not to preach or frighten anybody off the occasional celebratory
glass of champagne or a beer after work. The facts are presented so they may
speak for themselves and encourage the reader to make sensible choices.

Enslavement due to
Alcoholism may ruin lives image from Flikr by Imagens Evangelicas
 










Chapter 5: Overview of the Warning
Signs of Alcohol Addiction
Addictions
are not meant to be taken lightly. Anyone can fall into an addiction, but it
takes a lot of hard work and dedication to get out of an addiction. Alcohol is
a substance that some people may not think is very addictive. You can have a
few drinks every now and then and your life won't change. This is true, but for
many people one or two drinks can be a gateway to alcohol addiction.
Alcohol
addiction can ruin lives and relationships in a short amount of time. This can
be made even worse if the addict starts drinking even more out of grief over
losing those relationships and making bad decisions. The web of alcohol
addiction is a very tangled one that only grips tighter as time goes on.
One
of the greatest dangers of alcohol addiction is not knowing when you've been
drinking too much or not realizing when you have a drinking problem. Drinking
is such a common part of our lives that it's easy to downplay how much you've
actually consumed and not see a problem. Even low amounts of alcohol can affect
your body, personality and judgment to a degree, but many drinkers don't want
to make a fuss out of a few drinks.
Many
people have too much pride to admit that they have problems to work through to
begin with. They may try to blame outside sources like a spouse or a job
instead of taking responsibility for themselves and their actions.
If
you suspect you may be living with or know someone with an alcohol addiction,
learn the initial warning signs in order to solidify your suspicions.
Alcohol
addicts aren't just people who drink on a regular basis; they're people with a
physical dependence on alcohol. Alcohol addicts will have regular cravings for
alcoholic beverages and may become irritated if these cravings can't be fed.
Alcohol
addicts also seem to have difficulty learning how to limit what they drink.
Alcohol addicts may have a huge tolerance for alcohol, which can be extremely
dangerous. Alcohol addicts who have a high tolerance for alcohol run a high
risk of drinking more than they can handle. This can lead to severe
intoxication and may even lead to alcohol poisoning, which can be fatal. One
way to spot a gradual descent into alcohol addiction is a need to consume more
alcohol than usual in order to get drunk.
A
sign of severe alcohol addiction is getting symptoms of withdrawal when you go
for an extended period without a drink. Cold sweats, shaking, nausea and more
are all signs of withdrawal and immediate action should be taken for anyone
showing these symptoms.
Alcohol
addiction doesn't have to be a dead end road. Admission is seen by many as the
hardest part of recovery. Once you've admitted that you have an alcohol
addiction, you can get the help you need. There are many rehab centers and
clinics available as well as family and friends to help you through your addiction.
 










Chapter 6: Symptoms of Alcoholism
Before
I continue with solutions to alcoholism, I want to take a step back. After all,
it may be that you are not the one suffering from it, but instead have a friend
or family member in this condition. Perhaps you bought this book to get a
better understanding of it all.
For
this eventuality, I want to talk a bit about how you can tell if someone is
suffering from alcohol addiction. Here are a few common signs.
 
Denial
of the problem
One
of the hallmark symptoms of any form of addiction is the tendency to deny the
existence of a problem. Indeed, addicts tend to underplay the host of negative
effects their addiction has on themselves and the people around them, or else
conveniently pass the blame on others.
This
is most certainly the case for those suffering from alcohol abuse. Despite
consuming more alcohol than they can physically endure, they remain insistent
that they are not drinking too much. When accused that they have an alcohol
problem, they flat out reject such a notion. Instead, they instinctively switch
to defensive mode by claiming that others are merely blowing things out of
proportion. If they do agree to such notion, they do so with the suggestion
that it's something that happened not out of their own free will but because
they were inevitably pushed to turn to alcohol by circumstances and the people
around them.
In
more ways than one, this denial serves as a way for alcoholics to justify or
rationalize their behavior. By choosing to believe that they are not doing
anything wrong or troublesome either to themselves or others, they get the
affirmation that they need to carry on with their behavior without feeling
guilty or being overly conscious. In truth, however, this sense of denial can
only last so long before it eventually gets ripped by the more damaging effects
of alcoholism later on.
 
Spending
too much time drinking
In
general, an addiction is anything taken in excess of what is considered normal
and acceptable, to the point that it becomes detrimental to one's overall sense
of well-being. For those with issues relating to alcohol abuse, this means
engaging in binge drinking with the slightest regard for the consequences such
an unhealthy behavior may bring over the short and long term. Indeed, for
alcoholics, everything else is relegated below their ultimate priority, which
is to satiate their taste for alcohol whenever or wherever they may be.
 
Tendency
to lie to cover up alcohol abuse
It's
not uncommon to hear stories of married people telling their spouses that they
will be out late for overtime or a business event when in fact they will be out
drinking. Of course, this is only one example of how those suffering from
alcoholism will go to great lengths to cover up their predilection to consume
alcohol, even if this means lying to the people they love. Don't take even the
smallest lie lightly. The fact that they have to resort to making up stories
just goes to show that they are completely aware that whatever they're doing is
not going to sit well with the people they are trying to hide it from. This is
another tell-tale sign that their alcohol consumption is going too far.
 
Inability
to control urges
An
almost palpable sense of helplessness is apparent among those who have a
drinking problem. Similar to those suffering from other forms of addiction,
alcoholics cannot willfully muster the motivation or energy to say "no" to
their urges. This is because their mind is conditioned to view alcohol intake
as an extremely satisfying behavior. As such, everything else just wouldn't
give them the same kind of high or satisfaction that they get when intoxicated.
 
Neglect
of responsibilities at home, school, or at work
Since
everything else in the life of an alcoholic is now relegated below the
hierarchy of priorities wherein alcohol consumption comes out on top, there is
a marked neglect of one's duties and obligations to family and friends as well
as a noticeably dismal performance at work or at school. Alcoholism, or any
other form of addiction for that matter, negatively alters one's sense of focus
and concentration to the point that one disengages from everything else as he
or she gets buried deep in alcohol dependence. This apparently leads to social
withdrawal, reduced productivity at work, and failing marks at school.
Alcohol
is widely known for its ability to cause impulsive and irrational behavior. The
fact that it lowers inhibitions means that it becomes very easy to ignore
important responsibilities. For example, someone who is addicted to alcohol might
shun friends, fail to keep appointments or even skip out on work or school in
favor of getting drunk. Obviously, this sort of behavior can have serious
consequences.
 
Spending
too much money on alcohol
Money
is a non-issue for alcoholics when it comes to satisfying their alcohol
cravings. As it were, a large part of their earnings is automatically diverted
toward alcohol consumption to the detriment of far more important expenditures,
such as utilities and food, which get severely compromised as a result.
In
low income families, people can get so heavily indebted that they find
themselves selling their possessions, or worse, stealing from others just to
satiate their craving. If you notice that someone who doesn't have much money
spend a lot on alcohol, you can be fairly sure they have a drinking problem.
 
Greater
risks to the safety and security of one's self and of others
The
sense of danger and caution that we ordinarily harbor from day to day becomes
greatly diminished once we consume excessive amounts of alcohol. In fact, we
quickly lose our initial inhibitions about everything when we are drunk. This
is the reason why alcohol is often referred to as a social lubricant; it gives
us the will and confidence to say or do things we wouldn't otherwise be able to
say or do when sober. However, this newfound confidence is the same reason why
fights or brawls normally erupt between and among drunk individuals. This is
also what gives people the idea to do things that put them at risk of hurting
themselves or others, or else of being apprehended for doing something illegal.
Driving under the influence or DUI, for example, is a very serious offense that
has resulted in the deaths of one too many drunk drivers and innocent people
who were unfortunate enough to figure in such deadly encounters.
 
Increasing
alcohol tolerance
The
mind gets easily accustomed to habits; it develops tolerance to the usual
things over time. This is precisely the reason why addiction is the kind of
problem that naturally progresses from worse to worst, particularly when left
unchecked. If you get a high after a round of, say, three bottles of beer,
sooner or later your mind gets used to this amount of alcohol, so much so that
you have to increase your intake to four or five bottles to achieve the same
high. Indeed, as your mind and body develop greater tolerance to alcohol, the
greater amount of alcohol you need to drink to feel high.
If
you notice someone drink a lot before effects happen, you can be sure they are
drinking too much in general. Otherwise, they wouldn't have this level of
tolerance.
 
Depression
and Anxiety
Another
tell-tale sign of addiction is when people become subject to negative feelings,
such as distress and extreme restlessness, once the addictive substance is
taken out of the equation. They have gotten so used to indulging in this
substance that their minds and bodies find it difficult to deal without it.
This situation can turn into a condition known as withdrawal syndrome, which is
discussed in detail in the succeeding chapters.
Fortunately,
for all the negative effects alcoholism has on one's self and on others, it is
a condition that is entirely treatable. In the next chapter, I give an outline
of some concrete measures and strategies that can be done to kick-start the
recovery process.
As
mentioned in the introduction according to statistical data, an estimated 15
percent of American adults struggle with a drinking problem. Furthermore, some
30 percent of Americans also admit to having had a drinking problem at some point
in their lives. Unfortunately, the actual numbers may be much higher.
Because
of this, it's important to be able to recognize the symptoms of alcoholism so
that treatment may begin as soon as possible.
While
drinking may seem uplifting at first, the toxicity of the alcohol quickly takes
hold. Prolonged drinking eventually causes levels of happiness-inducing
neurotransmitters, namely serotonin and dopamine, to plummet. The result is an
inability to enjoy activities, feeling hopeless, a lack of motivation, guilt,
anger and frustration. Much of the time, feelings of anxiety accompany the
depression and tend to be more intense the longer drinking continues.
 
 

Symptoms of Alcoholism
often times unnoticed but most of the time greatly affects the individual and
the people around him/her image from Flikr by David Goehring
 










Chapter 7: The Alcohol Addiction
Cure
The
time has come to tell you about the most powerful technique I know to change
any food related behavior. It is a solution that has the capacity to create an
immediate change. With this, I once managed to get one of my coaching clients
to quit drinking in only 10 minutes, and I'm not exaggerating.
What
we feel about something is determined by what we connect to it. For example,
most people are afraid of crocodiles, and the reason is that they associate
pain and death with them. The same is true for snakes and a lot of other
animals.
Consider
what happens when you fall in love. In this situation, you somehow develop an
endless list of little details that you adore about the person of your
affections. This list usually contains some rather elusive things that wouldn't
occur to anyone else.
Remember
what I said before: What we feel about something is determined by what we
connect to it. So when you fall in love, your mind automatically establishes a
wide range of connections that associate every detail of the other person with
a good feeling. Suddenly, even disgusting things can be cute.
What
would happen if a person afraid of crocodiles or snakes would go through the
same process, but consciously? What if this person would choose to look at the
best available photography of these animals and ask the following question: Is
there something beautiful about this animal?
As
I mentioned before, if you ask your brain a question, it will come up with
answers. The person might realize that snakes can have brilliant colorations
and beautiful patterns in their scales. Furthermore, many species seem to smile
like dolphins and their slithering motion often shows great elegance. The
person might also come to understand that a snake is very limited and that its
only way to defend itself is to bite, but that it doesn't actually want to.
Biting is a waste of their venom, which is their savings account. If they use
their venom, they have to hunt and eat to produce more of it. What a snake
really wants to do is move away from you, find a mate, curl up and have young.
It is not an evil ugly monster.
The
reason I picked this example is because I cured another one of my coaching clients
from a snake phobia this way. Once the new understanding was in place, once
their mind was reconditioned to connect good things with snakes, these animals
didn't seem all that terrible anymore. My client even got to experience what
snake scales feel like, and that if you rub their belly, they sometimes twitch
as if they were ticklish. It didn't take long for my client to take a liking to
snakes, and after looking at dozens of photos of them, they even became
beautiful to look at.
When
it comes to ridding yourself of alcohol, you must do the opposite and
recondition your mind to connect bad things with it. If nothing else works for
you, this technique will, if it is done properly. It utilizes how the human
brain fundamentally connects emotions to things, just like it happens in love.
You
may be conditioned to like some aspects of how alcohol takes, how it feels in
your mouth, what effects it has on your state of mind or some other qualities.
Instead
of these positive things, you need to think of alcohol as the fatty, dirty,
liver-destroying, life taking, venomous substance it really is.
I
want you to put a bottle of alcohol on the table. Imagine a score from -10 to
+10 that measures how much you like this bottle and its content. Gradually, try
to imagine, as best as you can, in which state this bottle would have to be in
order to score only a 5 on the scale. Then move on to make it only a 3 in your
mind, then a 1, then a 0, then a -3 and so on until you finally reach -10.
First,
you could imagine that the alcohol is warm, so it definitely isn't a +10. Next,
you could imagine that it has been open for too long and that dust is starting
to settle on it. Then you could imagine some ants crawling around the bottle,
perhaps even floating inside. Imagine that it smells disgusting now, and that
it more and more resembles raw oil.
As
you go for the negative numbers, you could imagine how other insects start
crawling around the bottle. A green shimmering fly that just checked out the
garbage is landing on the bottle, also falling inside, followed by some worms
and spiders or whatever you want to imagine.
Think
of a destroyed, smoking, coal-like liver as the kind of thing the alcohol is
doing to your body. Equate alcohol with death, ugliness and disgusting smells.
As
you go for -10, do the worst mental gore to the bottle of alcohol you can come
up with. You could imagine picking it up, smelling a dead animal from its
insides, and as you turn it around, worms upon worms start bleeding out of it.
You can also imagine that the secret ingredients in alcohol are actually some
of the most disgusting things you can come up with.
Once
you are done with this exercise, see if you still want to empty the bottle. If
you do, repeat the exercise. Repeat it again and again, not only on this day,
but the next day. If you recondition what you associate with alcohol, if you
associate it with absolute disgust, your brain will accept the new pattern and
you will automatically be cured. It can literally be this easy.
While
you are using this technique, you can also imagine how nice and refreshing it
would be to get away from this disgusting, stinky, insect ridden bottle and
drink some pure water. If you feel thirsty upon imagining this, get up and
drink some water right after the exercise is done, taking a deep breath
afterwards and relishing the pureness and cleanliness of it. Just do it.
This
way you will not only connect disgusting images and emotions with the alcohol
but also establish the cleanliness of water.
Treatment
for alcoholism is something that many people do not seek out. The problem is
that many alcoholics do not immediately recognize that they have a problem.
Many believe that their drinking is under control. They may rationalize having
too much to drink one night as something they did because they had a bad day.
They may rationalize drinking all day long as part of vacation, or the weekend,
or a special occasion, or to relax. Alcoholics will use anything as an excuse
to drink.
Many
hide their drinking from others and rationalize that with the thought that
other people are judgmental over things that they don't understand. Oftentimes
it takes the intervention of an alcoholics loved ones to help them overcome
their dependency on alcohol. For those who are suffering from alcoholism or
love someone who is suffering from alcoholism, there are different treatment
options available.
 
Rehabilitation
Many
alcoholics find that rehabilitation centers are helpful at helping them
overcome their alcohol dependency. The first step to treating alcoholism in
rehab is with detoxification. This is the process of removing the alcoholic
from all forms of alcohol until their body is finished with withdrawal
symptoms. When a person becomes dependent on something such as alcohol, their
body cannot stand not having that substance in it. During the withdrawal
process, many alcoholics require medication to help them manage their confusion
and their visions. This is all done in the presence of medical professionals
who are trained to deal with detoxification and withdrawal.
Alcoholics
in rehab will meet with counselors who will help them learn what provokes their
drinking. There is always an underlying problem that causes people to turn to
alcohol. By identifying it and learning what puts them over the edge, alcoholics
are taught to avoid that trigger and to turn to something healthy in the
future.
Some
counseling is done one on one and other counseling is done in a group setting.
Group counseling helps people understand their alcoholism, but it also provides
support to alcoholics from the counselor and others who are suffering from
alcohol abuse. These group sessions provide people with motivation and
determination to continue to overcome their alcoholism.
 
Medical
Treatment for Alcoholism
There
is a medical drug that is designed to help people stop drinking. It won't make
them not want to drink, but this drug, called disulfiram, reacts when mixed
with alcohol. It makes the person who drinks feel sick. It causes nausea,
vomiting, and headaches. Acamprostate is a drug that helps people fight the
urge to drink, and naltrexone is a drug that blocks people from feeling happy
and light after they drink. In effect, drinking has no effect on those people,
which causes them to see no point in drinking.
There
are many different treatment options for those who suffer from alcohol abuse.
Each one is different and not everyone responds to the same type of treatment,
which is why it is important for people to give different treatments a chance
before deciding what works.
 










Chapter 8: Alcohol Addiction
Recovery
When
a person suffers from alcohol abuse or alcoholism it is entirely possible that
they can overcome their drinking habits and begin the recovery process. In
fact, studies show that approximately 50 to 60 percent of the people who make
it through one year of recovery will remain free of alcohol for the rest of
their lives. Others might have one or more relapses, but each time they become
stronger and more able to overcome their addition or abuse. The people who
remain sober for life are the ones who have a good support system in their
friends, family, and alcohol support groups. People who do not have support
from their friends and family are the ones who are more likely to relapse.
No
one can stop drinking until they realize and admit that they have a problem
with alcohol. Unfortunately, most people with drinking problems are not aware
of the fact that their drinking is a problem. Many of these people assume that
they have the ability to stop drinking at any time but that they don't want to
stop at the moment. Alcohol addiction is a process, and the process has to
start somewhere.
Once
a person with an alcohol problem admits the problem, stops drinking, and seeks
help, the recovery process can begin. The first step is detoxification and
withdrawal. During this process medical professionals administer medication to
the addict to help them deal with withdrawal symptoms, such as visions and
hallucinations. From this point on, the recovery period consists of counseling.
During
counseling, the person who suffers from alcohol abuse or alcoholism learns what
makes them tick. At some point in their life, alcoholics go through something
that causes them to turn to alcohol for help with the coping method. When the
person who suffers from alcoholism or abuse learns what this is, they can learn
how to avoid situations that mimic it and how to deal with it in a healthier
manner. Group counseling sessions allow addicts and abusers to share their
stories. They share how they got started drinking, why they drank, what they
did when they drank, and what caused them to make the decision to stop
drinking. People with alcoholism or abuse problems will hear the stories of
other people just like them, and they can all lean on one another for support.
This
form of support is just as important as the support that addicts and abusers
receive from their families. These supporters are there for each other
throughout the recovery process, which lasts forever.
 










Chapter 9: Starting the Sober
Journey Safely
After
setting your plans and goals you are now safe to start you sober life. Whereas
quite a number of people will need the help of medical care and supervision to
quit drinking others manage to do so on their own. The option that suits you
will only be dependent on the period, frequency as well as rate of your
drinking. In some instances if you have got health problems associated with
drinking it is advisable to seek medical and health care. All that we are all
craving and yearning for is starting a life that is sober in a way that is safe
and productive.
According
to the health science, the body of a person becomes alcohol dependent when one
drinks a lot of it and in a frequent manner. Thus you will be physically
dependent on things that are associated with alcohol. Some of the alcohol
withdrawal symptoms include;
·        
Shaking,
·        
Sweating,
·        
Nausea or vomiting,
·        
Headaches,
·        
Increase in blood pressure or increased
heart rate,
·        
Concentration and sleeping problems,
·        
Restlessness and anxiety; as well as
·        
Diarrhea and stomach cramps.
 
Commonly
these symptoms will last for about five days to one week in case you are not a
frequent drinker. Although for those who have been drinking heavily throughout
their lives the conditions can cost them their life as situations are normally
not that pleasant. The following conditions might be evident;
·        
Disorientation and confusion
·        
Severe vomiting
·        
Fever
·        
Convulsions or seizures
·        
Hallucinations
·        
Extreme agitation
The
signs mentioned above come due to alcohol withdrawal that is severe. This might
be due to a problem known as DTs, Delirium Tremens. Rarely will you find people
with this problem but in case you fall victim of it in the process, seeking an
instant medical attention will give you an optimum care. Actually it might be
associated with alteration in the circulation of blood as well as breathing.
Alternatively
in case you have been drinking throughout your life time, seeking a Detox
program gives you ultimate results. This is a program that you can take will in
hospital, on outpatient basis or in a facility for alcohol treatment. It's the
preferred method for heavy drinkers. You will undergo through a medical
prescription that will prevent any symptoms or complications that might be
associated with the withdrawal and quitting process.
Greater
positivity
Inspire
greater positivity in your life by aiming for an improved overall sense of
well-being covering your mental, emotional, and physical states.
If
your mind is conditioned to grab a drink as a result of stress from work, then
it is high time that you develop healthier and more sustainable stress
management strategies. A good way to begin is by resorting to easy relaxation
techniques that you can perform at your desk such as deep breathing, crushing a
stress ball, looking at anything green, going for a quick walk in nature,
listening to relaxing music, or practicing alternative relaxation exercises
like yoga and tai chi.
Another
common trigger for alcoholism has something to do with psychological problems.
If you are drinking as a result of unresolved emotional issues, seek help to
identify its root and determine what you need to do in order to alter your
prevailing thought patterns. Be proactive in seeking a more holistic
perspective.
As
for your physical state, try to live an active lifestyle. Allot part of your
schedule for regular exercises. Whenever possible, take part in your favorite
sports as a productive recreational activity. Working out and being in tiptop
condition have been found to boost confidence and improve self-esteem, giving
you the positive disposition you need to seek more fruitful and worthwhile
endeavors instead of merely grabbing a drink.
Follow
this up by being mindful of your diet. This is not only good for your liver, as
mentioned before, but eating well and having a full stomach are also an
effective way of reducing alcohol cravings.
 
Engaging
in your passions
A
great way to keep your mind off alcohol is by engaging in your passions or
interests. Find out what you really want to do and dwell on it. The more
immersed you are in doing something that you love, the lesser the chances that
you experience a relapse.
 
Morning
Affirmations
A
strategy I personally use to get the best out of me is to do affirmations every
morning when I get up. What this means is that you say certain sentences, such
as: "I intend to live a healthy life and discover more and more healthy foods
to eat and enjoy."
I
have a long list of such sayings, and by speaking them out loud, my
subconscious mind stays aware of them. Thinking isn't enough. If your brain has
to verbalize thoughts, it has to work more and automatically pays more
attention to the content of those thoughts.
The
openings of your affirmations you should use are "I intend" or "I will easily".
"I
will easily stay sober. I will easily come to despise alcohol and like healthy
foods."
Perhaps
you find this silly, but I know a lot of millionaires that do this routine once
every day. There are certain things successful people do that get them to where
they are, and it is wise to model their behavior.
Never
use words like "hope", "could" and such, as these are needy words and make an
"if only" statement. You want to be sure of yourself and show your power. The
warrior within you has to speak, not a mouse.
There
is a second level to affirmations, which is a list of things you are grateful
for. Your brain is like a search engine. Most people ask it what's bad about
their life, and it will come up with answers. If you ask it what's great about
your life, it will come up with answers, too. So make a list of things you are
grateful for and speak them every morning.
Personally,
I have a small trampoline to jump on when I do this and get ready for the day.
You can also jump a bit on the spot to feel energized, while you say your
affirmations. This is what I used to do before I bought my trampoline. I'm a
health coach, writer and business owner, so I need the energy, the focus, and
the clear mind to be at my best every day. What works for me and other busy,
successful people is certainly going to work for you.
Lastly,
I want to mention that when you wake up, your body is dehydrated and craves
nothing more than water. So drink it. No juice, no alcohol, just water. High
quality water at best, not just tap water.










Chapter 10: Concrete Measures to
End Alcoholism
As
stated in the introduction part, the journey to stop alcoholism and alcohol
abuse requires self-commitment. This is not something that you can do overnight
and expect to be successful. Maybe you can decide to change and transform in
suddenly but be sure you won't make any big change in your life. Alcohol
"quitting, recovery and treatment" is a process that requires gradual handling.
During
the initial stages of alcohol stoppage you will be required to have
self-denial. There will be the hangovers, craves as well as yearn to be in the
company of alcohol and your alcoholic friends. Many people admit to their
friends and families that they have made the decision to stop and quit
alcoholism, but end up getting back to it severally or fully with some excuses.
When deciding you should not drag back your feet, in the name of partying or
bash.
Thinking
about the benefits of drinking and not drinking; think about the costs of
drinking and not drinking, rate the two. Which is one benefits you? Which one
is expensive? Perhaps, drinking goes on the negative sides for both the two
cases. You can take a pen and a paper then write the answers to the following
question. That is while drinking and while not drinking; after that perform an
evaluation and then decide whether to or not to quit drinking.
There
is no medical cure for alcoholism, but this shouldn't deter you from sporting a
genuine desire to quit drinking. There are a number of approaches that you can
choose from to effectively inhibit yourself from succumbing to some of the old
behavioral patterns that push you to drink. We shall first look at these
approaches, before I explain my favorite technique in the final chapter of this
book.
Any
treatment or healing process designed to overcome alcohol abuse need to begin
with the admission of a problem and a sincere willingness to change for the
better. In the absence of the resolve to change things, it would be very
difficult to get past your addiction without the risk of eventually falling
back into a relapse.
In
war, business, and personal change, one needs to make a total commitment.
 
Creating
goals
Begin
by creating a set of realistic and reasonable goals to guide you as you go
along. These goals will lend a direction as to where and how you want to see yourself
in the days ahead. In creating your goals, acknowledge your own limitations.
This is because it is so easy to create lofty goals but these are normally very
hard to follow through.
For
instance, saying you want to be sober for a year may sound pretty reasonable
until you realize that a full year is far too long a period of time and that a
lot of things can happen in between. Of course this is not to say it's
impossible to maintain sobriety for a year — far from it. The only point here
is that setting your sights on a difficult goal can be made easier by creating
a set of small and attainable goals.
A
better way to go about it is by starting with a weekly goal. Once you have
reached this goal, you can aim for something bigger, such as staying alcohol-free
for a full month. As you progress, create a quarterly goal. Being sober for
half a year is the next logical sequence, and before you know it, you're on
your way to being free from alcohol for a year. The series of little successes
you have managed to achieve over the course of a year can all add up to give
you the necessary motivation and drive to get you going.
 
Don't
talk about it
See,
if you tell people about your goals, they are likely to praise you, wish you
good luck, or something along those lines. This experience, however, is like a
positive outcome and activates the pleasure center in your brain. You
automatically feel like you already achieved something and are less likely to
go through with it. Studies have demonstrated that people who get praised after
telling others about their goals feel they are already well on their way to
success, while people that don't tell feel they still have a long way to go.
So
consider not sharing your goals and daily or weekly achievements with friends
or on Internet forums. Just do it and you are much more likely to succeed.
 
Identifying
and managing triggers
You
should also be fully aware of the factors that trigger your desire to turn to
alcohol for comfort or some semblance of escape. In order to effectively map
out a blueprint designed to address your alcohol problem, you should be fully
cognizant of these so-called triggers, for alcoholism as a problem doesn't rise
out of nowhere. It has to come from somewhere. These triggers are precisely the
things that you should be on top of if you want to end your dependence on
alcohol.
Some
of the common triggers for alcohol abuse are stress, emotional issues,
financial problems, low self-esteem, inability to handle loneliness or
disappointments, and family troubles. In general, handling any of these
admittedly complex issues requires strong will and an ample dose of positivity.
Later in the succeeding chapters, I will give you a couple of pointers on how
to integrate positivity and strong will as components of your lifestyle.
On
your own, there are a lot of measures that you can do in order to kick-start
your recovery from unhealthy alcohol intake.
Remove
all forms of alcoholic drinks from your home. If you intend to be sober over
the long term, there are no ifs and buts with regard to this. Be uncompromising
as you sweep up your place for anything that might cause you to fall into a
relapse. Check every nook and cranny to make sure nothing is left behind. Once
done, pour down the drain all the alcohol you've managed to find. Don't feel
bad about throwing away pricey liquor.
Stay
away from bars, clubs, or any setting where alcohol is served. This may come
across as a tall order, but you really don't have much choice. Going to the
usual watering hole only makes it difficult for you to control your urges and
resist the social pressure to down a few shots with other people.
Create
a new routine. If you have gotten so used to your previous schedule where a
certain time of the day had been allotted specifically for drinking, then shake
up your routine and create a new one. This way, you get to disabuse yourself of
the idea that you have to drink at a particular time of day.
Reconsider
who your friends are. It might surprise you that you and the people you hang
out with most of the time share only one common trait, and that is your love
for alcohol. Think about it for a second and try to understand if this is what
friendship means. If you are out to stop being dependent on alcohol, you're
probably better off without your drinking buddies.
Whenever
you feel like grabbing a bottle or two (or more), think of the immediate
negative consequences you are set to encounter. For example, the money you just
spent on a drink could have been part of your savings. Additionally, if your
family knows about your goal, you would disappoint them. Most of the things
humans do is to avoid pain and get pleasure. So by imagining and concentrating
on some other pain, the pain of having to stay away from alcohol becomes more
bearable.
Reinforce
your desire to steer clear of any alcoholic beverage by associating it with
negative imagery. Going through blackouts, doing stupid things, vomiting in
public spaces, and hurting yourself and other people are just some of the bad
things that can happen if you decide to drink again. Remember to always take
full control of your urges.
And
as always, consult with a medical practitioner to find out the healthiest way
to quit alcohol. If you are a really heavy drinker, going cold turkey in a snap
may pose a series of negative side effects symptomatic of withdrawal syndrome.
Some experts believe that from a medical perspective, gradually decreasing the
amount of alcohol consumed is a far better option than just deciding to
completely ditch alcohol in one fell swoop. The dynamics of withdrawal syndrome
are discussed in detail in the next chapter.
With
proper evaluation of both the instances you will find that drinking has got no
any benefits. It is also evident and clear that drinking costs you a lot. It
makes you not to focus on what you are supposed to, through creation of
delusion in your mind. Perhaps, losing friends that you have been drinking with
can be apparently costly, but look, you can still get good friends that are
focus in other areas of life who will ultimately assist you to fulfill your new
plans and goal. In case you are a teen, consider engaging in games, movies and
outs including life adventures. You will never imagine how wonderful your life
can turn out to be!
 










Chapter 11: Setting Goals and
Preparing or Change
You
have now made a decision to commit yourself! I am sure you have seen clearly
there is no any advantage associated with drinking and this is why you are
here; congratulations! Once you have successfully made this great decision, you
have to get on goals establishment. This is pertaining to drinking and how you
want to stop and quit it. You will require to have goals and steps that are
clear and realistic- the better way to cope.
You
may want to stop and quit drinking just at once, although this can be quit
impossible if you have been addicted for a very long time. For the latter you
will be requiring having a gradual drinking reduction until you can quit the
same at once. Here consider quitting drinking on some days in the week. Such
that you may decide there will be no any drinking at the initial phase for all
Sundays then progress and include Saturdays as a no drinking day. You will find
that you will progress like that and within three month there will be no any
cravings for drinking. I any case if you are a daily drinker you may commit
yourself to stop drinking in two days phases.
After
you have made the above decision the next step is to decide which day you would
wish to start drinking less or stop it and quit. This can be the next day, a
week after, a month, or even after half a year. Specifying the quitting date is
always a very important idea. When you do this in writing it even makes it
better. This will add value and help you actually fulfill these plans and
goals.
The
other important things to consider include, ways of overcoming the temptation
that will come along the way, how to announce your goal to family members as
well as friends, ways of getting the upfront of your new drinking limits, how
you will avert the influences that will come along as well as leaning from your
past life while you were drinking.
Temptations
will come along the way, but removing anything associated with alcohol around
your office and home is quite advisable, this will include alcohol bottles and
home barware. Let your members of the family, co-workers, as well as friends
get the fact that you have decided to get rid of drinking; in case there are
some who will be drinking advice them not to do at your place to avoid tempting
you.
You
can make the decision to attend any occasion where alcohol is served as well as
be in company of your "former" drinking friends. Creating a distance with those
people who don't give you support in your decision can be very good. This will
add more effort on your plans. If it means giving up social and friends
connections let it be! Learning from your previous attempts to stop drinking
can also be an upfront. You will be able to know what didn't work and what
worked. This will also give you some good ways of "pitfalls" avoidance.
 










Chapter 12: Stop Drinking: Fully
or Gradually?
Analyzing
the severity of the problems associated with your drinking can give you the
best answer for this question. This will include rating the number of time you
have been drinking, how you spend, how long you have been drinking, how you
spend when with friends to mention just but a few cases. It is also important
to note the fact that alcoholism means that you are not able to get a good
control of yourself when drinking as well as the drinking itself. Thus, for any
alcoholic person it is good to make a decision and stop it unanimously.
According
to the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, making a decision of
cutting drinking is recommended when you want to quit drinking due to health
and personal reasons. This will give your body and mind a time to cope with the
new situation and get rid of the anxiety that would be associated with
drinking. Considering setting a self drinking plan or goal can make it
effective. As said earlier make a choice of drinking a two bottles a day, got
to one bottle and then half, from there you can easily quit. Writing down your
plan makes it effective.
The
other best ways of coping with the situation includes keeping a drinking diary.
Write down in the diary all the time you have drank, days, weeks, months as
well as the number of drinks and the friend that were in the drinking process.
Ensure that this diary shows a gradual change in drinking. Ensure that you
don't keep any alcohol at home or only keep an amount that is very small.
It
is advisable to take food before drinking. Considering drinking alcohol along
with juice, soda or water also makes you to relatively drink a small amount of
alcohol. Other important thing to consider includes taking a break in each
drinking activity as well as stopping at some point and relaxing. During the
breaks that can be a day or two have time and rate your emotions as well as how
you feel physically. You will find it is very easy to quit drinking when you
have succeeded and your feeling is good!

Your choice depends on
your preference but gradual withdrawal is ideal for your body to adjust
properly image from Flickr by Wulf Forrester-Barker
 










Chapter 13: Handling Cravings and
Triggers
In
the first few months after quitting drinking you will find it severe to control
the cravings associated with alcohol. This should not stress you nor get you
back to alcohol! With proper alcohol treatment you will get best ways of coping
with such situations. You will be able to adopt the new life and control the
alcohol cravings, social pressures as well as situations that are stressful.
 
Ways
of avoiding things that trigger drinking;
You
may start this journey by avoidance of areas, people as well as activities that
initiate alcohol craving. Here you will be required to have a lot of social
life changes. Avoidance of buddies that drink is recommended. You can also
decide to give up such friends! Don't count that you have lost; this is a gain
in long term.
Have
the practice of saying "No" to alcoholic drinks during social functions.
Generally, you will still find roadblocks to your new lifestyle; you might meet
in a social function where alcohol s offered or be force to attend a friend's
bash where you will be offered with alcohol. Have the practice of saying, "No
Thanks", when you are asked to share alcoholic drinks.
 
The
following strategies will assist you in alcohol cravings management. How to
manage alcohol cravings:
·        
Initiate a talk to a person that you
trust. This can be a member of the family, alcohol-free friend or sponsor. It
should be a person of faith.
·        
Get personal distractions like music
listening, going for a walk, performing some housecleaning or even tacking
quick tasks. This will give room for the urge to pass.
·        
Always keep reminding yourself on some
of the factors that made you never to drink again. Always "remind your mind"
that drinking don't make you feel better.
·        
Accepting the urge can make things
better. Ride over it, this is known as urge surfing. It is achieved by
meditation. This is something that will crest and then break. After breaking it
will dissipate. When you handle it this way it will actually cease.
 
"Urge
surfing" steps
·        
Start by having an inventory of some of
the experiences you have during the craving period. This should be done in
writing. Consider sitting down, maybe on a chair in a place that is cool.
Breathe inwards quite a number of times and wander your attention throughout
the body to feel where you feel the craving. When you notice some of the areas
that you are experiencing the urge jot them down. Do this during several
cravings.
·        
Focus in each and every area at a time.
You may be feeling numb, tingly or cold. Sometimes hot. Focus of your muscles.
Are they relaxed or tensed? What is the size of the involved area? Is there any
tension in your mouth or lips? After considering all these factors then you can
progress to the last step. This will help you ride it out.
·        
Perform a repetition of the process.
Ensure that you keep focus on each of them. Jot down some descriptions on how
the changes in these areas happen. Generally people experience cravings in the
same area mostly. When you meditate on this the urge vanishes. This is the
natural way of handling craving successfully. Believe me it has worked out for
many and it will also work for you!

Drinking with friends;
a common temptation in handling alcohol urges image by Flickr by Frederick
Olofsson
 










Chapter 14: Getting Help and Support
Help
and support is very essential. It doesn't matter whether you will make the
choice of getting it from therapist, outpatient programs, rehab, self-treatment
approach or hospitals. All you are required here is never to try to go through
it alone. Getting people who you can rely on in terms of guidance, comfort or
encouragement can be a great achievement. Consider the fact that you were
addicted to alcohol and you are trying to cope with the new situation
None
of us is perfect. In dealing with life and everything that it has to offer, we
commit our own fair share of misgivings such as turning to alcohol as a
convenient means of escape. What's important, though, is that we learn from our
mistakes and that we resolve to become better as a result of the lessons we've
picked up along the way.
Perhaps
the greatest challenge for any recovering alcoholic is sustaining the positive
changes that have been made ever since they decided to quit the bottle. It's
never going to be easy. Similar to other forms of addiction, drinking has a
tendency to recur over and over again, particularly when the triggers that
cause such behavior are not sufficiently addressed and resolved. It is, in
other words, a lifetime battle that you should win at every opportunity.
Not
everybody has the will to quit alcohol on their own. Even if you come to the
point where you realize you have is an addiction, you might find yourself
unable to face it head-on and finally put an end to it.
 
Joining
support groups
One
of the most popular ways to overcome alcohol addiction is by joining support
groups such as Alcoholics Anonymous or AA. This group follows the 12-step
approach to recovery, which is also now being utilized for support groups
catering to people who suffer from other forms of addiction. Meetings at AA
usually involve sharing of individual stories about how the problem with alcohol
dependence started, the factors that triggered it, how it affected one's life,
and the steps being done to overcome it.
Much
of the success of AA is rooted in the idea that you are not alone in your
struggles against alcohol. There are in fact other people who are in the same
boat as you are or maybe even in a far worse situation than yours. The fact
that you are able to talk about your issues freely, without fear of being
judged and with others willing to lend an ear, provides you the outlet that you
need to verbalize your problems and eventually conquer them. Listening to the
stories of others and how they have managed to rise above their situation also
provides you the much-needed reassurance that it is not entirely impossible to
get your life back together and start with a clean slate.
Studies
show that when combined with other treatments, joining a support group like AA
is a more effective way of beating alcoholism than merely undergoing regular
treatment. But then again, this remains very subjective because at the end of
the day, everything still boils down to your willingness and drive to overcome
your condition.
This
help or support can be attainable when you rely on counselors, friends, family
as well as co-workers and other healthcare providers. The following steps will
assist you to cope with the support and help care:
·        
The initial step is making reliance with
family and friends. This is an asset that is invaluable in the process of
recovering. In case you have let your loved ones down before you can opt to
seek help from family therapy or couples counseling. All you need is a shoulder
to lean on.
·        
Building a social network that is sober
gives you another advantage. Making new connections can achieve this in case
you revolved in an alcoholic social life. Having friends that are sober ensures
that you have supported your process of recovery. Consider joining a civil
group, church group, attending events as well as volunteering in social
activities.
·        
Make a consideration of moving to a home
that has got a sober living. This will ensure that you have got place that is
supportive, safe as well as convenient for you to live during your process of
recovery. Remember that you were addicted to alcohol and thus you need a cool
place to relieve the anxiety associated with this. Here you should find an
alcohol-free environment for living.
·        
The last step is ensuring that you are
attending regular meetings. This should be made a priority. It can be a group
where you meet to discuss about alcohol and their negative factors so that you
will always be reminded. This will also ensure that the people who you spend
most of your time with have the understanding of what you are going through in
the process of healing and recovery.
 
A need for support
group greatly helps fast in alcholism recovery. Image from Flickr by
The Home of Fixers on Flickr
 










Chapter 15: Getting on Track on a
Treatment Program
Take
advantage of some of the addiction programs and therapies that are there. This
is aside from joining the supportive and help groups. There are varied options
available although it is also good to put consideration on some of the
following.
Due
to the fact that different people adjust on different treatment programs
finding a program that suits you is highly recommended. Have the best therapy
or program customized to you.
Treatment
address more than your alcoholic life. Considering the fact that due to
addiction there was an effect on your relationships, health, psychology as well
as career gives you the importance of seeking treatment. There will be deep
examination of your life to ensure everything is in order. This will impact and
develop a lifestyle that is new.
Consider
seeking for in case you have psychological problems. You will be prescribed to
the proper medications or be initiated on a counseling program that will see
you through this nightmare. Generally as mentioned earlier alcohol abuse is
associated with people who have suffered depression, bipolar disorder, mental
problems, attention deficit disorders as well as anxiety. Thus, proper
counseling and medication can help.
Aside
from the mentioned areas treatment helps you to have focus and commitment. This
is due to the fact that the recovery and alcohol quitting program is not that
easy. In case you have been taking alcohol for a long period- heavy drinker,
consider seeking treatment.
Don't
give up; this is a process and it involves very many stages to arrive at the
final destination. In case you slip, consider it as a roadblock and try to
improve the commitment by reminding yourself why you started this program.
Rehabilitation
facilities
There
are many alcohol rehabilitation and treatment facilities that offer a full
suite of services, starting with an alcohol-free environment managed and
controlled by medical professionals. These facilities are designed to cater to
alcoholics who want to remain sober and push for sobriety over the long term.
The
kind of treatment these centers offer varies. Short-term treatments normally
include in-patient hospitalization to address the ill effects of withdrawal
syndrome. Some centers also have residential services that can be availed of
for a very limited time. Long-term treatments, on the other hand, include the
full spectrum of services, starting with hospitalization all the way to counseling
and therapy.
In
any event, availing of treatments, taking in medications to deter alcohol
intake, and joining support groups only serve as the first step that you need
to take to fully overcome alcohol abuse. What is more important is the need to
sustain the positive changes will have made during this period in order to
ensure your sobriety over the long term.
Pharmaceutical
options
Unlike
other forms of illnesses, it is important to note that there is no actual
medical cure for alcohol dependence. Thankfully, however, there are a number of
treatments and interventions available to minimize or altogether mitigate the
risks posed by excessive and unabated alcohol intake.
The
Food and Drug Administration or FDA, for example, has approved pharmaceutical
medicines designed to curb one's tendencies to grab a bottle. These are
particularly useful for recovering alcoholics. One of these is Naltrexone
(Revia). This drug is taken to reduce alcohol cravings. Another FDA-approved
drug is Antabuse (Disulfiram), which makes you sick if you decide to consume
alcohol. Lastly, there is Acamprosate (Campral). It eases the discomfort and
heavy feelings experienced by addicts following their decision to abstain from
alcohol

Rehabilitation
is badly needed for alcoholics who lost their sense of responsibility image
from Flickr by Roberto Trm










Chapter 16: Why You Need to Stop
Excessive Alcohol Drinking (Alcohol-Related Diseases)
If
you drink alcohol on a regular basis, then you should definitely consider
quitting. Excessive alcohol intake has been linked to several health problems.
Below are some of the many health conditions that are associated with excessive
alcohol use:
 
Anemia
If
you drink regularly, then you are probably lowering the number of red blood
cells in your body. Over time, this can cause a condition called anemia.
Fatigue, lightheadedness and shortness of breath are some of the most common
signs of anemia. Anemia is relatively easy to treat in most cases. However, if
anemia is not treated, then it can cause a heart attack.
 
Heart
Disease
Heart
disease kills more people in the United States each year than any other health
condition. Heavy drinking can make you more susceptible to developing heart
disease. In fact, a study done by a research group at Harvard University showed
that heavy drinkers have twice as many heart attacks as non-drinkers. When you
drink heavily, it causes the platelets in your blood to clump together and form
clots. Blood clots make you more susceptible to having a stroke or heart
attack.
Additionally,
heavy drinking puts you at risk for developing cardiomyopathy. Cardiomyopathy
is a condition that causes the heart muscle to deteriorate. Eventually, the
heart muscle will weaken, and this can cause an abnormal heart rhythm. Abnormal
heart rhythms often lead to sudden death.
 
Cirrhosis
The
liver is the organ that is responsible for breaking down toxic substances in
the body. Approximately 90 to 98 percent of the alcohol that you consume is
broken down by your liver. The liver is very efficient at breaking down
alcohol, but over time, excessive alcohol intake can severely damage the liver
cells. As a result of this, a condition called cirrhosis develops. Cirrhosis
causes the liver to scar and function poorly. Once the liver has been scarred,
it cannot return to normal.
Most
people with cirrhosis will eventually need a liver transplant. Unfortunately,
the vast majority of these patients die while they are waiting for an available
liver. It is estimated that 29,000 people in the United States die from
cirrhosis.
 
Dementia
As
you get older, your brain begins to shrink, and that is completely normal.
However, if you drink heavily, then your brain will shrink at a much faster
rate. This can put you at risk for developing dementia, which is a condition that
causes memory loss and confusion. Even though this condition typically develops
in older people, there have been cases reported of people who developed this
condition while they were in their 30s.
 
Infectious
Diseases
When
you drink alcohol, you are much more likely to make poor decisions. This can
put you at risk for developing HIV or another sexually-transmitted disease. In
fact, studies have shown that heavy drinkers are three times more likely to
develop a STD. Furthermore, excessive drinking suppresses your immune system.
Not only are you more likely to develop infectious illnesses, but your body
will also have a hard time fighting those illnesses.
 
Nutrient
Deficiency and Dehydration
After
even a short time of excessive drinking, alcoholics may start to look haggard,
sallow and unhealthy. They may also exhibit reduced cognitive performance and
low energy. Much of this is due to the fact that alcohol depletes many critical
nutrients from the body. Zinc, vitamin C and water are essential to good skin health,
so physical appearance is often the first thing that suffers when their levels
become too low. Magnesium, sodium, B vitamins, calcium and potassium are
important for energy production and nervous system function, so a deficiency in
these can be blamed for cognitive impairment and fatigue.
Metabolizing
alcohol places considerable strain on the body, causing nutrient stores to be
rapidly consumed. The nutrient levels most affected are the electrolyte
minerals calcium, magnesium and sodium. Because these minerals support the
nervous system, deficiency can contribute to heart attack, mental problems,
neuropathy and other forms of nervous system damage. The body's B vitamin
stores are also used up. This vitamin group is essential for nervous system
maintenance, mood, energy production and healthy metabolism. Furthermore, zinc,
which is critical for breaking down alcohol for excretion, is also depleted by
drinking. When levels are too low, the metabolites of alcohol linger in the
body, allowing them to cause more damage.
 
Blood
Sugar Imbalance
One
effect of alcohol that mainstream medicine often fails to consider is its
impact on blood sugar levels. The fact that alcohol is poisonous means that
your body's top priority is to get rid of it as quickly as possible. In order
to achieve this, your body shifts resources away from other processes. In this
case, it stops trying to maintain a healthy blood glucose range. Drinking also
stimulates the secretion of insulin, which over time can result in insulin
resistance. This dramatically increases the risk of metabolic syndrome, weight
gain, diabetes and alcoholic liver disease. In fact, an estimated 45 to 70
percent of alcoholics with liver disease also suffer from either insulin
resistance or diabetes.
 
Further
Blood Sugar Problems
Heavy
drinking severely disturbs the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. This
is believed to be responsible for several alcoholism-related diseases, such as
alcoholic liver disease, diabetes, metabolic syndrome, liver inflammation and
fat gain. In addition, low blood sugar, a condition that often occurs during
alcohol withdrawal, is also capable of causing violent mood swings, fatigue,
cravings for sugar and alcohol and frequent urination
Stress
Levels and Mood Impact
If
you think that having a few drinks after a bad day will help you get over it,
think again. Studies have shown that consuming alcohol after a negative
experience causes it to be more deeply imprinted into your mind. This can cause
you to dwell on the situation and blow it out of proportion, possibly causing
you to react in an unreasonable manner. In addition, alcohol abuse is also
closely associated with most major mood disorders, such as depression, anxiety
and anger issues. To make matters worse, prolonged alcohol consumption
increases levels of cortisol, the stress hormone. High cortisol leads to fat
gain, difficulty losing weight, hormonal imbalance, inflammation, low energy,
heart disease and various degenerative illnesses.
 
Further
Unstable Mood Issues
Alcohol
can have unpredictable effects on mood. It might make someone feel happy and
positive one time but cause them to become hateful and belligerent the next. It
also affects everyone differently. Some people will reliably become aggressive
and angry each time they over-imbibe. Furthermore, alcohol's short half-life in
the body means that, for chronic drinkers, withdrawal symptoms can occur mere
hours after drinking. The constant cycle of consumption and withdrawal often
results in dramatic mood changes.
 
Night
Sweats
Although
soaking the bed with sweat each night sounds more like an inconvenience than a
health risk, it should be taken seriously. Nobody seems to agree on exactly
what causes night sweats, but there is some evidence that fluctuations in blood
sugar may be to blame. The biggest threat behind this occurrence is that it
exacerbates both the advanced dehydration and nutrient deficiency often seen
with alcohol abuse. Furthermore, night sweats may also cause the sufferer to
awaken multiple times throughout the night, resulting in suboptimal sleep
quality and poor recovery from drinking sprees.










Chapter 17: Dealing with the
Effects of Withdrawal Syndrome
Deciding
to quit the bottle is one thing, but dealing with its effects is another thing
altogether. While the former is largely mental and emotional in scope, the
latter is predominantly physical. Just the same, though, it is necessary that
you remain committed to your goal of becoming alcohol-free no matter the
challenges posed by either of these things, including the possibility of having
to deal with withdrawal syndrome.
Withdrawal
syndrome covers a vast range of physical symptoms, mostly negative, that are
experienced by the body as a consequence of ditching alcohol consumption or
other addictive substances. It's the body's response to the sudden lack of
alcohol in the system. The entire duration of the withdrawal syndrome covers
the length of time that the body needs to detoxify and adjust to your modified
lifestyle.
 
Body
detox
More
than 90 percent of people who suffer from alcohol abuse are bound to experience
mild withdrawal syndrome once they stop drinking. Although uncomfortable and
painful in certain instances, the symptoms they experience are manageable and
not life-threatening. Some of these symptoms are rapid heart rate, involuntary
trembles or shakes, anxiety and restlessness, excessive sweating, foul body
odor, hallucinations and frequent nightmares, bowel movement problems, nausea,
chronic tiredness, and loss of appetite.
A
small percentage of alcohol addicts, particularly heavy drinkers, experience an
extreme form of withdrawal syndrome that can be fatal when left unchecked. The
risk of suffering from delirium tremens, a life-threatening condition
characterized by extreme convulsions and autonomic instability, is very real
for those whose attempts at quitting alcohol were done in an unsustainable
fashion. These patients normally need to undergo detoxification treatment. As
explained in the previous chapter, sometimes it is a much better option to exercise
gradual decrease of alcohol consumption over a period of time rather than
stopping immediately. This eases you out of your dependence on alcohol and
withdrawal symptoms either don't occur or do so mildly.
 
Cleansing
stage
The
negative effects of withdrawal syndrome are normally at their peak in the few
days until a few weeks following your decision to quit drinking. During this
period, the body undergoes a cleansing stage as it adjusts to your alcohol-free
lifestyle. It is important to be mindful of your diet during this period. Stock
up on food items rich in essential nutrients such as Vitamin B complex because
these are the same nutrients that alcohol prevented from being absorbed by the
system.
Getting
over the adverse effects of withdrawal syndrome is a critical component that
could spell either the success or failure of your fight against alcoholism.
After all, it is during this period when your alcohol cravings are at their
strongest, with the body looking for alcohol as a way of curing the discomfort
and pain it is going through.

Sometimes
it is very difficult to deal the withdrawal symptoms and common lapses often
occur image from Flickr by Enggul
 










Chapter 18: Don't Forget to Heal
your Liver
Stopping
to drink and dealing with the effects is good, but you also need to take care
of your health. Drinking is more detrimental to our health than most people
ever realize.
Alcohol
has the same number of calories as pure fat. It is itself a fatty substance and
begins to collect in your liver over time, especially after bouts of heavy
drinking. Your liver begins to enlarge, get painful and a long list of terrible
symptoms begin to occur. Fatty liver disease is very common and all drinkers,
without exceptions, have fat in their livers. Over time, your liver begins to
develop scar tissue (cirrhosis), eventually leading to liver failure and death.
Liver
is an internal organ weighs between 1.3 to 1.8 kilograms (35 to 65 ounces) on
the average; is around 20 to 23 centimeters (8 to 9 inches) in diameter; holds
roughly 13% (around 1 pint or 0.57 liters) of the body's total blood supply;
has an more than 500 functions; is the only organ in the body that has the
capability to regenerate itself by new tissue creation; can still function even
if a part of it is diseased or removed; and is often neglected and forgotten
until in starts failing. 
Countless
people die of liver cirrhosis every year. When the liver is shot, the whole
body is negatively affected. The body will be unable to process and regulate
the adrenal hormone aldosterone which will result in sodium and water retention
and potassium suppression; which will ultimately raise your blood pressure. All
your diet and weight loss efforts are thwarted because a toxic liver leads to
hypoglycemia, a condition that produces sugar cravings and lead to weight gain
as well as candida overgrowth. An unhealthy liver is also unable to get rid of
toxins enabling them to get into the bloodstream causing a domino effect.
First, it will trigger an immune response that will overwork the immune system.
Next, it will overload the liver and other organs with pollutants and toxins.
Over time, this may result in organ failure and will ultimately lead to death.
The
liver is your body's very own chemical processing plant. As such, it is one of
the most essential organs in the body, right there in the top tier along with
the heart and the brain. If the liver is healthy, these process and the other
five hundred functions of the liver will go smoothly. A healthy liver keeps
your body in tip top shape and keeps it working at its best. Make sure you
don't join in their fate.
Stopping
to drink immediately takes a lot of pressure off your liver. It is a very
regenerative organ that can and will heal itself, if you treat it well. As you
stop drinking, you also need to change your nutrition plan. Don't go on a fatty
liver diet, instead eat normally, but lots of healthy foods. It can be of great
help to explore and discover new, delicious foods, while you are battling your
urges regarding alcohol. Quitting on one thing is much easier if you replace it
with something else — something good for you.
I
love nutrition, and I have studied it for over 10 years. You'd be surprised how
many healthy but mind-blowingly delicious foods are available to you.
Specifically for drinkers, I've written a short and actionable book on the
right nutrition to cure or prevent fatty liver disease. You can find it here.
As
a bonus to healing your liver and living a healthier life, you will lose a lot
of weight naturally and have much more energy than before. Because of this,
quitting the bottle is something you will never regret.
The
liver performs more than 500 major and minor functions in the body day in and
day out. What happens to your liver affects the rest of the organs and the
entire body. Most people, however, do not pay much attention to this very vital
organ; that is until it causes them discomfort.
The
liver functions as the primary filter for your blood. If it is working at its
peak performance; the toxins from the blood are removed. If your liver is
overworked and overstressed, like those of alcoholics and those with very poor
diets; it would have a hard time keeping up. It becomes too busy to do what it
is intended to do.

Alcoholic abuse cause
most of the chronic diseases of the liver and quitting in drinking alcohol help
to cleanse the liver and live more healthy life image from Flickr by Glytamins
Reviews
 










Chapter 19: The Liver Cleanse: The
Remedy in Healing your Liver against Alcoholism
The
good news is something can be done to prevent the heinous liver diseases before
they even start. Improving your lifestyle and switching to a healthy diet can
significantly improve your liver's condition, thus, improving its function.
Some people and some health experts are suggesting a liver cleanse and detox.
 
What
is Liver Cleansing?
Simply
put; liver cleansing is a process that flushes out all the toxins from your
liver. This makes sure that the liver goes back to doing what it should, which
is to remove toxins and clean your blood.
 
Liver
Cleansing Process
The
entire liver cleansing process lasts for 6 days on the average. Some cleansing
programs last for 2 weeks. There are variations on the liver cleansing program
but the basics are the same.
 
Fasting
The
first stage of the liver cleanse process is done by adhering to a strict and
disciplined diet. This involves other herbal remedies and teas. Usually fasting
lasts for 2 days (but it varies depending on what program you will follow).
Some programs involve drinking tea; some call for fresh juices, salads, and
water; others endorse apple juice, Epsom salts, lemon juice, and olive oil.
 
The
Actual Cleanse
The
actual cleanse involves a series of procedures designed for cleaning the liver
as well as the gallbladders. Actual cleansing usually takes 16 to 20 hours.
There are many variations but it usually involves includes drinking oil and
fruit juice or other drinks like Epsom Salt, among others.
 
Reintroduction
of Solid Food
Once
the fasting period is completed, most cleansing programs recommend that you
gradually reintroduce solids just like raw fruits and vegetables. As weeks
pass, you can start eating cooked meals once a day.
 
Liver
Cleanse Benefits
The
objective in liver cleansing is to rid the liver of toxins to leave it healthy
and functioning properly. Liver cleansing is said to have many benefits:
By
improving the liver's health, the digestive tract as well as the immune system
will be positively affected. This will result in improved digestion of food and
becoming less prone to illnesses; thus helping you lose weight and become
stronger.
You
will be able to lower your cholesterol levels which leads to improved
cardiovascular health.
The
cleanse will also help regulate the body's blood sugar levels and fats while
increasing amino acids.
Besides
improving and maintaining overall health, liver cleanse is also said to relieve
the body of body aches, fatigue, and nausea; and result in higher levels of
body energy.
Liver
cleansing also helps improve blood circulation, stabilizes mood swings,
increases energy, helps make your sleep quality better, makes nails stronger,
improves skin appearance, and helps to decrease depression and anxiety.
The
liver cleanse also involves avoiding caffeine, alcohol, fat, and refined and
processed foods and getting rid of unhealthy habits and the result is improved
overall health.
 
Liver
Cleanse Reminders
Timing.
Liver cleansing can be done at any day as long as you are not under any kind of
pressure or stress and you have enough time to rest.
Medication.
While liver cleansing, you should avoid taking any kind of medication —
vitamins and/or supplements — that are not absolutely medically necessary. It
is crucial that the liver is not given any extra work as it could impede the
cleansing efforts.
Side
Effects. The fasting and detoxification process
may bring in some side effects which may include illness, and nausea, vomiting.
It does not mean that you are getting sick. It may simply mean that the body is
getting used to the cleansing process.
Seek
Medical Advice. Just like all kinds of
medications and diets, liver cleanse is not a one size fits all approach.
People with certain health problems such as diabetes, eating disorder, low
blood sugar or heart problems should not try liver cleanse because these
conditions might react badly or worsen in the process. In addition, fasting may
not be a healthy option for everyone. It is best to check with your physician
before going on a liver cleanse or any new dietary program, for that matter.
 










Chapter 20: The Effects of Liver
Cleanse
Liver
Cleanse is an intense process but the rewards are great, especially when done
right. Unlike other health and diet regimens; you should be expecting results
very quickly after the liver cleanse. Soon after the first cleanse, the liver
will begin to function better. You will notice sudden little improvements
within the next few hours or days. Body pains will lessen, energy will
increase, and you will be able to think more clearly.
Just
like any cleansing diet, you might also feel a variety of detox symptoms as
your body tries to remove the impurities and toxins. In the liver cleans, detox
symptoms are often experienced right after the first cleanse. You may be
frustrated to find out you have a splitting headache after a few days of the
cleanse but it does not mean that the recovery is very short-lived. It just
means that the body is adjusting. Do not worry, these symptoms will pass. Once
they do, you will be able to fully enjoy the benefits of the cleanse.
Gallstones
and Loose Bowel Movement
The
morning, up to the afternoon, following the actual cleanse, you should be
expecting numerous watery bowel movements. Initially, your bowel will consist
of gallstones and food residue. Later on, it will just be stones with water.
Most
of the gallstones are pea green in color and are easy to spot as they float in
the toilet. These shiny stones can come in all sizes, shapes, and colors.
Darker stones mean they have been there for a while. You may see dozens,
sometimes hundreds, of stones on your first cleanse. To completely remove all
gall stones from your liver will require at least 6 cleanses in 2 to 3 week
intervals.
Additionally,
there may also be a layer of chaff floating in the toilet. It could be white or
tan. This "foam" contains millions of small sharp-edged crystals made from
cholesterol and they can easily rupture the small bile ducts in your body if
not taken out.
 
Headache
According
to liver cleanse experts, a headache is the most common detox symptom of the
liver cleanse or any cleansing diet, for that matter. During the first or
second day after the actual cleanse, headaches are commonly experienced.
Drinking more fluids should ease the pain.
Fatigue
Another
very common detox symptom; fatigue results either from the change in eating
habits, food intake, or nutrient depletion. Without your usual supply of meat
and proteins as well as bread and carbohydrates; the body feels weak and tired
easily.
 
Irritability
Irritability
is a normal detoxifying symptom and should be expected within a few days after
the first cleanse. Experts say that irritability is a sure fire sign that the
body's metabolism is correcting itself. This symptom, along with headaches
should be gone in a couple of days. Calmness and body energy would replace these
symptoms afterwards.
 
Nausea
Some
liver cleans recipe, especially the ones that involves ingesting hefty amounts
of olive oil, might cause nausea. According to experts, this is because the
gallbladder is ejecting the bile and gallstones forcibly that some of the oil
is shot back into the stomach, causing the stomach to turn. A proper colon
cleanse before the liver cleanse should be done to eliminate this symptom.
 
Constipation
and Frequent Urination
Since
the process affects the digestive tract directly, frequent and uncomfortable
bowel movement should be expected during the first few days. The change in your
diet, from carbohydrate-rich to fiber-rich, is another cause of these bowel
movements. Make sure you stay hydrated. Frequent urination should also be expected
because toxins are also ejected as liquid waste.
 
Persistent
Flatulence
During
the detox process, the body tries to eliminate all toxic substances in whatever
way it can; so passing gas is a very common side effect. Try to apply chamomile
oil on the stomach to lessen flatulence and prevent foul odor.
 










Chapter 21: The Overall Health
Effects of Liver Cleanse
You
now know what liver cleanse is. You have also learned about the process of
liver cleanse. You learned about the foods you should avoid and you should eat.
You also now know the seemingly negative side effects of the detoxification
process. Finally, you know what lifestyle changes you have to make to keep your
liver healthy and happy. Now, it is time to reap the rewards.
A
healthy liver is a healthy person. When the liver is in top form, the rest of
the body follows suit. Here are some of the great long-term effects of the
liver cleanse.
 
Good
Health
If
the liver bile ducts are cleared of any obstructions and you top it off with a
balanced diet and a healthy lifestyle; the body naturally goes back to a state
of balance called homeostasis, commonly referred to as good health. If the
liver is free of gallstones and you keep it that way by eating the right foods,
exercising, sleeping well, etc.; it would be very hard to upset this balance
and you will not be easily susceptible to any kind of diseases.
 
Improved
Digestion and Energy
Good
digestion is imperative to guarantee the continuous and efficient turnover of
the body's 60 to 100 trillion cells. To maintain homeostasis, the body needs to
make around 30 billion cells to replace old worn out ones. If the digestion
process is carried out smoothly, the body generates the required number of
healthy cells to keep the whole body in top working order.
When
foods are properly digested, the liver is able to break down the parts of the
food and get rid of any impurities while ensuring that the nutrients find its
way to its intended destination; giving all the organs and the rest of the body
the vitality and energy it needs to function properly and fatigue and
sluggishness would not be a problem anymore.
 
Freedom
from Pain
Cleansing
the gallbladder and liver can help significantly reduce and even eliminate body
pains in the head, joints, muscles, nerves, or organs. If the liver is working
properly, the blood is stripped of toxins. Therefore, there will be very little
chance of infection, inflammation, and irritation.
 
Flexibility
Stiff
joints are cause by the presence of metabolic wastes that are not properly
dispelled due to poor digestion. When the liver is healthy, digestion is great.
As a result, connective tissues and cells, joints, muscles as well as the
organs receive the proper nourishment of nutrients and minerals in food, water,
and the air. When they receive the proper nourishment, body pains and stiffness
disappear, the mineral salt deposit in the neck and shoulder lessen, the whole
body begins to feel connected, and joints, muscles, and the spine becomes more
flexible.
 
Ageing
Reversal
Aging's
undesirable effects are the result of malfunctions at a cellular level. When
the body's cells cannot remove their metabolic waste quick enough, these wastes
are deposited in the cell membranes which then become garbage bins. Over time,
these garbage bins become so polluted it shows outside the body in the form of
skin problems. The skin loses its elasticity and its natural color. Blemishes,
dark spots, dryness, roughness and wrinkles begin to show.
 
Beauty
Inside Out
A
healthy liver means an improved cell metabolism. The effects of this
improvement will not only help you feel good on the inside, it will also show
health on the outside. People look younger and more radiant when they are
healthy, no matter how old they are. Some will look old and malnourished when
their bodies are tired and toxic, no matter how young they are. To achieve
beauty on the outside, you must first develop a healthy inside.
 
Improved
Emotional Health
Emotional
health is linked to physical health. Liver cleansing will help maintain emotional
balance because the liver maintains the nervous system's functions by supplying
it with essential nutrients. A happy liver leads to a happier outlook.
 
Improved
Mental Health
The
mind's attention, creativity, clarity, concentration, focus, and memory recall
depend in how well the nervous system and the brain are nourished. Nourishment
comes from the liver. With each liver cleanse, you are more likely to notice
improvement on your mental functions.
 










Chapter 22: Alcohol Awareness
Alcohol
awareness is important for ensuring that one has a healthy and responsible
attitude toward alcohol consumption. Alcohol can be consumed responsibly by
many people. This by no means applies to all people, however.
What
does responsible consumption of alcohol look like? Responsible drinkers know
their limits and don't get drunk. They may have a drink or two as part of a
social gathering, but they don't find it necessary to drink in order to
function in those types of situations. A responsible drinker does not "need"
alcohol at all and does not drink every night or even most nights of the week.
Why
do people need to consume alcohol responsibly? There are a number of reasons.
It's important to remember that alcohol is a drug. It alters perceptions and
judgments. People under the influence of alcohol may make any number of poor
decisions, and sometimes those decisions can have tragic consequences.
Automobile accidents and sexual assaults are both more likely to happen when
people have been drinking. Alcohol can also affect relationships with family
and friends over a long period of time. Some people become belligerent,
argumentative or even violent following alcohol consumption. Misuse of alcohol
can destroy marriages and other relationships. Alcohol abuse can also affect one's
employment. Turning up to work hungover or not making it into work at all will
eventually take a toll on one's performance.
Alcohol
awareness is also important in terms of health. Most people know that pregnant
women shouldn't drink alcohol; however, drinking has health implications for
everyone. Health hazards associated with heavy consumption of alcohol include
liver disease, heart problems and various cancers. Alcohol can also affect
one's ability to sleep and one's immune system. Hangovers cause illnesses as
well, and not just the headaches and vomiting that one normally associates with
them. They can also cause people to feel exhausted and run-down and have
trouble focusing. Finally, of course, there are the acute dangers of alcohol
poisoning.
People
who want to be responsible about alcohol may want to cut out drinking entirely
or may want to drink moderately. Alcohol has been shown to have some health
benefits. Interestingly, these benefits include things that are exacerbated by
high alcohol consumption including a lower risk of cardiovascular disease. The
decision to drink or not drink alcohol should be a personal one, but one
shouldn't drink solely in the hopes of pursuing some of these health benefits.
The
government has provided guidelines on responsible drinking and suggests one
drink per day for women or two drinks per day for men. A drink is a standard
12-ounce beer, 5 ounces of wine or 1.5 ounces of spirits. These truly are daily
amounts; people should not think that they can avoid drinking for six days and
down their entire allowance on the seventh.
Alcohol
awareness means having a realistic understanding of the pros and cons of
alcohol consumption. With proper education, people can make decisions that are
best for their health.
 










Chapter 23: Starting a New Lifestyle
Getting
a sober mind and life is just a milestone to your alcohol-free life. You
actually need to include professional treatment as well as rehab to initiate a
new lifestyle that is productive and long-term. You will be required to have a
life where drinking has got no place; a lifestyle that is meaningful and
productive; as well as proper connection with alcohol-free friends, workmates
and family members. The following five steps will guide you through your sober
lifestyle:
The
first thing is have a proper care of you. This means getting means of mood
swings prevention as well as cravings combating. Ensuring that you have slept
properly and eaten foods that are right and healthy gives you an addition
value. The other thing that you need to incorporate includes proper exercises;
this will assist you in relieving stress, releasing endorphins as well as
promotion of emotional well-being.
The
next step is ensuring that you have built a support network. This will be
achieved by surrounding yourself with people of purpose. Ensure that you have
social friends, family member as well as workmates that are feeling good of you
with your new life. This will keep you on the recovery track as well as ensure
that you are motivated. All you need is investing on people who help you feel
worth rather than creating embarrassments.
The
other key step is new interests and activities development. Here consider
finding new hobbies; get to work in areas that have got purpose and meaning of
sense in your life as well as engaging in volunteer activities. While engaging
in such activities there will be no time for drinking in your life you will
find peace as well as fulfillment in your life. This gives you a better
feeling.
Consider
continuing with the treatment program. In this case ensure that you are
engaging in a treatment program, which can be in hospital, outpatient on under
drug prescription. You may also have a sponsor or support group that fights
against alcoholism.
In
case you still have stress, consider dealing with it in ways that are healthy.
Don't misguide alcoholism as a way of stress management. You can meditate,
exercise, and find techniques for relaxation as well as engaging in breathing
exercises to manage your stress. With these steps you will now have started a
new lifestyle that is productive.
 










Chapter 24: Conclusion
As
can be seen above, alcoholism should not be taken lightly. Anyone can fall into
alcohol addiction, and it takes a lot of dedication and will power to get out
of an addiction. Some people may think alcohol is not very addictive and can
always exercise a certain degree of control over it. You can have a few drinks
every now and then and your life won't change. This is true, but for many
people one or two drinks can be a gateway to alcohol addiction.
Also,
we have now learned that one of the greatest dangers of alcohol addiction is
not knowing when you've been drinking too much or not realizing when you have a
drinking problem.
Therefore,
you can use the information in this book to help yourself, friends or loved
ones in general. If you suspect you may be living with or know someone with an
alcohol addiction, you can use the knowledge acquired here to learn the initial
signs in order to give you a base of helping them. Making them know or realize
they have an alcohol problem is a big step on your part. Or if you discover it
for yourself reading this book, then you can make a huge difference in your
life.

Facing
the new day with the hope of new life and more healthy living image from Flickr
by Michael Swan
 
From the author
Thank
you for purchasing this book.
 
I
really enjoyed writing it, and I've already had some great feedback from
readers who enjoyed the book. I hope you too enjoyed it.
 
I
appreciate that you chose to buy and read my book over some of the others out
there. Thank you for putting your confidence in me to help you. If you enjoyed
the book and you have a couple of spare minutes now, it would really help me
out if you would like to leave me a review (even if it's short) on Amazon. All
these reviews really help me spread the world about my books and encourage me
to write more books!
 
Sincerely
Yours,
Richard
Foreman
















