




Contents

Cover Page
Title Page
Copyright Page
Where Are The Lesson Files?
Contents
Getting Started

About Classroom in a Book
What's new in this edition
Prerequisites
Installing Adobe Photoshop Elements 2018
Accessing the Classroom in a Book Lesson Files
Creating a work folder
Creating an Adobe ID
Understanding the catalog file
Additional resources

1 A Quick Tour Of Photoshop Elements

How Photoshop Elements works
Importing media
Exploring the Organizer workspace
Reviewing and comparing images
The Editor workspace
Getting help and inspiration
Review questions
Review answers

2 Importing And Sorting Photos

Getting started
Getting photos
Sorting your photos
Automatically finding faces for tagging
Welcome to the People view
Sorting photos by location
Grouping photos as Events
Review questions
Review answers

3 Tagging, Grouping, And Searching Photos

Getting started
Making it easier to find your photos
Grouping photos
Filtering and finding photos
Review questions
Review answers

4 Image Editing Background & Basics

Getting started
Editing photos in the Organizer
Recognizing what your photo needs
Correcting photos in Quick Edit mode
Working in Guided Edit mode
Guided color correction
Resizing photos made easy
Working with Auto Smart Tone
Opening closed eyes
Selective editing with the Smart Brush
Working with camera raw images
Review questions
Review answers

5 Working With Color And Making Selections

Getting started
Correcting color problems
Working with red eye
Making selections
Changing the color of a pictured object
About printing color pictures
Review questions
Review answers

6 Fixing Lighting And Exposure Problems

Getting started
Adjusting images for tonal balance
Brightening an underexposed image
Correcting parts of an image selectively
Improving faded or overexposed images
Review questions
Review answers

7 Reframing, Retouching, And Recomposing Images

Getting started
Improving the composition of a photo
Working with the image canvas
Working with text
Recomposing an image within its frame
Removing wrinkles and spots
Removing unwanted objects from images
Creating effects with filters
Review questions
Review answers

8 Combining Images

Getting started
Combining images automatically
Using layers to combine photographs
Review questions
Review answers

9 Getting Creative

Getting started
On the arty side of the Editor
Producing a Photo Book
Creating a slide show
Creating a Facebook cover photo layout
Creative framing with layer masks
Making a photo look like a painting
Getting creative with text
Creating a type mask
Review questions
Review answers

10 Printing, Sharing, And Exporting

Getting started
About printing
Sharing photos and videos online
Backing up your catalog and media files
Review questions
Review answers

Index



i
ii
iii
iv
v
vi
vii
viii
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144
145
146
147
148
149
150
151
152
153
154
155
156
157
158
159
160
161
162
163
164
165
166
167
168
169
170
171
172
173
174
175
176
177
178
179
180
181
182
183
184
185
186
187
188
189
190
191
192
193
194
195
196
197
198
199
200
201
202
203
204
205
206
207
208
209
210
211
212
213
214
215
216
217
218
219
220
221
222
223
224
225
226
227
228
229
230
231
232
233
234
235
236
237
238
239
240
241
242
243
244
245
246
247
248
249
250
251
252
253
254
255
256
257
258
259
260
261
262
263
264
265
266
267
268
269
270
271
272
273
274
275
276
277
278
279
280
281
282
283
284
285
286
287
288
289
290
291
292
293
294
295
296
297
298
299
300
301
302
303
304
305
306
307
308
309
310
311
312

















Adobe Photoshop Elements 2018 Classroom in a Book®: The official training workbook from Adobe
      
John Evans & Katrin Straub








Adobe Photoshop Elements 2018 Classroom in a Book®
      
© 2018 Adobe. All rights reserved.
Adobe Press is an imprint of Pearson Education, Inc. For the latest on Adobe Press
         books, go to www.adobepress.com. To report errors, please send a note to errata@peachpit.com. For information regarding permissions, request forms and the appropriate contacts
         within the Pearson Education Global Rights & Permissions department, please visit
         www.pearsoned.com/permissions/.
      
If this guide is distributed with software that includes an end user license agreement,
         this guide, as well as the software described in it, is furnished under license and
         may be used or copied only in accordance with the terms of such license. Except as
         permitted by any such license, no part of this guide may be reproduced, stored in
         a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical,
         recording, or otherwise, without the prior written permission of Adobe Systems Incorporated.
         Please note that the content in this guide is protected under copyright law even if
         it is not distributed with software that includes an end user license agreement.
      
The content of this guide is furnished for informational use only, is subject to change
         without notice, and should not be construed as a commitment by Adobe Systems Incorporated.
         Adobe Systems Incorporated assumes no responsibility or liability for any errors or
         inaccuracies that may appear in the informational content contained in this guide.
      
Please remember that existing artwork or images that you may want to include in your
         project may be protected under copyright law. The unauthorized incorporation of such
         material into your new work could be a violation of the rights of the copyright owner.
         Please be sure to obtain any permission required from the copyright owner.
      
Any references to company names in sample files are for demonstration purposes only
         and are not intended to refer to any actual organization.
      
Adobe, the Adobe logo, Classroom in a Book, Creative Cloud, the Creative Cloud logo,
         Illustrator, InDesign, Photoshop, and Premiere are either registered trademarks or
         trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated in the United States and/or other countries.
         Adobe product screenshots reprinted with permission from Adobe Systems Incorporated.
      
Apple, Mac OS, macOS, Macintosh, iOS, iPad, iPhone, and QuickTime are trademarks of
         Apple, registered in the U.S. and other countries. Microsoft and Windows are either
         registered trademarks or trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the U.S. and/or other
         countries. Dropbox, Google Drive and all other trademarks are the property of their
         respective owners. Unless otherwise indicated herein, any third party trademarks that
         may appear in this work are the property of their respective owners and any references
         to third party trademarks, logos or other trade dress are for demonstrative or descriptive
         purposes only. Such references are not intended to imply any sponsorship, endorsement,
         authorization, or promotion of Pearson Education, Inc. products by the owners of such
         marks, or any relationship between the owner and Pearson Education, Inc., or its affiliates,
         authors, licensees or distributors.
      
Adobe Systems Incorporated, 345 Park Avenue, San Jose, California 95110-2704, USA
Notice to U.S. Government End Users. The Software and Documentation are "Commercial
         Items," as that term is defined at 48 C.F.R. §2.101, consisting of "Commercial Computer
         Software" and "Commercial Computer Software Documentation," as such terms are used
         in 48 C.F.R. §12.212 or 48 C.F.R. §227.7202, as applicable. Consistent with 48 C.F.R.
         §12.212 or 48 C.F.R. §§227.7202-1 through 227.7202-4, as applicable, the Commercial
         Computer Software and Commercial Computer Software Documentation are being licensed
         to U.S. Government end users (a) only as Commercial Items and (b) with only those
         rights as are granted to all other end users pursuant to the terms and conditions
         herein. Unpublished-rights reserved under the copyright laws of the United States.
         Adobe Systems Incorporated, 345 Park Avenue, San Jose, CA 95110-2704, USA. For U.S.
         Government End Users, Adobe agrees to comply with all applicable equal opportunity
         laws including, if appropriate, the provisions of Executive Order 11246, as amended,
         Section 402 of the Vietnam Era Veterans Readjustment Assistance Act of 1974 (38 USC
         4212), and Section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, and the regulations
         at 41 CFR Parts 60-1 through 60-60, 60-250, and 60-741. The affirmative action clause
         and regulations contained in the preceding sentence shall be incorporated by reference.
      
Cover Designer: Eddie Yuen. Interior Designer: Mimi Heft.
Printed and bound in the United States of America
ISBN-13: 	978-0-13-484435-0
ISBN-10: 	0-13-484435-1
9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1







Where are the Lesson FIles?
Purchase of this Classroom in a Book in any format gives you access to the lesson
         files you'll need to complete the exercises in the book.
      
You'll find the files you need on your Account page at peachpit.com on the Registered Products tab.
      
1 Go to www.peachpit.com/register.
      
2 Sign in or create a new account.
      
3 Enter the ISBN: 9780134844350.
      

4 Answer the questions as proof of purchase.
      
5 The lesson files can be accessed through the Registered Products tab on your Account
         page.
      


 Note
         
The files are compressed into ZIP archives to speed up download time and to protect
            the contents from damage during transfer. You must uncompress (or "unzip") the files
            to restore them to their original size and format before you use them with the book.
            Modern Mac and Windows systems are set up to open ZIP archives by simply double-clicking.
            Store the files in a work folder on your computer as instructed on page 3.
         


6 Click the Access Bonus Content link below the title of your product to proceed to
         the download page; then, click the lesson file links to download them to your computer.
      








Contents
Getting Started
1 A Quick Tour Of Photoshop Elements
How Photoshop Elements works
The library catalog file
Creating a catalog for working with this book
Importing media
Getting photos from files and folders
Exploring the Organizer workspace
Reviewing and comparing images
Viewing photos in Full Screen mode
Comparing photos side-by-side
Reconnecting missing files to a catalog
Switching between the Organizer and the Editor
The Editor workspace
Working with panels and the Panel Bin
Customizing the Panel Bin
Getting help and inspiration
Exploring eLive
Additional resources
2 Importing And Sorting Photos
Dragging photos into the Organizer
Automatic imports using watched folders
Importing images in bulk
Importing from a digital camera or mobile device
Sorting your photos
Automatically finding faces for tagging
Setting up People Recognition
Tagging faces in the Media Browser
Tagging undetected faces
Welcome to the People view
Navigating the People view
Tagging faces in the People view
Working with People groups
Importing Facebook friends as People tags
Sorting photos by location
Adding Places tags to photos from the Media view
Adding photos to a saved location from the Media view
A short trip to the Places view
Adding photos to a saved location from the Places view
Generating Places tags for photos with GPS data
Grouping photos as Events
Creating Events from the Media Browser
An invitation to the Events view
Adding photos to an Event
Getting smart about creating Events
Creating long Events
3 Tagging, Grouping, And Searching Photos
Making it easier to find your photos
Rating photos
Tagging photos with keywords
Organizing keyword tags and categories
Customizing the Keywords list
Creating and applying keyword tags
Grouping photos
Working with version sets
About stacks
Stacking photos automatically
Tips for working with stacks
Creating albums
Adding more photos to an album
Creating albums from People, Places, and Events
Filtering and finding photos
Finding people, places, and events
Looking for somebody?
Finding people from the Media view
Searching every place
Looking for the right occasion
Using the Timeline to refine a search
Setting up a multiple-criteria search
Letting Photoshop Elements curate your photos automatically
Saving complex searches
Finding photos by searching their metadata
Finding photos by visual similarity
Finding and removing duplicate photos
4 Image Editing Background & Basics
Editing photos in the Organizer
Recognizing what your photo needs
Adjusting levels
Assessing a photo's color balance
Working with the Temperature and Tint settings
Adjusting the white balance
Making easy color and lighting adjustments
Fixing photos automatically in batches
Adding the auto-corrected files to your catalog
Correcting photos in Quick Edit mode
Applying quick fixes
Adding quick effects, textures and frames
Turning a frown into a smile
Working in Guided Edit mode
Guided color correction
Resizing photos made easy
Working with Auto Smart Tone
Opening closed eyes
Selective editing with the Smart Brush
Tweaking Smart Brush adjustments
Working with camera raw images
Getting to know the Camera Raw window
Adjusting the white balance
Working with the Temperature and Tint settings
Using the tone controls on a raw image
Saving the image in the DNG format
5 Working With Color And Making Selections
Batch-processing the lesson files
Correcting color problems
Comparing methods of fixing color
Correcting color automatically
Adjusting the results of an automatic fix manually
Tweaking an automatic fix using Color Curves
Comparing results
Adjusting skin tones
Removing a color cast with one click
Working with red eye
Eye treatments for furry friends
Brightening a smile
Making selections
Using the Auto Selection tool
Using the Selection Brush
Using the Quick Selection tool
Working with saved selections
Selecting fine edge detail
Changing the color of a pictured object
Using the Color Replacement tool
Replacing a color throughout an image
Replacing a color in a limited area of an image
About printing color pictures
Working with color management
Setting up color management
6 Fixing Lighting And Exposure Problems
Batch-processing the lesson files
Adjusting images for tonal balance
Brightening an underexposed image
Applying Quick Fix lighting adjustments
Adjusting exposure in Guided Edit mode
Fixing exposure in Full Edit mode
Using blending modes
About adjustment layers
Using adjustment layers to correct lighting
Correcting parts of an image selectively
Creating a selection
Using layer masks to isolate parts of an image
Correcting underexposed areas
Adding more intensity
Improving faded or overexposed images
Creating a set of duplicate files
Using blending modes to fix a faded image
Adjusting shadows and highlights manually
Adjusting brightness and contrast manually
Adjusting levels
Comparing results
More guided lighting solutions
Removing haze and fog
7 Reframing, Retouching, And Recomposing Images
Improving the composition of a photo
Using the Straighten tool
Re-framing a photo with the Crop tool
Working with the image canvas
Adding a border to a photo
Working with text
Adding a quick border
Recomposing an image within its frame
Moving objects to enhance a composition
Changing the perspective in a photograph
Removing wrinkles and spots
Using the Healing Brush tool
Removing unwanted objects from images
Using the Content-Aware healing feature
Creative fun with Guided edits
Creating effects with filters
Using the Filter Gallery
Layering filters and effects
8 Combining Images
Combining images automatically
Merging photos into a panorama
Setting up Photomerge Panorama options
Creating a composite group shot
Removing unwelcome intruders
Blending differently exposed photos
Using the Photomerge Exposure tool
Using layers to combine photographs
Arranging the image layers
Creating a feathered layer mask
Matching the colors of blended images
Cleaning up selection edges
Combining layers in Guided edit mode
9 Getting Creative
Exploring the artwork library
Using the Favorites panel
Producing a Photo Book
Changing page layouts
Rearranging the order of images in a project
Working with backgrounds
Working with photos and frames
Adjusting a photo inside a frame
Refining your Photo Book layout using layers and effects
Reordering the pages in a Photo Book
Adding graphics to a project
Placing text in a layout
Creating a slide show
Creating a Facebook cover photo layout
Creative framing with layer masks
Making a photo look like a painting
Fitting text to a selection
Wrapping text around a shape
Using preset text styles
More fun with type
Creating a type mask
Adding impact to a type mask
10 Printing, Sharing, And Exporting
Printing a contact sheet
Printing a Picture Package
Printing individual photos
Sharing photos by email
Sharing photos and videos online
Exporting copies of your photos for the web
Backing up your catalog and media files
Backing up the catalog file
Doing incremental backups
Index







Getting Started
Adobe® Photoshop® Elements 2018 delivers image-editing tools that balance power and
         versatility with ease of use. Whether you're a home user or hobbyist, a professional
         photographer or a business user, Photoshop Elements 2018 makes it easy to produce
         good-looking pictures, share your stories in stylish, sophisticated creations for
         both print and web, and manage and safeguard your precious photos.
      
If you've used an earlier version of Photoshop Elements, you'll find that this Classroom
         in a Book® will teach you advanced skills and provide an introduction to the many
         new and improved features in this version. If you're new to Adobe Photoshop Elements,
         you'll learn the fundamental concepts and a range of techniques that will help you
         master the application.
      

About Classroom in a Book
Adobe Photoshop Elements 2018 Classroom in a Book is part of the official training series for Adobe graphics and publishing software,
            developed with the support of Adobe product experts. Each lesson is made up of a series
            of self-paced projects that will give you hands-on experience using Photoshop Elements
            2018.
         

See "Accessing the Classroom in a Book Lesson Files" on the next page for instructions
         on downloading the sample photographs and other resources used for the lessons in
         Adobe Photoshop Elements 2018 Classroom in a Book.
      

What's new in this edition
This edition covers many new and improved features in Adobe Photoshop Elements 2018,
            from the Auto Curate feature that makes it easier than ever to organize and find your
            photos by analyzing your library to present just the best images, to a revamped slide
            show and new tools that will help you make complex selections in moments, or improve
            a portrait by opening closed eyes.
         

New exercises explore enhancements in the Organizer, an improved selection workflow,
         and several of the latest guided edits.
      

Prerequisites
         
Before you begin the lessons in this book, make sure that you and your computer are
            ready by following the tips and instructions on the next few pages.
         


Requirements on your computer
You'll need about 900 MB of free space on your hard disk—around 400 MB for the lesson
            files and up to 550 MB for the work files that you'll create as you work through the
            exercises.
         


Required skills
The lessons in this book assume that you have a working knowledge of your computer
            and its operating system. Make sure that you know how to use the mouse, standard menus
            and commands, context menus, windows, and scroll bars.
         

If you need to review these basic and generic computer skills, see the documentation
         included with your Microsoft® Windows® or Apple® Mac® OS X software.
      

Installing Adobe Photoshop Elements 2018
Before you begin the Adobe Photoshop Elements 2018 Classroom in a Book lessons, make sure your system is set up correctly and you've installed the required
            software and hardware. You must purchase the Adobe Photoshop Elements 2018 software
            separately. For system requirements and instructions for downloading, installing,
            and setting up the software, refer to the topics listed under the header "Troubleshoot
            installation" at helpx.adobe.com/photoshop-elements.html.
         


Accessing the Classroom in a Book Lesson Files
To work through the projects in this book, you will first need to download the lesson
            files from peachpit.com. You can download the files for individual lessons or it may
            be possible to download them all in a single file.
         



 Note
         
The sample images are provided for your personal use with this book. You are not authorized
            to use these files commercially, or to publish or distribute them in any form with-out
            written permission from Adobe Systems, Inc. and the individual photographers or other
            copyright holders.
         


If you purchased an eBook from peachpit.com or adobepress.com, the files will automatically appear under the Registered Products tab on your Account
         page.
      
If you purchased an eBook from a different vendor or you bought a print book, you must register your purchase on peachpit.com in order to access the lesson files:
      
1 Go to www.peachpit.com/register.
      
2 Sign in or create a new account.
      
3 Enter ISBN: 9780134844350.
      
4 Answer the questions as proof of purchase.
      
5 The Lesson Files can be accessed through the Registered Products tab on your Account
         page. Click the Access Bonus Content link below the title of your product to proceed
         to the download page. Click the lesson file links to download them to your computer.
      
The files are compressed into Zip archives to speed up download time and to protect
         the contents from damage during transfer. You must decompress (or "unzip") the files
         to restore them to their original size and format before you use them with the book.
         Modern Mac and Windows systems are set up to open Zip archives by simply double-clicking.
      

Creating a work folder
Now you need to create a folder to hold your downloaded and unzipped Lesson Files,
            as well as the work files you'll save in the course of the lessons in this book.
         



 Note
         
In this book, the forward slash character ( / ) is used to separate equivalent terms
            and commands for Windows / macOS, in the order shown here.
         


1 Create a new folder named PSE2018CIB inside the username/My Documents (Windows) or username/Documents (macOS) folder on your computer.
      
2 If you downloaded the entire Lessons folder, drag the unzipped Lessons folder into
         the PSE2018CIB folder on your hard disk.
      
3 If you downloaded the work folder for an individual lesson, first create a folder
         named Lessons inside the PSE2018CIB folder; then, drag the unzipped individual lesson
         folder to your PSE2018CIB/Lessons folder.
      
Now, you can create a folder to store the finished files that you'll produce as you
         work through the exercises.
      
4 In Windows Explorer (Windows) / the Finder (macOS), open the Lessons folder inside
         the new PSE2018CIB folder on your hard disk.
      
5 Choose File > New > Folder (Windows) / File > New Folder (macOS). Type My CIB Work as the name for the new folder.
      


 Note
         
In this book, the forward arrow character (>) is used to denote submenus and commands
            found in the menu bar at the top of the workspace or in context and options menus;
            for example, Menu > Submenu > Command.
         


If you follow the instructions carefully as you work through each exercise in this
               book, you'll preserve the original lesson file that you downloaded by saving your
               work with a new file name. If you do accidentally overwrite the original lesson files,
               you can download fresh copies at any time from your peachpit.com account.

Creating an Adobe ID
         
When you install Adobe Photoshop Elements 2018 (macOS) or launch the program for the
            first time (Windows), you'll be asked to create an Adobe ID to register your product
            online. If you were offline and skipped this step, Photoshop Elements will prompt
            you at startup. You can take advantage of one of these opportunities, or register
            from the Photoshop Elements Editor by choosing Help > Sign In.
         

Creating an Adobe ID is free and only takes a minute. Your Adobe ID will streamline
         your customer support experience, making it easy to make new purchases or to retrieve
         a lost serial number.
      
With an Adobe ID, you'll also be able to log in to community forums and user groups
         and get access to free trial downloads, hundreds of free product extensions, members-only
         white papers and downloads, and more.
      

Understanding the catalog file
The catalog file is a central concept in understanding how Photoshop Elements works.
            Photoshop Elements doesn't actually "import" your images in the sense of transferring
            them from one place to another. For each image you import, Photoshop Elements simply
            creates a new entry in the catalog that is linked to the source file, wherever it
            is stored, but the image itself is not moved or copied.
         

All the work you put into organizing your photo library is recorded in the catalog
         file; it's updated whenever you tag, rate, or label a photo, or group images in an
         album.
      
As well as digital photographs, a catalog can include video and audio files, scans,
         PDF documents, and any presentations and layouts you might create in Photoshop Elements,
         such as slide shows, photo collages, and CD jacket designs.
      
The first time you launch Photoshop Elements, it creates a default catalog file (named
         My Catalog) on your hard disk. Although a single catalog can efficiently handle thousands
         of files, you can establish separate catalogs for different purposes if that's the
         way you prefer to work.
      
In the first lesson in this book, you'll create and load a dedicated catalog into
         which you'll import the sample images for the exercises, so that you can keep your
         lesson files separate from your own photo library.
      

Additional resources
         
Adobe Photoshop Elements 2018 Classroom in a Book is not intended to replace the documentation that comes with the program or to be
            a comprehensive reference for every feature. Only the commands and options used in
            the lessons are explained in this book. For comprehensive information about program
            features and tutorials, please refer to these resources:
         

Adobe Photoshop Elements 2018 Learn and Support Point your browser to helpx.adobe.com/photoshop-elements.html, where you can find
         hands-on tutorials, Help, answers to common questions, troubleshooting information
         and more.
      
Adobe Photoshop Elements 2018 product home page adobe.com/products/photoshop-elements
Photoshop Elements Forums forums.adobe.com/community/photoshop_elements lets you tap into peer-to-peer discussions as well as questions and answers on Adobe
         products.
      
Adobe TV tv.adobe.com is an online video resource for expert instruction and inspiration about Adobe products,
         including a How To channel to get you started with your product.
      
Resources for educators bothadobe.com/education and edex.adobe.com offer a treasure trove of information for instructors who teach classes on Adobe
         software. Find solutions for education at all levels, including free curricula that
         use an integrated approach to teaching Adobe software and can be used to prepare for
         the Adobe Certified Associate exams.
      
Free trial versions of Adobe Photoshop Elements 2018 and Adobe Premiere Elements 2018 The trial version of the software is fully functional and offers every feature of
         the product for you to test drive. To download your free trial version, go to www.adobe.com/downloads.html.
      







1. A Quick Tour of Photoshop Elements


Lesson overview
This lesson provides an overview of Photoshop Elements that will familiarize you with
            the basic components of the workspace while introducing many of the tools and procedures
            you'll use to import, manage, and edit your digital images.
         
The exercises in this lesson will step you through some of the skills and concepts
            basic to the Photoshop Elements workflow:
         
• Creating and loading catalogs
         
• Importing media
         
• Reconnecting missing files
         
• Reviewing and comparing photos
         
• Switching between the Organizer and the Editor
         
• Switching modes in the Editor
         
• Working with panels and the Panel Bin
         
• Customizing the workspace
         
• Using Photoshop Elements Help
         

You'll probably need between one and two hours to complete this lesson. If you haven't
            already done so, log in to your peachpit.com account to download the lesson files for this chapter, or follow the instructions
            under "Accessing the Classroom in a Book Lesson Files" in the Getting Started section
            at the beginning of this book.
         




Welcome to Adobe Photoshop Elements 2018! Take a quick tour and get to know the Photoshop
            Elements workspace—you'll find all the power and versatility you'd expect from a Photoshop
            application in an easy-to-use, modular interface that will help you keep your media
            files organized while you take your digital photography to a new level.
         



How Photoshop Elements works
         
Photoshop Elements has two primary workspaces: the Elements Organizer and the Editor.
            You can think of the Organizer as a library and browser for your photos and other
            media files, and the Editor as a digital darkroom and workshop where you can adjust
            and enhance your images and create presentations to showcase them.
         



 Note
         
Before you start this lesson, make sure that you've set up a folder for your lesson
            files and downloaded the Lesson 1 folder from your Account page at www.peachpit.com, as detailed in "Accessing the Classroom in a Book Lesson Files" and "Creating a
            work folder" in the "Getting Started" section at the beginning of this book.
         


1 Start Photoshop Elements.
      
By default, the Welcome screen opens whenever you start Photoshop Elements, serving
         as a convenient entry point to either of the workspace modules.
      
2 Click the Options button () at the upper right of the Welcome screen, and then click to open the On Start Always
         Launch menu.
      

If you change the default launch option, you can always access the Welcome screen
         from the Help menu. For now, you can leave the default setting unchanged.
      
3 Click Cancel, or click the Options button () again, to hide the options bar.
      
This tour—like the Photoshop Elements workflow—begins in the Organizer, where you
         can import, sort, group, search, and share your photos.
      
4 Click the Organizer button to launch the Elements Organizer module.
      



 Tip
         
If the Organizer opens to eLive mode, click Media in the mode picker bar across the
            top of the workspace.
         


5 If you see the Walkthrough screen with tips on using the Organizer, click Skip in the lower right corner to dismiss
         it. As with the Welcome screen, you can always access the Walkthrough screen from
         the Help menu. You may also need to dismiss (or respond to) an update notification.
      

The library catalog file
Behind the scenes, Photoshop Elements stores information about your images in a library
            catalog file, which enables you to conveniently manage all the media files on your
            computer without ever leaving the Organizer. Photoshop Elements doesn't actually "import"
            your images, in the sense of transferring them from one place to another, but instead
            simply registers them in the catalog. For each image you import Photoshop Elements
            creates a new catalog entry; a link to the original or source file, wherever it is stored, but the image itself is not moved or copied. All of the work
            you put into organizing your growing photo library is recorded in the catalog file;
            whenever you assign a tag or a rating to a photo, or group images in a stack or an
            album, the catalog is updated.
         

As well as digital photographs, a catalog can include video and audio files, scans,
         PDF documents, and any presentations and layouts you might create in Photoshop Elements,
         such as slide shows, photo collages, and CD jacket designs.
      

Creating a catalog for working with this book
The first time you launch Photoshop Elements, a default catalog file (named My Catalog)
            is automatically created on your hard disk. Although a single catalog can efficiently
            handle thousands of files, you can also establish separate catalogs for different
            purposes—if that's the way you prefer to work. In this exercise you'll create and
            load a dedicated catalog to handle the sample files used for the lessons in this book,
            making it easy to keep them separate from your own photos.
         



 Note
         
On macOS, you may see a slightly different set of location options from those shown
            in this illustration.
         


1 When the Organizer has opened, choose File > Manage Catalogs. In the Catalog Manager
         dialog box, click New. Don't change the location setting, which specifies who can
         access the catalog file and where it is stored.
      


2 Type CIB Catalog in the Enter A Name For The New Catalog dialog box. Disable the Import Free Music
         Into This Catalog option, if necessary, and then click OK.
      
3 If you see an animated walkthrough screen with tips on getting started, click Skip
         in the lower right corner to dismiss it for now. You can acess the walkthrough tips
         at any time by choosing Help > Show Walthrough Screens.
      



 Tip
         
You can launch the Catalog Manager without using the menu command by simply clicking
            the name of the current catalog in the lower right corner of the Organizer workspace.
         


Your new catalog­ is loaded in the Organizer. If you are ever unsure which catalog
         is currently loaded, you can always check the catalog name displayed in the lower
         right corner of the Organizer workspace.
      
Now that you have a catalog created specifically to manage the sample files that you'll
         use for the lessons in this book, you're ready to put some photos into it.
      

Importing media
         
Before you can view, organize, and share your photos and other media files in Photoshop
            Elements, you first need to import them into the Organizer in order to link them to
            your catalog.
         

You can bring photos into Photoshop Elements from a variety of sources and in a number
         of different ways.
      
1 Click the Import button, at the upper left of the Organizer workspace. The options
         in the Import menu vary slightly, depending on your operating system.
      


Import options on Windows



Import options on macOS

2 Click the Import button again to close the menu.
      

Getting photos from files and folders
If your image files are already on your computer hard disk—as is the case for the
            Classroom in a Book sample photos—you can either drag them directly into the Elements
            Organizer workspace from Windows Explorer or the macOS Finder, or import them from
            within Photoshop Elements using a menu command.
         

The import options that are listed in the Import button menu can also be accessed
         from the File menu.
      
1 Choose File > Get Photos And Videos > From Files And Folders.
      

2 Navigate to and open the Lessons folder inside your PSE2018CIB folder. Open the Lesson
         1 folder; then, click once to select the subfolder Import 1.
      
3 Make sure that the options Automatically Fix Red Eyes and Automatically Suggest Photo
         Stacks are disabled (see the illustration on the next page); then, click Get Media.
      

The Getting Media dialog box displays a progress bar as the photos are imported (though,
         if you have a fast computer, you may barely notice it).
      



 Note
         
You'll learn more about keyword tags in Lesson 3.


4 The Import Attached Keyword Tags dialog box appears, indicating that the photos you're
         importing have already been tagged with keywords. Check the box beside the Lesson
         01 tag in the Keyword Tags list to confirm it for import, and then click OK.
      

5 Thumbnails of the six imported photos appear in the Organizer's Media Browser pane.
         Choose View > Details. Note that each image's capture time is now displayed below
         its thumbnail, together with a blue tag badge indicating that the photo has attached
         keywords.
      
6 Repeat steps 1 through 4 for the folder Lessons \ Lesson 1 \ Import 2, but this time,
         choose From Files And Folders from the Import button menu.
      

Exploring the Organizer workspace
         
The Elements Organizer is an integral part of both Adobe Photoshop Elements and Adobe
            Premiere Elements video editing software. You can import, manage, and view both photos
            and video in the Elements Organizer, which serves as a hub, allowing seamless integration
            of the two editing applications.
         

In the Organizer, the main work area is the Media Browser pane. This is where you'll
         review, sort, organize, and search your photos and other media files. The bars just
         above the image thumbnails display information about the selection of photos currently
         displayed; in this case, the lower bar displays the date and time of the last import.
         If the Media Browser was showing the results of a catalog search, the lower bar would
         detail the search criteria shared by that selection of images.
      
1 To clear the Last Import filter and view all twelve photos in your catalog, click
         the Clear button at the right of the search results bar above the thumbnails.
      

The search results bar closes. The Last Import header changes to All Media, to show
         that the Media Browser is now displaying all of the files in your catalog. By default,
         the images are sorted by capture date, arranged from newest to oldest.
      
2 Choose Oldest from the Sort By menu at the left of the actions bar to reverse the
         order. Note that you can also sort your photos by name or import batch.
      



 Note
         
You'll learn more about the People, Places, and Events views, and explore a variety
            of ways to search the images in your photo library in Lessons 2 and 3.
         


Once you've spent a little time organizing your catalog by tagging your photos, you
         can use the view picker above the sorting bar to move between the People, Places,
         and Events views, quickly filtering the images in the Media Browser so that it displays
         only those photos that feature the faces, locations, or occasions that matter to you.
         The currently active view is the Media view, which is unfiltered.
      
You can use the Search button (located in the menu bar on Windows, or in the application
         window header on macOS) to conduct a search of all the images in your catalog, or
         just a subset, based on text, tags, dates, folders, albums, ratings, and file type—or
         combine filters to set up a complex multi-criteria search.
      

The left panel will list any albums that you create to group your photos, and also
         provides quick and easy access to all the files and source folders on your computer.
      
3 Click Folders at the top of the left panel. The default My Folders view lists only
         your managed folders: those folders that contain files you've already imported to your catalog.
      


 Tip
         
If the left panel is not wide enough to display the folder names in the tree hierarchy,
            move the pointer over the panel's right edge and drag to the right with the double-arrow
            cursor.
         


4 To see your folders in hierarchy view, click the menu icon () to the right of the My Folders header and choose View As Tree. You can expand folders
         in order to drill down in the hierarchy by clicking the boxes beside them. To expand
         the tree even further, right-click / Control-click the Lessons folder and choose Show
         All Subfolders from the context menu. You can now see all of the subfolders inside
         the Lessons folder, rather than just those that contain files already managed by your
         catalog.
      



 Note
         
You can identify a managed folder in the hierarchy by the photo folder icon (). Watched folders display a binoculars icon ().
         


In the Folders view, you can drag and drop files and folders to new locations on your
         hard disk, and create, rename, and delete folders on your computer without leaving
         the Organizer. The catalog file tracks all your work in the Folders view, making it
         easy to manage your media library from the ground up, and helping to avoid the hassle
         of locating and reconnecting missing files.
      
When you select a folder in the Folders view, that folder becomes the image source,
         rather than your entire catalog, so the Media Browser displays only the photos contained
         in the selected folder. Any filter or search—including the People, Places, and Events
         views—will be applied only to the images in the selected folder. The Media view will
         display the unfiltered contents of the selected folder.
      
5 Click the menu icon () at the upper right of the Folders list and choose View As List. Click between your
         two managed folders to see their contents isolated in turn in the Media Browser. Click
         All Media, at the left of the Sort By menu above the image thumbnails, to view all
         of the photos in your catalog.
      

The Taskbar across the bottom of the workspace presents an array of tools, giving
         you one-click access to some of the most common Organizer tasks.
      



 Note
         
The Instant Fix, Editor, and Slide Show buttons are covered later in this lesson.
            You'll learn how to use the Add Location and Add Event buttons in Lesson 2.
         


6 Toggle the button at the far left of the Taskbar to hide and show the left panel.
         The Undo / Redo and Rotate buttons are self-explanatory; click the arrow beside each
         of these tools to see the variant. Experiment with the full range of the Zoom slider
         to change the size of the image thumbnails. Leave the thumbnails set to a large enough
         size to see the blue keyword tag badges.
      
7 Select any thumbnail in the Media Browser; then, click the Keyword/Info button at
         the right of the Taskbar to open the right panel group. The Image Tags panel at the
         bottom shows that the selected image is tagged with the Lesson 01 keyword. Expand
         the Keywords list at the top of the Tags panel; then, expand the Imported Keyword
         Tags category to see the Lesson 01 tag nested inside.
      




 Tip
         
This illustration shows the Create and Share menus as they appear on Windows. You
            may see a slightly different set of options on macOS.
         


At the upper right of the Organizer workspace, above the right panel, are the Create
         and Share buttons.
      
8 Click the Create and Share buttons in turn and examine the options.
      
You can choose from the Create menu to begin a variety of photo projects to share
         and showcase your images, from personalized greeting cards to stylish photo books
         and slide shows.
      
The Share menu offers a range of ways to share your photos and videos with friends,
         family, and clients, or show them off to the world at large. Burn a DVD, publish to
         online sharing sites, attach your images to an e-mail, or export media as a PDF slide
         show.
      
9 Double-click any thumbnail in the grid, or select it and press Ctrl+Shift+S (on Windows)
         / Command+Shift+S (on macOS) to see the image enlarged. Use the arrow keys on your
         keyboard to cycle through the photos in the single image view. Double-click the enlarged
         image to return to the thumbnail grid view.
      


Reviewing and comparing images
         
Photoshop Elements provides several options for quickly and easily reviewing and comparing
            your photos in the Organizer. The Full Screen and Side By Side views let you examine
            images at any level of magnification—without the distraction of image windows, panels,
            and menus. In both of these views you can apply keywords, add photos to albums, and
            even perform a range of one-click editing tasks.
         


Viewing photos in Full Screen mode
You can use the Full Screen view to inspect and assess your photos in detail, or to
            effortlessly present a selection of images as an instant slide show.
         

1 Click to select a single thumbnail image in the Media Browser, and then choose View
         > Full Screen. Avoid moving the pointer for a few moments until the control bar and
         the Quick Edit and Quick Organize panels disappear.
      
2 Move the pointer over the full screen image to see the control bar again. Move the
         pointer over the gray tabs at the left of the screen to open the Quick Edit and Quick
         Organize panels. Move the pointer into the center of the screen; the control bar and
         panels disappear again after a few moments' inactivity.
      


 Tip
         
If you don't see the Film Strip, press Ctrl+F / Command+F on your keyboard, or click
            the Film Strip button in the Full Screen view's control bar.
         




The Film Strip below the main image shows all the photos from the Media Browser; if
            you had entered Full Screen mode with multiple images selected, the Film Strip would
            display only the selected photos.
         

3 Use the arrow keys on your keyboard, and then the Previous Media and Next Media buttons
         (flanking the triangular Play button at the left of the control bar), to move backwards
         and forwards through the images in the Film Strip.
      


 Note
         
The Slide Show button () in the standard Media view Taskbar launches a slide show with playback options as
            set in the Create mode's Slide Show Editor (see Lesson 9).
         


4 To view your images in a Full Screen view slide show, press the spacebar, or show
         the control bar by moving the pointer over the image, and then click the Play button.
         To stop the slide show, press the spacebar again, or click the Pause button in the
         control bar.
      


 Tip
         
If you choose either Pan and Zoom or 3D Pixelate transitions in the Theme dialog box,
            you'll need to press the Esc key on your keyboard to stop the slide show, rather than
            the spacebar or the Pause button in the control bar.
         


5 In the control bar, click the Theme and Settings buttons in turn to set a variety
         of options for the slide show and the Full Screen view. Choose a style for transitions
         between slides, select an audio file to replace the default sound track, and set the
         slide show to repeat. Play the slide show to see the effects of your settings.
      

6 Stop the slide show. Toggle the Film Strip, Fix, and Organize buttons to show and
         hide the Film Strip and the Quick Edit and Quick Organize panels.
      

Comparing photos side-by-side
The Side By Side viewing mode lets you keep one image fixed on one side of a split
            screen while you cycle through a selection of photos on the other—great for comparing
            composition and detail or for choosing the best of a series of similar shots.
         


1 Show the Film Strip, if necessary, and then click to select the first photo in the
         series. Click the View button in the control bar to see the alternative view options;
         then, choose the Side By Side view.
      
The photo you selected is displayed at the left of the screen, and the next photo
         in the series is shown on the right. By default, the image on the left—image #1—is
         active, as indicated by the blue border around the photo in the split-screen view.
         Any organizing or editing operation you perform will affect only the active image.
      

2 With the photo on the left—image #1—still active, click the first photo of the lighthouse
         in the Film Strip. The new selection becomes the new #1 image.
      
3 Press the Tab key to make image #2 (the photo on the right) the active image. Click
         the forward navigation (Next Media) button () in the control bar, or press the right arrow key on your keyboard, to cycle the
         #2 preview to the second lighthouse photo, while the image on the left remains fixed.
      
4 Click either image repeatedly to toggle between fit-to-view and 100% magnification.
         To compare detail at higher magnification, zoom in and out in the active image using
         the scroll-wheel on your mouse—or by pressing the Ctrl / Command key together with
         the plus (+) or minus (-) key. Drag the zoomed photo with the hand cursor to see a
         different portion of the image.
      


5 To synchronize panning and zooming between the two photos, click the lock icon to
         the right of the View button in the full screen view control bar.
      

6 Click the View button and select the second split-screen layout from the fly-out
         menu—the horizontally divided Above And Below view.
      
7 Click the Exit button () at the right of the control bar, or press the Esc key on your keyboard to close
         the split screen view and return to the Organizer.
      

Reconnecting missing files to a catalog
         
When you bring a photo into Photoshop Elements, the name and location of the file
            is recorded in the catalog. If you wish to move, rename, or delete a photo that is
            already in your catalog, it's best if you do it from within the Elements Organizer.
         

If you move, rename, or delete a file in the Windows Explorer / macOS Finder after
         it has been added to the catalog, Photoshop Elements searches your computer for the
         missing file automatically, and will usually do a great job finding it—even when the
         file has been renamed; however, you need to know what to do if the automatic search
         fails. If a file cannot be located, the missing file icon () appears in the upper left corner of its thumbnail in the Media Browser to alert
         you that the link between the file and your catalog has been broken.
      


 Tip
         
To avoid the problem of files missing from your catalog, use the Move and Rename commands
            from the File menu, and the Delete From Catalog command from the Edit menu to move,
            rename, or delete files from within Photoshop Elements, rather than doing so outside
            the application.
         


1 Switch to the Windows Explorer / macOS Finder by doing one of the following:
      
• On Windows, minimize the Elements Organizer by clicking the Minimize button () at the right of the menu bar, or simply click the Elements Organizer application
         button on the Windows taskbar.
      
• On macOS, click the Finder icon in the Dock, or hold down the Command key; then
         press and release the Tab key, repeatedly if necessary, to select the Finder icon
         in the Application Switcher.
      
2 Open an Explorer / Finder window, if there's not one already available. Navigate
         to and open your Lessons folder. Drag the Lesson 1 folder out of the Lessons folder
         to the Recycle Bin / Trash. Do not empty the Recycle Bin / Trash.
      

3 Switch back to the Organizer, and then choose File > Reconnect > All Missing Files.
         Photoshop displays a message to let you know it's busy searching for the missing files.
         We don't expect the files to be found in the Recycle Bin / Trash, so you can stop
         the automatic search by clicking the Browse button.
      
The Reconnect Missing Files dialog box opens—as it would have done, had the search
         run its course without Photoshop Elements locating the missing files.
      
4 For this exercise, you won't follow the re-linking process through to completion,
         but you should take this opportunity to inspect the dialog box thoroughly (see the illustration on the next page).
      
At the upper left of the Reconnect Missing Files dialog box is a list of all ­missing
         files. Below the list, a preview displays a thumbnail of the currently selected ­missing
         file. To the right, you can browse the contents of your computer.
      
When you select a candidate, you'll see a preview thumbnail below the Locate The Missing
         Files pane, opposite the missing file preview, enabling you to visually verify the
         photo as a match, even if its name has been changed.
      

5 Once you've verified a file or series of files to be reconnected, you can click the
         Reconnect button. For now, click Close to cancel the operation. Note that all of the
         thumbnails in the Media Browser now display the missing file icon ().
      
6 Switch back to the Explorer / Finder; then, drag the Lesson 1 folder out of the Recycle
         Bin / Trash and return it to your Lessons folder.
      


 Note
         
The missing file icons may persist until you next change the view or execute another
            command.
         


7 Switch back to the Organizer and choose File > Reconnect > All Missing Files. Photoshop
         briefly displays a message to let you know that there are no missing files to reconnect.
      

Switching between the Organizer and the Editor
Although the Instant Fix panel in the Organizer and the Quick Edit panel in the Full
            Screen view offer one-step tools for some of the most common editing tasks, you'll
            switch to the Editor for more sophisticated editing.
         

1 Select any two photos in the Media Browser.
      
2 To open the selected images in the Editor, either choose Edit > Edit With Photoshop
         Elements Editor, or click the Editor button () in the Taskbar.
      


 Tip
         
Alternatively, right-click / Control-click either of the selected images, and choose
            Edit With Photoshop Elements Editor from the context menu.
         



You can switch back to the Organizer from the Editor just as easily, by clicking the
         Organizer button () in the Taskbar at the bottom of the Editor workspace.
      

The Editor workspace
         
The Editor provides a comprehensive, yet intuitive editing environment, with a choice
            of editing modes to satisfy users of any level of expertise, and a flexible workspace
            that can be customized to suit the way you prefer to work.
         

1 If your workspace arrangement differs from the illustration below, click the word
         Expert in the mode picker at the top of the workspace, and then choose Window > Reset
         Panels. If you don't see the photo thumbnails below the main image, click the Photo
         Bin button in the lower left corner of the Editor window.
      

The central work area in the Editor is the Edit pane, where you'll adjust and enhance
         your images, and preview the projects and presentations that you create to showcase
         them.
      

2 In the edit mode picker immediately above the Edit pane, click Quick to enter Quick
         Edit mode. Note the simplified tool bar at the left. The right panel presents easy-to-use
         controls for six common image editing operations; click the small arrow beside each
         of the Quick Edit options in turn to expand and collapse the controls.
      
3 Click Guided in the edit mode picker above the Edit pane to switch to Guided Edit
         mode. The work area now shows an interactive preview for each guided edit offered.
         Hover the pointer back and forth over a preview to see before and after views for
         that procedure.
      



 Tip
         
If you're new to digital imaging, the Guided edit mode is a great place to start;
            you can learn new tricks and techniques as you're stepped through each editing procedure.
         


4 In the bar below the mode picker, click each category in turn to see the range of
         guided edits available. Click to launch a procedure from the Basics category, noting
         the tools and tips in the right panel. Click Cancel at the lower right, and then repeat
         the process for two or three edits from each of the first three groups.
      
5 Click Expert in the edit mode picker to switch back to the Expert mode.
      
6 Below the Edit pane is the Photo Bin, which provides easy access to the images you're
         working with, no matter how many files you have open. Double-click each of the thumbnails
         in the Photo Bin in turn to bring that photo to the front in the Edit pane and make
         it the active image.
      
7 Choose Preferences > General from the Edit / Adobe Photoshop Elements Editor menu.
         On the General tab of the Preferences dialog box, click the check box to activate
         the option Allow Floating Documents In Expert Mode; then, click OK.
      


 Note
         
Once you've activated the option to allow floating document windows, this becomes
            the default for any image opened in Expert Edit mode. Throughout the rest of this
            book however, it will be assumed that you are working with tabbed image windows docked
            (consolidated) in the Edit pane, unless otherwise specified. Before you complete this
            exercise you'll disable floating document windows so that it'll be easier for you
            to follow the exercises as written.
         


8 Drag whichever image is foremost by its name tab, away from its docked position to
         float above the Editor workspace.
      

9 Explore the options for arranging image windows that are available from the Window
         > Images menu, and from the menu on the Layout button () in the Taskbar at the bottom of the Editor workspace. You may wish to go back to
         the Organizer and open more files to develop a feel for the way you prefer to work
         with your image windows.
      
10 When you're done, choose Preferences > General from the Edit / Adobe Photoshop Elements
         Editor menu and disable floating documents in expert mode; then, click OK to close
         the Preferences dialog box.
      
The Edit mode tool bar includes tools for making precise selections, fixing image
         imperfections, drawing, painting, adding text, and creating special effects, conveniently
         grouped by function. You can hide and show the tool bar to free up screen space as
         you work by choosing Tools from the Window menu.
      
11 Click the Tool Options button in the Taskbar at the bottom of the Editor work-space
         to hide the Photo Bin and show the Tool Options pane in its place. In the tool bar
         at the left of the workspace, click to activate several of the tools in turn, noting
         the settings and controls available for each in the Tool Options pane.
      

12 Click the Photo Bin button at the left of the Taskbar to show the Photo Bin.
      

Working with panels and the Panel Bin
To the right of the Edit pane is the Panel Bin. In its default Basic mode, the Panel
            Bin displays one panel at a time.
         


1 Use the buttons in the Taskbar below the Panel Bin to switch the Panel Bin between
         the Layers, Effects, Filters, Styles, and Graphics panels. The illustration at the
         right shows the Artistic category in the Filters panel.
      
2 Click the More button (not the triangle beside it) at the far right of the Taskbar.
         The rest of the Editor panels appear in a tabbed group floating 'above' the workspace.
         Click the More button again to hide the floating panels; then, click the small triangle
         beside the More button and choose the Histogram from the menu. The floating panels
         group appears once more: this time, with the Histogram panel foremost.
      
You can also show and hide the floating panels by choosing any panel other than the
         Layers, Effects, Graphics, and Favorites panels from the Window menu.
      
3 Drag the Histogram panel out of the tabbed panel group by its name tab, and then
         drag the Navigator panel onto the tab bar of the Histogram panel, releasing the mouse
         button when the Histogram's tab bar is highlighted in blue.
      

4 To close the Color Swatches panel, drag it free of the original group and click the
         close button (x) in its header bar (at the right on Windows, at the left for macOS),
         or click the small menu icon to the right of the name tab and choose Close from the
         Options menu. Collapse the grouped Info, Favorites, History, and Actions panels by
         double-clicking the name tab of any panel in the group.
      
5 To dock the two floating panel groups, drag the collapsed group onto the lower edge
         of the Histogram / Navigator group and release the mouse button when you see a blue
         line highlighting the connection between the two groups. To expand the lower group,
         click the name tab of any of the collapsed panels.
      


 Tip
         
Single floating panels can also be grouped by docking them one above the other in
            this manner.
         





 Note
         
Photoshop Elements remembers which panels you have dismissed, and the way you've grouped
            those that you use most often; your arrangement will persist until you use the Reset
            Panels command or switch between Basic and Custom modes.
         


6 To separate the two tabbed panel groups again, drag the lower group away by its tab
         bar (not by any of the three name tabs).
      

Customizing the Panel Bin
         
If you're a dedicated user of the Expert editing mode, you may prefer to switch the
            workspace from Basic to Custom mode. The most important difference between the two
            working modes is that in Custom mode the Panel Bin can store and display more than
            one panel at a time—so you can dock your favorite floating panels in the Panel Bin,
            keeping them clear of the work area and ready at your fingertips without the need
            to use menu commands. You can group and arrange the panels you use most often in the
            Custom mode Panel Bin just as you did with floating panels in Basic mode. Panels left
            floating behave in the same way they do in Basic mode.
         

1 Click the small arrow beside the More button at the far right of the Taskbar and
         choose Custom Workspace from the pop-up menu.
      

In Custom mode, the Layers, Effects, Filters, Styles, and Graphics buttons disappear
         from the Taskbar below the Panel Bin. The panels accessed by those buttons in the
         Basic mode—the Layers, Effects, Filters, Styles, and Graphics panels—are now docked
         in the Panel Bin by default; accessible by clicking their name tabs at the top of
         the Panel Bin. Other panels can be opened from the Window menu or from the menu on
         the More button at the far right of the Taskbar.
      

2 Click the More button at the far right of the Taskbar. Drag the floating panel group
         to the bottom edge of whichever panel is currently foremost in the Panel Bin and release
         the mouse button when you see a blue line indicating the new position.
      
3 Drag the Info and Color Swatches panels out of the lower panel group by their name
         tabs, and then close each of them by clicking the close button (x) in the header bar.
      
4 Choose File > Close All to close both of the open images. Bring the Editor window
         back to the front; then, close it by clicking the Close button (in the top right corner
         of the workspace on Windows, at the upper left on macOS).
      

Getting help and inspiration
         
Help is available in several ways, each one useful in different circumstances:

Help in the application The complete user documentation for Adobe Photoshop Elements is available from the
         Help menu, in the form of HTML content that displays in your default browser. This
         documentation provides quick access to information on using the various features in
         Photoshop Elements.
      
Depending on which module you're working in, choose Elements Organizer Help or Photoshop
         Elements Help from the Help menu, or simply press the F1 key.
      

The Help menu also offers links to online community forums, video tutorials, and product
         support. If you're new to digital photography and image editing, choose Help > Key
         Concepts for explanations of basic terms and tasks, presented as an easy to understand
         visual dictionary. Click any thumbnail for an illustrated definition of a key concept
         and links to online Help with step-by-step instructions.
      



 Note
         
Help manuals are also available as PDF documents; look for the "Help manual (PDF)"
            links at the bottom of the Elements Organizer Help and Photoshop Elements Help pages
            listed here.
         


Help on the Web Even without using the Help menu, you can access up-to-date documentation and community
         discussions via your default browser. Point your browser to helpx.adobe.com/elements-organizer/using/topics.html
         (Organizer) or helpx.adobe.com/photoshop-elements.html (Editor).
      
Links in the application Within the Photoshop Elements application there are links to additional help topics,
         such as the hot-linked tips associated with specific panels and tasks. Look for the
         question mark icons.
      

Exploring eLive
Elements Live (eLive) view gives you access to useful and inspirational content and
            resources and lets you connect with the community of Photoshop Elements users, right
            from within the Photoshop Elements Editor and Organizer.
         

The eLive view offers Learn, Inspire, and News channels, with links to a wide range
         of Help pages, videos, tips, tricks, tutorials, troubleshooting articles, and more.
      
You can switch to the eLive view at any time as you work by clicking the link in the
         Mode picker bar at the top of the Organizer and Editor workspaces; the red counter
         lets you know that new items have been added since your last visit.
      

Choose from the menu at the left of the eLive screen to browse all the available content
         on one page, or see items categorized in separate Inspire, Learn, and News channels.
      

Click the magnifying glass icon to search eLive for content drawn from Photoshop Elements
         Help, user community forums, online articles, and more; eLive makes it easy with a
         natural language search engine, so that you'll find the help you need, even when you're
         unsure of the correct terminology.
      
Try typing the word trim in the Search box; eLive offers nine topics, including 'Trim Tool," "Trim A Photo,"
         "Trim To A Selection Boundary" and "The Trim Image Guided Edit". Choosing any of these
         search topics returns a choice of articles and tutorials dealing with the Crop Tool
         and various procedures for cropping photos.
      

Additional resources
Adobe Photoshop Elements 2018 Classroom in a Book is not meant to replace the documentation that comes with the program, nor to be
            a comprehensive reference for every feature. Additional resources are listed in detail
            at the end of the "Getting Started" chapter in this book; please refer to these resources
            for comprehensive information and tutorials about program features.
         

You've reached the end of the first lesson. Now that you know how to import images,
         understand the concept of the catalog, and are familiar with the essentials of the
         Photoshop Elements interface, you're ready to start organizing and editing your photos
         in the next lessons.
      
Before you move on, take a few moments to read through the review questions and answers
         on the next page.
      


Review questions
1 What are the primary workspaces and working modes in Adobe Photoshop Elements?
            


2 What is a catalog file?
      
3 What are keyword tags?
      
4 How can you select multiple thumbnail images in the Media Browser?
      


Review answers
1 Photoshop Elements has two primary workspaces: the Elements Organizer and the Editor.
               You'll work in the Organizer to locate, import, manage, and share your photos, and
               use the Editor to adjust your images and to create presentations to showcase them.
               The Editor offers three editing modes: Quick edit, Guided edit, and Expert mode. Both
               the Organizer and the Editor provide access to the Create and Share modes.
            


2 A catalog file is where Photoshop Elements stores information about your images,
         enabling you to conveniently manage the photos on your computer from within the Organizer.
         For each image you import, Photoshop Elements creates a new entry in the catalog file.
         Whenever you assign a tag or a rating to a photo, or group images in an album, the
         catalog file is updated. All your work in the Organizer is recorded in the catalog
         file.
      
As well as digital photographs, a catalog can include video and audio files, scans,
         PDF documents, and any presentations and layouts you might create in Photoshop Elements,
         such as slide shows, photo collages, and CD jacket designs. A single catalog can efficiently
         handle thousands of files, but you can also create separate catalogs for different
         types of work.
      
3 Keyword tags are labels with personalized associations that you attach to photos,
         creations, and video or audio clips in the Media Browser so that you can easily organize
         and find them.
      
4 To select images that are in consecutive order in the Media Browser, click the first
         photo in the series, and then hold down the Shift key and click the last. All the
         photos in the range that you Shift-clicked will be selected. To select multiple non-consecutive
         files, hold down the Ctrl / Command key as you add files to the selection.
      







2. Importing and Sorting Photos


Lesson overview
As your photo library grows, it becomes increasingly important that you have effective
            ways to organize and manage your pictures on your computer so that those valuable
            ­memories are always accessible. Adobe Photoshop Elements makes it easy to import
            photos from a variety of sources and provides powerful tools for organizing and searching
            your collection, including the People, Places, and Events views, where you can intuitively
            sort and search your images for the faces, locations, and happenings that mean the
            most to you.
         
This lesson will get you started with the essential skills you'll need to import images
            and keep track of your expanding image collection:
         
• Importing images from folders on your computer
         
• Importing photos from a digital camera
         
• Navigating the Media view
         
• Tagging faces and sorting photos in the People view
         
• Sorting photos by location in the Places view
         
• Grouping photos of special occasions in the Events view
         

You'll probably need between one and two hours to complete this lesson. If you haven't
            already done so, log in to your peachpit.com account to download the combined lesson files for Lessons 2 and 3, or follow the
            instructions under "Accessing the Classroom in a Book Lesson Files" in the Getting
            Started section at the beginning of this book.
         



Import photos to your catalog, and then explore the People, Places, and Events views.
            You'll discover the many ways the Organizer can help you to manage your image library
            so that you can always find exactly the photo you want, exactly when you want it—no matter how big your catalog, or across how many folders your media
            files are scattered.
         


Getting started
         
In this lesson you'll be working in the Elements Organizer, where you'll learn a variety
            of ways to import media into your catalog and begin to sort your image library.
         



 Note
         
Before you start this lesson, make sure that you've set up a folder for your lesson
            files and downloaded the Lesson 2-3 folder from your Account page at www.peachpit.com, as detailed in "Accessing the Classroom in a Book Lesson Files" and "Creating a
            work folder" in the "Getting Started" section at the beginning of this book. You should
            also have created a new catalog (see "Creating a catalog for working with this book" in Lesson 1). You need to have completed Lesson 1 to follow the exercises in this
            lesson as written.
         


1 If Photoshop Elements is still running from the previous exercise, switch to the
         Organizer now—if not, start Photoshop Elements, and then click the Organizer button
         to launch the Elements Organizer module.
      

2 Check the name of the current catalog, which is displayed in the lower right corner
         of the Organizer workspace. On Windows, you can also see the catalog name displayed
         in a tooltip that appears when you hold the pointer over the Elements Organizer icon
         at the upper left of the Organizer window.
      
3 If the CIB Catalog that you created in Lesson 1 is not currently loaded, choose File
         > Manage Catalogs. Select the CIB Catalog from the list in the Catalog Manager dialog
         box, and then click Open.
      
4 If you don't see the CIB Catalog listed in the Catalog Manager, refer to the section
         "Creating a catalog for working with this book" in Lesson 1.
      

Getting photos
Before you process, print, or share your ­photos, the first step is to bring them
            into your catalog via the Elements Organizer. The Organizer provides a convenient,
            centralized workspace where you can browse, sort and manage all the images in your
            library, no matter where the files are stored on your computer.
         

In the following exercises you'll import the images for this lesson into your new
         catalog using a variety of different methods.
      
Perhaps the most direct and intuitive way to bring media files into the Organizer
         and add them to your catalog is to use the familiar drag-and-drop technique.
      

Dragging photos into the Organizer
1 Use the Windows Taskbar, or the macOS Dock, to switch to the Windows Explorer / macOS
            Finder. Open a new Explorer / Finder window. If necessary, move the Explorer / Finder
            window enough to see the Elements Organizer workspace behind it.
         

2 In the Explorer / Finder window, locate and open the PSE2018CIB \ Lessons folder
         on your hard disk, and then open the downloaded subfolder named Lesson 2-3.
      
3 Inside the Lesson 2-3 folder you'll find three sub-folders: drag the Import 3 subfolder
         onto the Media Browser pane and release the mouse button.
      

4 Click the Organizer workspace to bring it back to the front.
      
Photoshop Elements briefly displays a dialog box while searching inside the Import
         3 folder for files to import; then, the Import Attached Keyword Tags dialog box opens.
      

Importing attached keyword tags
Whenever you import photos that have already been tagged with keywords, the Import
            Attached Keyword Tags dialog box will appear, giving you the opportunity to specify
            which tags you wish to import with your images.
         

1 In the Import Attached Keyword Tags dialog box, check the Lesson 02-03 box or click
         Select All; then, click OK.
      

The Getting Media dialog box displays a progress bar as the Organizer imports the
         keywords. The Media Browser now shows only the newly imported images.
      


 Tip
         
If you still don't see the blue badges on the thumbnails in the Media Browser after
            activating View > Details, use the Thumbnail Size slider above the Media Browser to
            increase the size of the thumbnails.
         


2 Make sure that the Details option is checked as activated in the View menu. Each
         thumbnail in the Media Browser is marked with a blue tag badge indicating that it
         has keywords attached.
      

3 If necessary, click the Keyword/Info button at the right of the Taskbar below the
         Media Browser to open the Tags, Information, and Image Tags panels. In the Tags panel,
         click the triangle beside the Imported Keyword Tags category to expand it and see
         the newly imported Lesson 02-03 tag nested inside, together with the keyword that
         you imported in the previous lesson.
      
4 Click the Back button at the upper left of the Media Browser, or the Clear button
         at the right, to display all the media in your catalog in the Media Browser.
      


Automatically fixing red eyes during import
The term "red eye" refers to a phenomenon common in flash photography, where the retinas
            at the back of the subject's eyes reflect the light of the flash, so that the pupils
            appear red instead of black. In most cases, Photoshop Elements can fix the problem
            automatically during the import process, saving you the effort of further editing­.
            This can be a substantial advantage when you're importing large numbers of images
            shot indoors or at night, such as photos from social occasions.
         

You'll import the photo for this exercise with the From Files And Folders menu command,
         as you did for the images in Lesson 1.
      

1 Click the Import button at the upper left of the Organizer workspace and choose From
         Files And Folders from the menu. Alternatively, choose File > Get Photos And Videos
         > From Files And Folders.
      
2 Navigate to and open the PSE2018CIB / Lessons / Lesson 2-3 folder. Open the subfolder
         Import 4; then, single-click the file Red_Eyes.jpg to select it.
      
3 Click the check box to activate the Automatically Fix Red Eyes option. Make sure
         that the Automatically Suggest Photo Stacks option is disabled; then, click Get Media.
      

4 In the Import Attached Keyword Tags dialog box, click Select All; then, click OK.
      
5 The newly imported image appears in the Media Browser. If you don't see the name
         of the image file below the thumbnail, choose View > File Names.
      
The corrected photo has been stacked on top of the original in a Version Set. You can identify a Version Set by the badge in the upper right corner of the thumbnail,
         and also by the extension to the file name, which shows that the image has been edited.
         You'll learn more about working with Version Sets in Lesson 3.
      


 Tip
         
For some images, the automatic red eye fix may not be so effective; more tools and
            techniques for correcting the effect are discussed in Lesson 5.
         


6 Click the arrow at the right of the thumbnail once to expand the Version Set, and
         then again to collapse it.
      


Automatic imports using watched folders
         
You can use watched folders to simplify and automate the process of keeping your catalog
            up to date. Designate any folder on your hard disk as a watched folder and Photoshop
            Elements will automatically be alerted when a new file is placed in—or saved to—that
            folder. By default, the My Pictures folder (Windows) or Pictures folder (macOS) is
            watched, but you can set up any number of additional watched folders.
         

You can either choose to have new files that are detected in a watched folder added
         to your catalog automatically, or have Photoshop Elements ask you what to do before
         importing the new media. If you choose the latter option, the message "New files have
         been found in your Watched Folders" will appear whenever new items are detected. Click
         Import to add the files to your catalog or click Cancel to skip them.
      
In this exercise you'll add a folder to the watched folders list.
1 Choose File > Watch Folders.
      
2 In the Watch Folders dialog, activate the Watch Folders And Their Sub-Folders For
         New Files option. Under Folders To Watch, click Add; then, navigate to and select
         your Lesson 2-3 folder and click OK.
      

The Lesson 2-3 folder now appears in the Folders To Watch list. To stop a folder from
         being watched, select it in the list, and then click Remove.
      
3 Ensure that the Notify Me option is activated, and then click OK to dismiss the Watch
         Folders dialog box.
      
Whenever a media file is placed in, or saved to, your Lesson 2-3 folder or any of
         its subfolders, the Watched Folders dialog will appear, giving you the opportunity
         to import the file or exclude it. Depending on when and how the new media is added,
         the notification may not appear until the next time you launch the Organizer.
      

If you use online services such as Dropbox, One Drive, or Google Drive to sync your
         photos from mobile devices, Elements Organizer automatically detects the cloud-based
         storage folders on your desktop and marks them as Watched folders.
      

Importing images in bulk
The bulk import feature, enhanced for Photoshop Elements 2018, has a very intuitive
            interface that lets you browse the images in any folder on your computer, and include
            the files from as many folders as you wish in a single import—even though the source
            folders may be scattered across many locations. You can add entire folders to your
            bulk import, or exclude one subfolder while including another.
         

1 Click the Import button at the upper left and choose In Bulk from the menu. Alternatively,
         choose Get Photos And Videos > In Bulk from the File menu.
      
The Import Media dialog opens, with your watched folders listed in the pane on the
         left. The My Pictures / Pictures folder is selected by default; the preview pane shows
         thumbnails of the images in your Pictures folder as well as those stored in the subfolders
         nested inside it—all selected for import.
      
2 Click the listing for your Lesson 2-3 folder; then, scroll the import preview pane
         to see the images in the subfolders that are nested inside the Lesson 2-3 folder.
      

You can add folders to your bulk import by clicking the Add Folder button at the lower
         left. Remove a selected folder from the list by clicking the Remove button. Any new
         folder added to the bulk import will be marked as a Watched folder by default; to
         disable the Watched status for a folder that's included in your bulk import, click
         to de-activate the adjacent Watched Folder marker ().
      
3 Click the last image in the Import 4 folder's preview selection (marked 31>) to see
         the rest of the images inside that folder; then, collapse the expanded subfolder by
         clicking Back at the upper left of the preview pane.
      
4 In the import preview pane, click the Import 3 subfolder to deselect it; this folder
         is already managed by your catalog. Leave the Import 4 folder selected, but deselect
         the Aquarium, Birds, Bison, Elephant, Giraffe, Monkey, and Siamang subfolders to exclude
         them from this import.
      
5 In the folders list pane at the left of the dialog, deselect your Pictures folder
         to exclude its contents from this import. Check that the header above the preview
         pane indicates that a single subfolder is selected for import; then, click Import
         at the lower right.
      

6 In the Import Attached Keyword Tags dialog box, activate the check box to confirm
         the Lesson 02-03 tag for import, and then click OK.
      
7 When the import process is complete, Photoshop Elements displays a message to let
         you know that two of the files in the Import 4 folder (the red eyes photo and its
         edited copy) were already in the catalog, and were therefore not imported. Each file
         that was not imported is listed, together with the reason it was excluded. Click OK.
      

Importing from a digital camera or mobile device
         
If you have a digital camera, a memory card, or a mobile device at hand, you can step
            through this exercise using your own photos. Alternatively, you can follow the process
            by reading through the steps and referring to the illustrations in the book, and then
            return to work through this set of exercises when you are prepared.
         

1 Connect your digital camera, card reader, or mobile device to your computer. If you're
         working on macOS, skip to step 3.
      



 Tip
         
You can set AutoPlay to import to Elements Organizer by default. The AutoPlay dialog
            box will no longer appear when you connect your camera, but you can access the settings
            at any time on the Hardware And Sound pane in the Windows Control Panel.
         


2 On Windows, the Auto Play dialog box may appear. You could choose the option Organize
         And Edit Using Adobe Elements Organizer 2018 (and even specify this as the default
         action when you connect a camera), but for the purposes of this lesson, simply click
         the Close button to dismiss the dialog. If the Photo Downloader dialog box appears
         automatically, you can skip to step 4; otherwise, continue to step 3.
      
3 Click the Import button at the upper left of the Organizer workspace and choose From
         Camera Or Card Reader.
      



 Tip
         
On Windows, you can activate the Automatic Download option to have the Photo Downloader
            download your photos automatically whenever a camera or card reader is connected to
            your computer, using the default settings from your Elements Organizer Preferences.
         


4 In the Photo Downloader dialog box, choose the name of your connected camera or mobile
         device from the Get Photos From menu.
      
5 Accept the default target folder listed beside Location, or click Browse / Choose
         to designate a different destination for the imported files.
      
6 From the Create Subfolder(s) menu, choose Today's Date (yyyy mm dd) as the folder
         name format; the Location path reflects your choice.
      
7 Make sure that the Rename Files menu is set to Do Not Rename Files, and the Delete
         Options menu is set to After Copying, Do Not Delete Originals. If you're working on
         Windows, deactivate the Automatic Download option.
      
8 Click Get Media.
      
That's all there is to it!
With these basic Photo Downloader settings, the photos will be copied from your camera
         to a folder named with today's date, inside your default Pictures folder. Your photos
         will retain their camera-generated file names.
      

Advanced Photo Downloader options
         
In this exercise you'll explore some advanced options for importing photos from your
            camera or mobile device that will help to keep your growing image library organized.
            You can set up your camera import so that Photoshop Elements will automatically apply
            tags and create groups during the import process, which means that your images will
            already be organized by the time they arrive in your catalog!
         



 Tip
         
To get the best results from this exercise, your import should include several batches
            of pictures taken at different times on the same day.
         


If you have a digital camera, a memory card, or a mobile device at hand with your
         own photos, you can step through this first exercise using those images; otherwise,
         simply read through the process and refer to the illustrations in the book, and then
         return to this exercise when you are prepared.
      
1 Repeat steps 1 through 5 from the exercise on the previous page to open the Photo
         Downloader, specify your camera as the import source, and accept the default destination
         for the downloaded files.
      
2 Without making any other changes to the settings, click the Advanced Dialog button
         in the lower left corner of the dialog box.
      
In advanced mode, the Photo Downloader Dialog displays thumbnail previews of all the
         photos on your camera or mobile device, and also offers options for processing, tagging,
         and grouping your images during the import process.
      

You can exclude a photo from the selection to be imported from your camera or device
         by clicking the check box below its thumbnail to remove the check mark.
      
In the next steps you'll set up the automatic creation of subfolders for the files
         copied from your camera and apply keyword tags to the images as they are imported.
      
3 Under Save Options, choose Custom Groups (Advanced) from the Create Subfolder(s)
         menu. Your selection is reflected in the Location pathname.
      

The images have been automatically divided into groups, based on capture time and
         date. A slider below the Create Subfolder(s) menu enables you to adjust the subdivision
         and the box to the right of the slider shows the resulting number of groups. In our
         example, the automatic capture time grouping has produced six groups.
      
4 Experiment by moving the slider to the left to generate fewer groups (sub-folders)
         or to the right to generate more. Scroll down the list of thumbnails to review the
         effect of the slider on the grouping of your photos. Note that the number of groups
         created is displayed in the box to the right of the slider.
      


5 Next you'll specify custom names for the subfolders that will be automatically created
         to separate your grouped photos. From the options in the Group Name menu, choose Shot
         Date (yyyy mm dd) + Custom Name.
      
6 Click the Custom Name field at the right of the separator bar above each group in
         turn and type a descriptive name in the text box. In our example, we used the animal
         names Giraffe, Elephant, Monkey, and so on.
      

7 Under Advanced Options, activate the option Import Into Album by clicking the check
         box, and then click the adjacent Settings button. In the Select An Album dialog box,
         click the green plus sign icon, and then type a name for the new album. For now, you
         can click Cancel; you'll learn about creating and working with albums in Lesson 3.
      

8 Click Get Media. The photos are copied to your hard disk, organized in subfolders
         named for your custom import groups. If the Files Successfully Copied dialog box appears,
         click Yes.
      


 Tip
         
The more you take advantage of these advanced options when importing your photos,
            the less time and effort you'll need to spend sorting and organizing images, and looking
            for the photos you want.
         


The Getting Media dialog box appears briefly while the photos are being imported into
         your catalog. The imported images appear in the Media Browser and the Folders view
         now lists the new source subfolders, named according to the custom groups that you
         set up in the Photo Downloader dialog box.
      

Sorting your photos
         
When you call one of your favorite photos to mind, chances are that your first thoughts
            will be of the people in the picture, the location where you shot it, and the occasion
            that took you there. You can probably answer who, where, and when, or at least two
            of these questions, for the majority of your photographs. In the People, Places, and
            Events views in the Elements Organizer, Photoshop Elements makes it easy for you to
            sort, tag, and then search the photos in your library in terms of those faces, places,
            and happenings that mean the most to you.
         

Up to this point, your time in the Organizer has been spent in the Media view, where
         you can review all the images in your catalog, or see the contents of a single album
         or folder. You'll learn more about working in the Media view in Lesson 3; for now,
         we'll continue our exploration of the Organizer with a look at the People view and
         a test-drive of Photoshop Elements' powerful face recognition tools.
      

Automatically finding faces for tagging
Undoubtedly, your growing photo library will include many photos of your ­family,
            friends, and colleagues. Photoshop Elements makes it quick and easy to tag the faces
            in your pictures with the People Recognition feature, taking most of the work out
            of sorting and organizing a large portion of your catalog. People Recognition automatically
            finds the people in your photos and makes it simple for you to tag them. Once you
            begin using the People Recognition feature, Photoshop Elements learns to recognize
            the people you've already named and will automatically tag their faces whenever they
            appear in new photos.
         


Setting up People Recognition
Both the People Recognition feature, and also the automatic face tagging prompts that
            it generates, can be disabled. Before continuing with the exercises, you need to make
            sure that both are activated.
         

1 In the Organizer, choose Edit > Preferences > Media-Analysis (Windows) / Elements
         Organizer > Preferences (macOS).
      
2 In the Media-Analysis pane of the Preferences dialog box, make sure that the Run
         Face Recognition Automatically and Analyze Media For Smart Tags And Auto Curate options
         are both activated. Click OK to save your settings and close the Preferences dialog
         box.
      
3 In the View menu, make sure the People Recognition option is activated.
      
4 For the purposes of the following exercises, make sure that the Sort By menu at the
         left of the bar above the Media Browser is set to Oldest. If necessary, click the
         adjacent Back, or All Media, button to return to the unfiltered Media view.
      

Tagging faces in the Media Browser
         
Your first experience of People Recognition will probably be the circular Add Name
            prompt that appears as you move the pointer over a photo in the enlarged single image
            view in the Media Browser.
         




 Note
         
Once People Recognition begins to recognize a particular face, the Add Name prompt
            changes to read "Is this Emma?," giving you the opportunity to confirm or cancel automatic
            tagging.
         


People Recognition ­displays these hints to help you identify and tag all the people
         in your photos. You can ignore or disable the hints if you wish, but remember that
         the more people you identify, the smarter People Recognition gets at tagging the faces
         of your friends and family automatically.
      
1 In the Folders list at the left of the Organizer workspace, click the Import 4 folder.
         The Media Browser is filtered to display only the contents of that folder.
      
2 Scroll down in the Media Browser—or reduce the size of the thumbnails using the Zoom
         slider in the Taskbar—to locate the image People_16.jpg; then, double-click the thumbnail
         to see the photo enlarged in the single image view.
      
3 Move the pointer slowly over each of the faces in the image; white circles with the
         Add Name prompt appear around four of the five faces in this picture. People Recognition
         has failed to detect the face partially obscured by a hand.
      

If you don't see the face tagging prompts when you move the pointer over the photo
         in single image view, it may be that Photoshop Elements has not yet finished analyzing
         your recently imported photos.
      

4 Click the Add Name text below the tagging circle for the girl on the left. Type the
         name Emma, and then press Enter / return to commit the tag.
      
When you press Enter / return, a blue People tag badge appears briefly in the lower
         left corner of the enlarged photo in the single image view, confirming that a new
         tag has been created for Emma.
      
5 Type Kat to tag the mother, Sophie for the daughter beside her, and Pauline for the girl at the far right. Be sure to press Enter / return to commit each tag.
      

6 If necessary, click the Tags/Info button at the far right of the Taskbar to open
         the right panel group. On the Tags tab, expand the Imported Keyword Tags category,
         if necessary, and then expand the People Tags panel.
      
The Image Tags panel at the bottom of the right panel group shows that this photo
         now has five tags: the imported keyword tag Lesson 02-03, and the four new People tags that you created in this exercise.
      
These five tags are also listed at the lower right of the single image view.
As you can see, the People tags display a different badge from the standard keyword
         tag icon. This makes the photos that are already tagged for people easy to spot in
         the thumbnail grid.
      
7 Keep the photo open in single image view for the next exercise.
      

Tagging undetected faces
         
The People Recognition analysis occasionally misses faces that are partially obscured,
            "broken up" by harsh light and shadow, or photographed at an angle or in profile.
            You can tag undetected people manually in the single image view.
         

1 Click the Mark Face button in the Taskbar below the enlarged image.
      

2 Drag the new tagging box onto the face that was not detected. Use the handles on
         the box to resize it so that it frames the face neatly, and then click the green check
         mark to confirm the placement. Click the Add Name text and type Lilly in the text box; then, press Enter / return to confirm the new People tag.
      

In the right panel, the Lilly tag has been added to the People Tags list, and is now
         listed in the Image Tags panel as one of six tags attached to this image.
      



 Note
         
Depending on your operating system and how much experimenting you've been doing, the
            results you see from People Recognition may not be exactly the same as those referred
            to and illustrated in these exercises; for example, in step 4, you may see an Is This
            'Pauline'? hint in place of the Add Name prompt.
         


3 Press the right arrow key on your keyboard twice to navigate to the black and white
         photo of a girl seated on a stone lion.
      
4 Move the pointer over the girl's face and click the Add Name prompt; then, type the
         letter L. A menu appears, suggesting the Lilly tag—the only People tag in your catalog that
         begins with an "L." Click the Lilly tag to accept it; then, press Enter / return.
      
5 Press the left arrow key on your keyboard three times to navigate to the image People_15.jpg,
         a photo of three girls leaning on an ornate railing. Move the pointer over each girl's
         face in turn to see the tagging prompts.
      



 Note
         
Remember that the People Recognition tagging suggestions may not be exactly the same
            as those illustrated; however, this should not affect your ability to follow the workflow.
         


Although you've done very little tagging at this point, People Recognition is already
         learning, correctly identifying two of the three faces in our example.
      
6 Click to confirm or dismiss the tagging suggestions (from the left, the girls are
         Sophie, Lilly, and Emma). Where People Recognition does not suggest the right name,
         click the Add Name prompt and type the first letter of the girl's name; then, click
         the existing people tag to accept it and press Enter / return.
      
7 Double-click the image, or click Grid in the bar above the single image view to return
         the Media Browser to the thumbnail view, which is still filtered to display only the
         40 photos in the Import 4 folder.
      

Welcome to the People view
Now that you've tagged a few faces in the Media Browser, let's take a look at the
            People view, where your library is sorted by personnel, making it easy to answer the
            first question you're likely to ask about the photo you're looking for: Who?
         

In the People view, you can let People Recognition help you bulk-process your files,
         rather than working through your catalog one image at a time as we did in the single
         image view. To keep this exercise manageable, you'll make a start by tagging the people
         in just a subset of the photos in your catalog; that way we can avoid dealing with
         the faces of hundreds of marathon runners and wedding guests.
      
1 Click All Media at the left of the bar above the thumbnail grid to display all of
         the files in your catalog.
      
The Import 4 folder is no longer selected in the Folders list. The Media Browser now
         displays all of the photographs in your catalog; the file count in the lower left
         corner of the workspace shows the total number of images in your CIB Catalog.
      
The file names of the photos you'll use in this exercise all include the word "people."
         You can start by using a filename search to isolate these images in the media Browser,
         and then group them as an Album that you can designate as an image source while you're
         working in the People view.
      
2 Choose Find > By Filename. Type people; then, click OK. The search results bar immediately above the Media Browser shows
         that your catalog has been filtered so that you see only those items that match your
         filename search.
      
3 Choose Edit > Select All to select all the images returned by the text search; then,
         select the Albums tab at the top of the left panel. Click the Create New Album or
         Album Category button () beside the My Albums header. Make sure you click the green plus sign, not the small
         arrow beside it.
      
4 In the New Album panel at the right of the workspace, type Familiar Faces as the name for the new album; then, click OK in the Taskbar below the panel.
      

Navigating the People view
1 Select the Familiar Faces album in the My Albums list; then click the word People
            in the view picker at the top of the Organizer workspace. In the People view, make
            sure that you're looking at the Named tab.
         



Each stack in the Named people view shows a count of the photos already tagged with
            that person's name. A triangular notification badge ( ! ) indicates that People Recognition
            has already found more faces that may belong in the same stack.
         

The People view displays a stack of photos for each person you've tagged. By default,
         the first image tagged with a new People tag becomes that person's profile picture—the
         photo that appears on top of their stack in the People view.
      
2 Move the pointer slowly across each stack thumbnail in turn to quickly browse through
         all the images tagged with the same name.
      

3 Click the thumbnail for the Emma stack to expand the stack so you can see the faces
         that are already marked with Emma's People tag, as well as People Recognition's suggestions
         for inclusion in the stack. Leave the groups as they are, for the moment.
      
4 Click the Emma stack again to collapse it.
      
5 Click Unnamed in the bar below the mode picker to switch to the Unnamed people tab.
      



 Note
         
Depending on your operating system and how much experimenting you've been doing, the
            results you see from People Recognition may not be exactly the same as those referred
            to and illustrated in these exercises; the stacked groups and the order of the faces
            presented may vary, but the overall process will be the same.
         


With such a small selection of photos to analyze, People Recognition shows only two
         or three unnamed stacks (if any at all). By default, Photoshop Elements displays only
         the larger groups of faces stacked by People Recognition, in order to keep the Unnamed
         people view uncluttered.
      
6 Un-check the Hide Small Stacks option in the bar above the stack thumbnails.
      


Each stack in the Unnamed people view shows a count of the faces that People Recognition
            has judged to be similar, but cannot name. Move the pointer slowly across a stack
            thumbnail to quickly browse through all the images in the group.
         


Tagging faces in the People view
We'll start by looking at the stacking suggestions made by People Recognition in the
            Named people view.
         

1 Click Named in the bar below the mode picker to switch back to the Named people view.
         Click the Emma stack to expand it again.
      
2 In this case, neither of the suggestions is Emma. To confirm or dismiss a face, select
         it and click either Confirm or Not This Person in the Taskbar, or hover the pointer
         over the suggested face to see a preview of the photo it was found in (below, right); then, click the confirm or cancel icon on the tagging thumbnail.
      

3 Click the Kat stack. Dismiss any incorrect suggestions. Shift-click the first and
         last thumbnails to select all the correct suggestions; then, click the Confirm button
         in the Taskbar. Click the profile thumbnail again to collapse the stack.
      
4 Repeat the process for the Lilly, Pauline, and Sophie stacks; confirming or dismissing
         the suggested additions to stacks. The Pauline and Sophie stacks originally showed
         notification badges indicating that similar images had been identified, you may now
         find only confirmed photos; People Recognition has been learning from your actions
         and reanalyzing accordingly.
      
5 Switch back to the Unnamed people view. Click the first stack to expand it. In our
         example, all of the faces in the stack belong together; click the Add Name text and
         type Tom; then, press Enter / return.
      


 Note
         
Depending on your operating system and the steps you've taken, the results you see
            from People Recognition may not be exactly the same as those referred to and illustrated
            in these exercises; the stacked groups and the order of the faces presented may vary,
            but the overall process will be the same.
         



Once a stack is named, it disappears from the Unnamed people view and is added to
         the Named people stacks. If there is already a named stack for the same person, the
         two stacks are merged.
      
6 When you see multiple unnamed stacks for the same person, Control-click / Command-click
         to select the matching stacks, and then click the Merge People button in the Taskbar.
         Type the person's name (in our example it's Sophie) in the Add A Name dialog; then, click OK.
      


7 Continue merging and naming small stacks in the Unnamed people view until you're
         left with only the two faces shown in the illustration at the right, which don't belong
         in our six-member family group.
      
8 Select both of the remaining one-photo stacks and click the Don't Show Again button
         in the Taskbar. Click OK to confirm the removal of these faces.
      


 Tip
         
If you see a blue, triangular alert badge beside a stack, click the stack to see the
            new faces that have been found; then, confirm or dismiss the tagging suggestions.
         


9 Switch back to the Named view and click each stack to check for faces that don't
         match. If you dismiss any faces, you'll need to revisit the Unnamed view to name them.
         We ended up with the image counts shown below; compare your own results to see how
         well you learned to recognize this family of strangers.
      
10 Click one of the larger stacks in the Named view to expand it. Click Photos below
         the stack thumbnail to see the full photos rather than just the faces.
      


Working with People groups
         
You can make your People tagging more versatile by grouping your tags. You might find
            photos of the same person by looking in her personal stack, by filtering your Friends
            group, or by searching a group created for your basketball team.
         

1 If you don't see the Groups panel at the right of the workspace, click the Groups
         button () in the Taskbar. Click the Ungrouped listing in the Groups panel. The header above
         the People stacks indicates that all six people are ungrouped.
      

2 Ctrl-click / Command-click to select all six stacks, and then drag them to the Family
         group in the Groups panel. Click the Family listing; the header above the People stacks
         shows that all six people are now listed in that group.
      

3 Click the green Create New People Groups button ()—not the arrow beside it—in the header of the Groups panel. In the Add Group dialog,
         type Kids to name the group. Choose Family from the Group menu; then, click OK.
      
4 Select the stacks for the four sisters, and drag them to the new Kids group. In the
         Groups panel, click between the listings for the Kids and Family groups.
      
5 Right-click/Control-click the Kids group in the Groups list, and choose Add Group
         from the menu. Name the new group Twins. "Kids" is already selected as the group inside which the new group will be listed.
         Click OK.
      
6 Select the Pauline and Sophie stacks. Drag the Twins tag from the Groups panel onto
         either of the selected stacks. Click between the Family, Kids, and Twins listings;
         the People view is filtered to show the members of each group.
      

7 Click the word Media in the view picker at the top of the workspace to return to
         the Media Browser; then, click All Media at the upper left of the thumbnail grid.
         You'll learn more about the People view in Lesson 3.
      


Importing Facebook friends as People tags
When it's time to set up a Photoshop Elements catalog for your photos, you can speed
            up the process of tagging the people in your photos by downloading your Friends list
            from Facebook. Photoshop Elements converts your Facebook friends to People tags.
         

The next time you begin to type a name in a tagging box, Photoshop Elements will include
            the names of any of your Facebook friends that match the letters you've typed in the
            drop-down menu of existing People tags.
         
Once you've tagged a photo with the name of a Facebook friend, it will appear in the
            "Add Name" suggestions and in the search criteria for People, just like any other
            People tag.
         
1 Launch your default web browser, and log in to your Facebook account. (This step
            is not essential, but it will make the process smoother: you won't need to switch
            between the Organizer and your browser to log in later.)
         
2 In the Media Browser, double-click a photo with an untagged face to see it in the
            enlarged single image view; then, move the pointer over the face to see the tagging
            prompt. Click the Add Name text and begin typing; then, click the prompt to Add Facebook
            Friends that appears just below the text box.
         

3 Click through the dialogs asking you to authorize Photoshop Elements to access your
            Facebook account. The authorization sequence may vary slightly, depending on your
            web browser and Facebook account settings, but the process is self-explanatory.
         




Sorting photos by location
         
Think of that favorite photo again. You've answered "Who?"—now, let's ask "Where?"
            Photoshop Elements lets you organize your world in the Organizer's new Places view,
            where you can put your photographs on the map (quite literally!), making it fun to
            follow the trail of a family road trip or revisit memories of an exotic vacation.
         


Adding Places tags to photos from the Media view
In this exercise you'll create some new Places: saved locations that you can attach to your photos as tags, so that it's quick and
            easy to find that shot you took ... where?
         

1 Choose Find > By Filename. Type run; then, click OK. The search results bar immediately above the Media Browser shows
         that your catalog has been filtered so that you see only those items that match your
         filename search. Make sure the Sort By menu above the thumbnail grid is set to Oldest.
      
2 Shift-click, or drag a selection marquee, to select the first six photos in the Media
         Browser; then, click the Add Location button () in the Taskbar below the Media Browser.
      

3 In the Add A Location dialog, type New York in the text box. If the location suggestions menu does not appear quickly, press
         Enter / return. Click the suggestion New York, NY, USA; then, click Apply to create
         the new saved location. When more than one location suggestion is offered, always
         choose the suggestion with the most detailed location information so that Photoshop
         Elements can reference it for tagging.
      




 Note
         
In the Tags panel, the New York Places tag is colored differently from the United
            States tag; this indicates that it's the only tag with GPS data and a marker pin on
            the Places view map.
         


In the Media Browser, the selected photos are now marked with map-pin Places badges.
         Click the Keyword/Info button at the right of the Taskbar, if necessary, to open the
         right panel group. In the Tags panel, Expand the Places Tags category to see the nested
         listings for your new Places tags.
      

Adding photos to a saved location from the Media view
         
You can use the Places tags in the Tags panel to search your photos, and also to quickly
            add more images to a group that you've already placed on the map.
         

1 In the Media Browser, select the next five photos from the "run" search.
      
2 Drag the United States tag from the Places Tags list in the Tags panel to any of
         the selected photos. Alternatively, you could drag the photos onto the tag.
      

3 Hover over the Places tag badge on any of the selected photos; a tooltip lists the
         United States tag; to remove it from all the selected photos, right-click / Control-click
         the Places badge and choose Remove From United States Place.
      
4 With the five un-placed photos still selected, drag the New York tag from the Places
         Tags list to any of the selected photos. Hold the pointer over the Places tag badge;
         the tooltip shows that applying the New York tag has automatically added both of the
         tags in the hierarchy.
      
5 Click Back at the left of the bar above the thumbnails to show all of the photos
         in your catalog in the Media Browser.
      

A short trip to the Places view
Just as the People view has Named and Unnamed tabs, the Places view has Pinned and
            Unpinned modes. The Pinned tab displays only the images in your catalog that have
            location data; the Unpinned view gives you access to those you've yet to place.
         

Now that you've added some Places tags, you can begin to explore the Places view without
         finding either tab unpopulated.
      
1 Click the word Places in the view picker at the top of the workspace.
      

The arrangement of the Places view workspace depends on the way it was left the last
         time you visited. Follow the directions in the following steps to set up the workspace
         to match what's described and illustrated in this exercise.
      


 Note
         
For the sake of visual clarity, the Places view illustrations in this book show the
            map set to the Map style, which looks like a road map. The default is the Hybrid style,
            based on satellite photos. Use the menu at the upper left of the map to choose your
            preferred style.
         


2 In the Places view, click UnPinned in the bar below the view picker. Disable the
         Group By Time option at the left of the bar above the photo thumbnails. Use the Zoom
         slider in the Taskbar to reduce the size of the thumbnails so that you can see as
         many images as possible.
      
3 If the Map panel appears significantly narrower in relation to the rest of the workspace
         than it is in the illustration below, move the pointer over the left edge of the panel;
         then, when the pointer changes to a double-arrow cursor, drag the edge of the map
         to the left to make it wider.
      
4 If you don't see two pins on the map, click the Minus sign icon at the lower right
         of the map to zoom out or drag to pan your view. If you still don't see the pins,
         activate the Show Existing Pins On The Map option at the lower left of the map.
      



 Tip
         
If ever the map doesn't jump when you tell it to, or a pin seems to get lost in the
            move, choose View > Refresh.
         


The image counts on the map pins show that there are 11 photos placed at New York
         and another 36 images attached to a pin located in Scotland.
      

5 Move the pointer over the Scottish pin, and then click the arrows at either side
         of the thumbnail image to see previews of all the photos pinned at that location.
      
6 Click the image count at the lower right of the preview to close the map temporarily
         and show the thumbnail grid, with all the images attached to the pin. Click Back at
         the upper left above the thumbnail grid to return to the split screen Places view.
      

Adding photos to a saved location from the Places view
         
You can use the Places tags in the Tags panel to search your photos, and also to quickly
            add more images to a group that you've already placed on the map.
         

1 Activate the Group By Time option at the left of the bar above the thumbnail grid.
         Drag the Number Of Groups slider to the maximum setting.
      
2 Scroll down in the preview pane until you find the November 6, 2011 group. These
         are the un-pinned remainder of the images from our "run" text search.
      


 Tip
         
You can drag photos directly onto the map from the preview pane, either in time line
            or grid mode, even without an existing pin; however, this method may not generate
            a Places tag in the Tags panel unless you edit the location information for the resultant
            pin.
         


3 Click the checkmark at the left of the group name to select all eight photos. You
         could click the Add Location button and do a text search for New York, as you did
         in the Media view, but as you already have a pin in the right place, you can simply
         drag the selected images to the New York pin.
      

The image count on the New York pin increases to 19, indicating that the last of our
         marathon photos were successfully placed. As the November 6, 2011 images are now pinned,
         they have been removed from the UnPinned Places preview pane.
      
4 Click Pinned in the bar below the view picker. Move the pointer over the New York
         pin to enlarge it; then click the Edit button at the lower left of the pin preview.
         In the Edit Location dialog, zoom into the map, if necessary, and then drag the pin
         to position it on Central Park. Click the green check mark to confirm the move. Click
         No to dismiss the Add A Sub-location dialog; then, click Done to dismiss the Edit
         Location dialog.
      
5 Move the pointer over the New York pin, and then click the image count at the lower
         right of the preview to close the map temporarily and show the thumbnail grid, with
         all the images that are attached to that pin.
      
6 Click Back at the upper left of the grid to return to the map view, then switch back
         to the UnPinned view in readiness for the next exercise.
      

Generating Places tags for photos with GPS data
         
Places tags are created automatically for photos placed on the map using the Add Location
            command, as you did for the New York photos. However, when you import ­photos with
            embedded GPS coordinates—like our 36 Scotland images—Photoshop Elements shows them
            on the map but does not generate searchable Places tags. If you wish to generate tags
            for photos like these, you need to edit their location.
         


1 Use the map's zoom button (+) to zoom in on the Scotland location until you can see
         the names of the major cities, and the marker splits to show two separate pins. Click
         the southern pin to select the 18 photos attached to that location on the map; then,
         click the Edit button at the lower left of the enlarged pin preview.
      
2 In the Edit Location dialog, type Edinburgh in the Search box above the map pane and click Search. Click the location suggestion
         Edinburgh, UK; then, click the green check icon to confirm the placement of 18 photos at that location.
         Click Done to close the Edit Location dialog.
      
3 If necessary, zoom out far enough to see the other pinned location to the north.
      
4 Zoom in to the northern pin by nine or ten clicks on the map zoom control (+). Move
         the pointer over the pin; then click the Edit button at the lower left of the enlarged
         preview. In the Edit Location dialog, drag the location pin north and west to position
         it closer to the coastline. Click the green check icon to confirm the operation; then,
         click No to dismiss the Add A Sub-location dialog. Click Done to close the Edit Location
         dialog.
      
5 Zoom out enough to see both pins; then, leave the map as it is, in preparation for
         the next exercise that will bring you to the Places view, in Lesson 3. Click Media
         in the view picker to return to the Media Browser.
      

In the Tags panel, the new tags are listed under Places Tags. Each level is listed
         alphabetically; so that United Kingdom appears above United States and Edinburgh above
         Highland.
      
6 Right-click / Control click the tag Highland and choose Rename. Type Rua Reidh as the new name for this Places tag; then, click OK.
      

Grouping photos as Events
         
When was your favorite photo taken? Was it at an anniversary dinner? Before your daughter's
            school concert? Or during a week-long tropical cruise? The enhanced Events view in
            Elements Organizer helps you tag your photos by occasion, making it even simpler to
            search your image library for all those precious memories.
         


Creating Events from the Media Browser
You can select the images from a particular occasion in the thumbnail grid, and then
            create a new Event to group them, without leaving the Media Browser.
         



 Tip
         
If you don't see the capture dates and file names below the thumbnails, choose View
            > Details, and then View > File Names. If those options are already activated, use
            the slider to increase the thumbnail size.
         


1 Choose Find > By Filename. Type festival; then, click OK. Make sure that the Sort By menu above the thumbnail grid is set
         to Oldest. The Media Browser shows fifteen photos that were all captured on the same
         date. Select the first five photos in the series and click the Add Event button () in the Taskbar below the Media Browser.
      

2 In the Add New Event panel at the right type Medieval Fair to name the new Event. You won't need to alter the date settings; Photoshop Elements
         has automatically set both the start and end dates to the capture date of the selected
         photos. When you click the Add Event button without first selecting a group of photos,
         you can set the start and end dates manually by clicking the calendar buttons at the
         right. Click Done at the right of the Taskbar to confirm the new Event.
      
3 In the Tags panel, expand the Events Tags category to see the new event.
      
4 Select the next 9 photos in the Media Browser, leaving the last image in the series,
         Festival_15.jpg, un-selected. To add the selected photos to the newly created event,
         either drag the Medieval Fair tag from the Tags panel to any of the selected images
         or drag the selection from the thumbnail grid onto the tag.
      

An invitation to the Events view
Do you like weddings? Sporting events? Street festivals? Road trip vacations? We've
            got them all ... what are you waiting for?
         

1 Click Events in the view picker at the top of the Organizer workspace to switch to
         the Events view. If necessary, click Named in the bar below the view picker to switch
         to the default Named Events view. This view mode remains unpopulated until you've
         saved at least one event—currently, its only occupant is your new Medieval Fair stack.
      
Right now, you're probably thinking "Where's the promised sports and scenic views?
         Bring on the bride!" Patience, please—we're not yet done with the parade.
      

2 Move the pointer slowly across the Medieval Fair stack to see all the images from
         this Event. Stop the pointer when you see your favorite image in the set. To make
         this photo the top image in the stack—the cover photo—right-click / Control-click
         it and choose Set As Cover.
      

Adding photos to an Event
1 Double-click the Medieval Fair event stack to see all of the photos it contains,
            and then click the Add Media button () in the Taskbar at the bottom of the workspace.
         

2 Under Basic at the left of the Add Media dialog box, make sure that All Media is
         set as the image source. The source images in the Add Media dialog box are ordered
         from newest to oldest so you'll need to scroll down in the preview pane to find the
         festival photos.
      
3 Click to select the image Festival_15.jpg, a rear view of a parade musician in an
         orange jacket and plumed hat. Click Add Selected Media at the bottom of the dialog
         box; then, click Done.
      

4 Check the image count in the lower left corner of the workspace; there are now fifteen
         images in this Event. Collapse the event and return to the Named events view by clicking
         Back at the upper left.
      

Getting smart about creating Events
         
You can avoid the effort of locating the images for a new Event manually by letting
            Photoshop elements find the important occasions in your catalog automatically.
         

1 Select the Import 3 folder from the My Folders list in the left panel; then, click
         Suggested in the actions bar below the view picker to switch from the default Named
         events view to Suggested events mode.
      
2 Drag the Number Of Groups slider to the maximum setting.
      
In Suggested Events mode, Photoshop Elements detects likely Event groups amongst the
         photos in your catalog—or in a selected folder—on the basis of capture dates. Suggested
         Events has separated the New York marathon photos into two stacks.
      

3 Click Add Event at the right of the header of each of these stacks in turn and type
         a name in the Name Event dialog box. Check the dates on the two stacks and name the
         new Events NY Marathon 2010 and NY Marathon 2011. Click OK to create the new event stack.
      
4 The other suggested stack has 19 photos shot at a wedding. Make sure no other stack
         is selected; then, select this stack and click the Add Event button () in the Taskbar. Name the new Event Annie's Wedding. Click OK.
      
5 Click the Import 4 folder in the left panel and reset the Number Of Groups slider
         to the maximum setting. The fourth event group contains 4 photos dated June 26, 2010
         that belong in the Annie's Wedding event. Select all four images and click Media in
         the view picker at the top of the workspace to switch to the Media view.
      
6 Drag the selected photos to the Annie's Wedding tag in the Tags panel; then, click
         All Media above the Media Browser and click Events in the view picker to return to
         the Events view in Suggested Events mode.
      

Creating long Events
         
... And now it's time for that promised road trip.

1 If necessary, reset the Number Of Groups slider to the maximum setting; then, find
         the Suggested Event group dated May 26-21, 2013.
      
2 Select the group, and then click Add Event to the right of the header. In the Name
         Event dialog box, type Scottish Road Trip to name the new Event. Photoshop Elements has already set the start and end dates
         for the Suggested Event to the capture dates of the oldest and most recent photos
         in the selection. Type you take the high road in the Description box; then, click OK to create the Event.
      
3 Switch from Suggested Events mode to the Named Events view.
      


 Note
         
You'll return to look at the Smart Events mode in greater detail in Lesson 3.


4 Move the pointer slowly across each stack to review the contents, and then right-click
         / Control-click each Event to set a new cover photo. Click the Info button () on the Scottish Road Trip stack to see the description you entered.
      

5 Click Media in the view picker to switch back to the Media Browser.
      
Congratulations! In this lesson you've learned a variety of ways to import media files
         into your Photoshop Elements catalog, and then used the People, Places, and Events
         views to sort and tag your images so that finding a photo will be as easy as asking
         "Who, where, and when?" In the next lesson you'll look at ways to add even deeper
         levels of organization to your catalog and discover how to locate exactly the file
         you want—the payoff for all this organizing! Before you move on, take a minute or
         two to read through the review questions and answers on the facing page.
      


Review questions
1 Name three ways to import photos from your computer hard disk into your catalog.
            


2 What is a "watched folder"?
      
3 Is there a way to generate searchable Places tags for photos imported with GPS data?
      
4 How can you add photos to an existing Person, Place or Event?
      


Review answers
1 This lesson demonstrated three ways to import photos from your hard disk:
            


• Drag and drop photographs from a Windows Explorer/Finder window into the Media Browser
         pane in the Organizer window.
      
• In the Organizer, choose File > Get Photos and Videos > From Files and Folders,
         or choose the same command from the menu on the Import button at the upper left of
         the workspace.
      
• Choose In Bulk, from either of the menus mentioned above, and then select the folders
         and subfolders on the hard disk that you wish to import.
      
2 If you designate a folder on your computer as watched, Photoshop Elements is automatically
         alerted when new photos are saved or added to that folder. By default, the My Pictures
         / Pictures folder is watched.
      
3 Although Photoshop Elements will pin photos imported with embedded GPS data on the
         Places view map, it doesn't automatically generate corresponding Places tags as it
         does for photos that you place manually. To generate searchable tags for these photos,
         you need to relocate them on the map. Select the photos in the Places view; then,
         click Edit in the enlarged pin preview. In the Edit Location dialog, either move the
         associated location pin slightly or use the search box to apply a known place name.
      
4 To add photos to an existing Person, Place, or Event from the Organizer, select the
         photos you wish to include, and then either drag the selection from the Media Browser
         to the desired tag in the Tags panel, or drag the tag itself to any of the selected
         images. To add photos to an established Event from the Events view, double-click the
         Event stack to expand it; then, click the Add Media button in the Taskbar at the bottom
         of the workspace, and browse for the photos you wish to add. In the People view, double-click
         to expand a person's stack, and then click the Find More button in the Taskbar.
      







3. Tagging, Grouping, and Searching Photos


Lesson overview
As your image collection grows larger and larger, keeping track of your ­photos can
            be a daunting task. Photoshop Elements ­delivers sophisticated, intuitive organizing
            tools that make the job enjoyable. When the time comes to search and filter your photo
            library for that special shot that you know is in your catalog somewhere, the same sophisticated, intuitive tools will make it just as much fun to find it.
         
In this lesson, you'll learn a few more techniques for sorting and grouping your photos,
            and a variety of ways to search your catalog:
         
• Using ratings to classify images by quality or usefulness
         
• Working with keyword tags and categories
         
• Using version sets and stacks to organize the thumbnail grid
         
• Grouping photos in albums
         
• Searching for people, places, and events
         
• Managing files in the My Folder list
         
• Filtering by date or import batch with the Timeline
         
• Finding photos by similarity, metadata, and text search
         

You'll probably need between one and two hours to complete this lesson. If you haven't
            already done so, log in to your peachpit.com account to download the combined lesson files for Lessons 2 and 3, or follow the
            instructions under "Accessing the Classroom in a Book Lesson Files" in the Getting
            Started section at the beginning of this book.
         




It's time to reap the rewards for all that sorting, reviewing, tagging, and organizing!
            Revisit the People, Places, and Events views in search-and-filter mode, where locating
            the photo you want is as easy as asking "Who, where, and when?" Find out how to set
            up complex, multi-criteria filters that can be saved and run again whenever you import
            new images, making it easy to keep your albums up to date.
         


Getting started
         
Before you begin this lesson you should first complete Lessons 1 and 2.

The exercises in Lesson 3 work with sample photos that were imported in the two preceding
         lessons, and require that the working catalog that you created in Lesson 1 is already
         organized with the People, Places, and Events tags that were applied in the course
         of Lesson 2.
      

Making it easier to find your photos
In Lesson 2, you made a start on organizing your image library by sorting and tagging
            the photos in terms of faces, locations, and events.
         

In Lesson 3, you'll learn more ways to order and "mark" your images, and discover
         how organizing your catalog can pay dividends by making it quick and easy to find
         the photos you want using the Organizer's search capabilities.
      
It's a good idea to make several sorting and tagging passes through each batch of
         photos you import while they're still fresh in your mind, so that they don't get lost
         in forgotten corners of your hard disk. This becomes an increasingly important strategy
         as you add more images to your library.
      

1 In the Organizer, click the Import button at the upper left of the workspace and
         choose From Files And Folders from the menu.
      
2 In the Get Photos And Videos From Files And Folders dialog box, navigate to and open
         the folder Lesson 2-3 and select the subfolder Zoo. Make sure that the option Get
         Photos From Subfolders is activated and the other automatic processing options are
         disabled; then, click Get Media.
      
3 In the Import Attached Keyword Tags dialog box, click Select All; then, click OK.
      
4 The newly imported images appear in the Media Browser. Click the Clear button at
         the right of the bar above the thumbnails to clear the Last Import filter and view
         all of the photos in your catalog.
      

Rating photos
Rating your photos is a simple, yet effective way to add another level of ­organization
            to your catalog. With a single click or keystroke, you can mark a photo as one of
            your best, or relegate it to the bottom drawer—even while you're reviewing your images
            as a full-screen slide show. You might choose from your five-star collection for a
            creative project, select from photos with a rating of three stars or higher for a
            presentation, or trim your catalog by removing all your un-rated rejects.
         

1 Make sure that Media is selected in the view picker at the top of the workspace.
         Click All Media or Back, if either is visible in the actions bar above the Media Browser,
         so that you see all the images in your catalog, rather than a filtered selection or
         the contents of a single folder.
      

2 Click the Import 1 folder in the My Folders list in the left panel.
      
3 In the Media Browser, move the pointer slowly from left to right over the stars beneath
         your favorite photo in this folder. When you see five yellow stars, click to apply
         that rating.
      
4 Select one of the other images in the Media Browser, and then press a number from
         1 to 4 on your keyboard to apply that rating. Rate the remaining photos in the Import
         1 folder, using whichever method you prefer.
      
5 To filter the Media Browser to display only those images from the Import 1 folder
         with three or more stars, click the third star in the Ratings filter at the right
         of the bar above the thumbnails and choose the appropriate qualifier from the adjacent
         menu.
      



 Tip
         
The more photos you rate, the better for the demonstration of search features later
            in this lesson.
         


6 Click the third star in the Ratings filter once more to deactivate the filter. Select
         each of the other folders in the My Folders list in turn and rate about half of the
         photos in each folder. For the folders Import 3 and Import 4, try to rate a selection
         of images from each of the photo series in each folder.
      
7 When you're done, click All Media—at the left above the thumbnail grid—to show all
         the images in your catalog, rather than the contents of a single folder.
      

Tagging photos with keywords
Keyword tags are custom labels that you can attach to your photos and other media
            files, making it possible to sort them—and later, search for them—by personalized
            associations other than people, places, and events.
         

Keyword tags make it unnecessary to set up subject-specific folders or rename files
         with content-specific names. Both of these solutions are inflexible, confining a given
         photo to a single group. In contrast, you can assign multiple keyword tags to a single photo, associating it with several different groups of images simultaneously,
         and then use a keyword search to quickly retrieve any of those collections, even if
         the image files are scattered through different folders on your hard disk.
      
Keywords provide a perfect solution for tagging images that don't feature people you
         know, or where the location or event at which the photos were captured is not a particularly
         relevant association.
      
For photos that are already tagged for People, Places, and Events, keywords can be
         used to refine a search. For example, you could use People and Places tags to quickly
         isolate all your photos of Kat and Tom together in New York, and then use keywords
         to filter for winter shots captured at night.
      

Organizing keyword tags and categories
1 If necessary, click the Keyword/Info button at the far right of the Taskbar to open
            the right panel group.
         


2 If you don't see a list of keywords—or at least, the collapsed Keywords header—at
         the top of the right panel group, click the Tags tab to bring the Tags panel to the
         front. If necessary, click the arrow at the left of the Keywords header to expand
         the Keywords list.
      
Photoshop Elements ships with a few default keywords to help get you started. In this
         exercise you'll convert two of the default keywords to keyword categories by creating
         sub-categories inside them, and then make a start on organizing your keywords by moving
         them into a hierarchical arrangement.
      

3 Select the Nature tag at the top of the Keywords list; then, click the small arrow
         beside the green plus-sign button () to the right of the Keywords header. Examine the options available in the menu;
         then, choose New Sub-Category.
      

4 In the Create Sub-category dialog box, the selected Nature keyword has been automatically
         set as the parent category inside which your new tag will be nested. Name the new
         sub-category Animals, and then click OK to create the new Keywords listing and close the Create Sub-category
         dialog box.
      
5 Right-click / Control-click the Nature tag and choose Create New Sub-category. Name
         the new sub-category Scenic, confirm that Nature is set as the parent category, and then click OK.
      
6 Expand the Imported Keyword Tags category, if necessary, to see all the keyword tags
         that you've imported together with the lesson images.
      



 Tip
         
Although this procedure does not add the Nature or Animals keywords to the Zoo photos
            as tags, searching your catalog for either "parent" keyword will return any image
            tagged with any of the keywords nested inside these categories.
         


7 Ctrl-click / Command-click to group-select the Aquarium, Birds, Bison, Elephant,
         Giraffe, Monkey, and Siamang keywords that were imported with the photos from the
         Zoo folder. Drag the seven selected keyword tags to the Animals tag in the expanded
         Nature category.
      
The seven relocated tags are now nested inside the Animals keyword sub-category.
8 Select the Animals category; then, click the small arrow beside the green plus-sign
         button () at the upper right of the panel and choose New Sub-Category from the menu. In the
         Create Sub-Category dialog box, name the new sub-category Mammals. The selected Animals keyword has been automatically set as the parent sub-category.
         Click OK.
      

9 Drag all of the tags in the Animals category other than the Birds keyword to the
         new Mammals sub-category. Right-click / Control-click the Mammals keyword and choose
         Create New Sub-Category. Name the new sub-category Primates, and then click OK. Drag the Monkey and Siamang tags into the new sub-category.
      

Customizing the Keywords list
You can see that the keyword list will soon become quite complex. Color-coding the
            categories you use most often, and assigning thumbnail images to the tags in place
            of the generic tag icons, may make navigating the hierarchy easier.
         


1 Choose Preferences > Keyword Tags And Albums from the Edit menu on Windows or Preferences
         from the Elements Organizer menu on macOS. In the Keyword Tags And Albums pane of
         the Preferences dialog box, activate the picture tag option under Keyword Tag Display.
         Click OK to save the setting.
      

2 In the Keywords list, right-click / Control-click the Nature category and choose
         Edit from the Context menu. In the Edit Category dialog box, click Choose Color and
         choose a color from the picker. Leave the category name unchanged. Scroll the Category
         Icon menu and click to select an icon; then, click OK to close the Edit Category dialog
         box.
      

The Nature category now has a distinctive icon and color-coded badges on its sub-categories
         and keywords, making it stand out in the list. If you can't see the full keyword names,
         drag the left edge of the panel group to make it wider. If the edited Nature category
         changes position in the Keywords list, drag it back to the top.
      

3 Right-click / Control-click the Monkey tag and choose Edit from the menu. In the
         Edit Keyword Tag dialog box, click Edit Icon.
      

4 Use the arrows at the sides of the Find button in the Edit Keyword Tag Icon dialog
         box to cycle through all the photos tagged with the Monkey keyword. When you see the
         image you want, drag the handles of the bounding box to set a new keyword badge. A
         thumbnail at the top of the dialog box shows how the image will look applied to a
         tag icon. Click OK to ­confirm the new badge image; then click OK to close the Edit
         Keyword Tag dialog box.
      
5 Click the arrow beside the plus-sign button () to the right of the Keywords header and choose New Category. In the Create Category
         dialog box, name the new category Travel. Choose a tag badge color and category icon, and then click OK. Right-click / Control-click
         the new category in the Keywords list and choose Create New Sub-Category. Name the
         nested sub-category Family Trips.
      

Creating and applying keyword tags
You can also work with keywords in the People, Places, and Events views.

1 Click People in the view picker at the top of the Organizer workspace. Make sure
         that you're in the Named people mode.
      

2 If necessary, click All People at the top of the Groups panel, to see all your People
         stacks. Click the Emma stack to expand it. If necessary, click Photos below Emma's
         stack to switch from the Faces view to the Photos view. Double-click the photo shown
         in the illustration at the left. If you don't see that image in Emma's stack, check
         the other People stacks to locate the photo and select it.
      

3 With People_12.jpg selected in the expanded People stack, click the Info button at
         the right of the Taskbar; then, type Hill Walking in the text box at the top of the Image Tags panel. Click Add to apply the new keyword.
         Click Back above the thumbnails grid.
      
Now, you'll use the Places view to locate the other photos shot at the same location.

4 Click Places in the view picker at the top of the workspace. If necessary, pan the
         map to focus on the Scotland marker, and then zoom in until the marker divides to
         show two location pins. Double-click the northern pin to see all of the photos that
         are pinned at that location; then, choose Edit > Select All.
      
5 Click the Info button at the right end of the Taskbar, and then type the letter H in the text box in the header of the Image Tags panel. Choose the newly created Hill
         Walking tag from the pop-up menu. Click Add to apply the new keyword to all the selected
         photos.
      
6 Deselect all the photos, then Ctrl-click / Command click to select just the four
         scenic landscape shots featuring the rocky Scottish coastline.
      

7 Type the letter S in the Image Tags panel text box; then, choose the Scenic tag from the tagging suggestions.
         Click Add to apply the new keyword to the four selected photos; then, deselect them.
         Click Back above the thumbnail grid to return to the Map view, and then click Media
         in the view picker to switch to the Media Browser, where you can organize your new
         tags.
      
8 Expand the Travel keyword category, if necessary; then, drag the Hill Walking tag
         from the Other category into the subcategory Family Trips.
      

9 Drag the Travel category to the top of the Tags panel, and release the mouse button
         when you see a blue line indicating an insertion point just below the Keywords header.
      
10 Right-click / Control-click the Hill Walking tag, and choose Edit from the context
         menu; then, customize the tag thumbnail as you did in the previous exercise.
      
You'll end your keyword-tagging expedition in the Events view, where you'll tag all
         the images from one event, and just a selection of photos from another.
      


 Tip
         
If you don't see names on the image stacks in the Events view, click the switch above
            the thumbnails to move from Smart Events view to the regular Events mode.
         


11 Click Events in the view picker. Make sure you're in the Named events view; then,
         double-click the Annie's Wedding stack to expand it. Press Ctrl+A / Command+A to select
         all the photos in this Event; then click the Info button at the right of the Taskbar,
         and type Milestones in the text box at the top of the Image Tags panel. Click Add to apply the new keyword
         to all of the selected photos. Click the Back button in the actions bar above the
         thumbnail grid to collapse the Annie's Wedding stack and see all of the Events in
         your catalog.
      

12 Expand the Scottish Road Trip stack by double-clicking it. Select the six images
         in this Event that feature the Rua Reidh lighthouse. In the Image Tags panel, type
         Lighthouse in the text box; then, click Add to apply the tag.
      

13 Click Media in the view picker to return to the Media Browser and see your new tags
         listed in the Keywords list. Press Ctrl+Shift+A (Windows) or Command+Shift+A (Mac)
         to deselect all of the images in the current selection. Set a new thumbnail for the
         Lighthouse and Milestones keyword tags as you did for the other new tags.
      

Grouping photos
         
As the number of files in your photo library increases, it can be more difficult to
            spot the image you want amongst the thumbnails displayed in the Media Browser.
         

Simply grouping some of your images in stacks and version sets can reduce the clutter
         in the thumbnails grid, effectively simplifying the view by hiding collections of
         related shots behind a single thumbnail until they're needed.
      

Working with version sets
A version set groups a photo in its original state with any edited copies that you've
            generated, so you can find all the edited versions of the image stacked behind a single
            thumbnail in the Media Browser, rather than scattered through your catalog.
         

Photoshop Elements automatically creates a version set whenever you edit a photo in
         the Elements Organizer. When you edit an image from your catalog in the Editor, you
         can choose whether to create a version set or not in the Save As dialog box.
      
Grouping your edited files in this way not only makes it much easier for you to find
         the version you want, but also lets you keep your original, unedited photo intact,
         easy to find and ready for a different treatment whenever you want to re-use it.
      
1 If the All Media button is visible in the actions bar above the thumbnails, click
         it to ensure that the Media Browser is showing all of the images in your catalog.
      
2 To isolate the zoo images, click the search box beside the Nature > Animals sub-category
         in the Keywords list. Scroll down in the Media Browser, if necessary, and select the
         image DSC_0736.jpg.
      

You have just made your first keyword search. With one click, you've retrieved all
         the photos from your last import, despite the fact that they are spread across seven
         folders and are tagged with as many separate keywords. The search results bar above
         the thumbnails grid displays the single search term: Animals.
      



 Note
         
The Smart Fix edit corrects the overall color balance and also enhances detail in
            the brightest and darkest areas of the image.
         


3 Click the Instant Fix button () beside the Editor button in the Taskbar to open the Instant Fix editing window.
         Click the Smart Fix () button at the right. Click Done at the lower right, and then click Yes to save the
         changes.
      
In the Media view, the edited copy is stacked on top of the original photo in a version
         set.
      
A version set can be identified by a badge (representing a stack of photos overlaid
         by a paint brush) in the upper right corner of the thumbnail, and by a file name extension
         indicating that the photo has been edited.
      

4 Click the Instant Fix button (), and then click the Crop button (). Choose the Custom preview from the cropping options; then, drag the handles of
         the cropping box to crop the image around the subjects. Click the green check icon;
         then, click Done. Click Yes to save the changes.
      
5 Click the expand button () to the right of the thumbnail image to see the original and edited images in the
         version set displayed side by side. Select the original image, DSC_0736.jpg, and then
         repeat step 3.
      


 Tip
         
If you applied a star rating to this photo earlier, you'll notice that the edited
            copies have inherited the same rating. If you think the Smart Fix and Crop operations
            represent an improvement, increase the rating for your preferred version.
         


6 There are now three photos in the version stack, with the most recent copy on top.
         Select the first copy, DSC_0736_edited-1.jpg—the center image in the version set—and
         choose Edit > Version Set > Set As Top Item. The two edited copies change places in
         the stack; the older version is now the "cover photo."
      
7 To see only the topmost photo in the version set, click the collapse button to the
         right of the original image, or right-click / Control-click any photo in the set and
         choose Version Set > Collapse Items In Version Set from the context menu. Note the
         other commands available from the same context menu; these commands can also be found
         in the Edit > Version Set menu.
      


About stacks
         
Scrolling past rows and rows of images of the same subject to find the one you're
            looking for can be time-consuming and frustrating. You can reduce clutter in the thumbnail
            grid and make browsing for photos more enjoyable, and far more productive, by stacking
            related shots behind a single, distinctive thumbnail.
         



 Tip
         
Stacks are particularly useful for managing long series of related images, such as
            shots taken at sports events with your camera's burst mode or auto-bracket feature.
            When you take photos this way you end up with many variations of what is essentially
            the same image—if you stack the series, you'll see only the best shot in the Media
            Browser.
         


Glancing along just one row of stacks in the thumbnails grid could save you the effort
         of scrolling through screen after screen of distracting images.
      
1 In the Media Browser, Ctrl-click / Command-click to select the four images shot at
         the aquarium, including the version set you created in the previous exercise.
      

2 Right-click / Control-click the photo you edited earlier and choose Stack > Stack
         Selected Photos. The images are stacked, with the edited copy on top, now marked with
         a stack icon beside its version set badge. Click the arrow at the right side of the
         stack frame to expand and collapse the stack.
      
3 Select the four images of elephants, and then right-click / Control-click the photo
         you'd like to set as the top image and choose Stack > Stack Selected Photos from the
         context menu. Repeat the process for the four photos of black siamangs from Thailand
         and the six images of American bison.
      

Stacking photos automatically
You can automate the process of grouping related photos in your catalog by having
            Photoshop Elements suggest stacks, based on visual similarities between images.
         



 Tip
         
Experiment with as many of your own photos as possible, so that you'll get a feel
            for the kind of images that perform best with this feature.
         


1 Press Ctrl+A / Command+A to select all of the animal photos in the Media Browser;
         then, choose Edit > Stack > Automatically Suggest Photo Stacks.
      
In the Visual Similarity Photo Search dialog box, Photoshop Elements presents groups
         as potential stacks. Before you go ahead and stack these groups, let's look at the
         options for tweaking the automatic stacking process manually.
      

2 To merge suggested groups of photos that belong together, Shift-click to select the
         images in one group and drag them into the other. In the illustration at the right,
         Photoshop Elements has not grouped all of the photos of squirrel monkeys; you may
         see a different result, depending on your operating system.
      


 Tip
         
Remember that you may see different results than those illustrated, depending on your
            operating system.
         


3 Click Unique Photos at the lower left of the Visual Similarity Photo Search dialog
         box. The Unique Photos pane shows any photos from the selection in the Media Browser
         for which Photoshop Elements has been unable to suggest a stack.
      



 Tip
         
You can simply reverse this process to remove a photo from a group suggested for stacking.


4 Drag the first image in the Unique Photos pane to the top group of five shots featuring
         squirrel monkeys. Drag the next four images to group them with the two other photos
         featuring birds, and then add the last two images to the two photos of giraffes in
         the bottom group.
      
5 When you stack these groups, the first image in each group will become the top image
         in the stack. Drag your favorite photo from each group to the first position in that
         group, and then click the Stack button at the right of the divider bar above the group.
         Each of the new stacks displays the stacked photos badge.
      

6 Click Done. In the Media Browser, the 36 photos with keywords from the Animals category
         are now displayed as just seven stack thumbnails. Click Media in the view picker;
         then click the Back button in the actions bar, if it's visible, to see all of the
         photos in your catalog.
      

Tips for working with stacks
         
You should keep these points in mind when you're working with stacks:



 Tip
         
To access stack commands, right-click / Control-click any image in a stack and choose
            from the Stack submenu. Alternatively, select a photo in the stack and choose from
            the Edit > Stack menu.
         


• Combining two or more stacks merges them to form one new stack, with the most recent
         photo on top of the stack. The original groupings are not preserved.
      
• Many actions applied to a collapsed stack, such as editing and printing, are applied
         to the top item only. To apply an action to multiple images in a stack, either expand
         the stack and group-select the images, or unstack them first.
      
• If you edit a photo that you've already included in a stack, the photo and its edited
         copy will be grouped as a version set nested inside the stack.
      
• If you apply a keyword tag to a collapsed stack, the keyword tag is applied to all
         items in the stack. When you run a search on the keyword tag, the top photo in the
         stack appears in the search results marked with the stack icon. If you want to apply
         a keyword tag to only one photo in a stack, expand the stack first.
      

Creating albums
Another way of grouping your photos is to organize them into albums. An album is like
            a virtual folder where you can assemble a collection of images that may be drawn from any number
            of actual folders on your hard disk. You might create a new album to collate and arrange the
            pictures that you intend to include in a creative project such as a photo book or
            a slide show, or to group your images of a special interest subject such as flowers,
            classic cars, or macro photography.
         



 Tip
         
You can achieve similar groupings and sub-groups by using keywords tags, but your
            Road Trips album may contain only a sub-set of the photos you've tagged with the keyword
            Road Trips.
         


A photo can be included in more than one album­—the same image might be the first
         in a New York Architecture album and the last in a National Monuments album. You can
         also group albums­; for example, you might group your New York and San Francisco albums
         together inside a Vacations album; while your Road Trips album includes the San Francisco
         album, but not the New York album.
      
The principal advantage to grouping photos in an album rather than using a shared
         keyword tag is that in an album you can rearrange the order of the photos as you wish.
         In the Media Browser, each photo in an album displays a number in the upper left corner,
         representing its place in the order. You can drag photos to change their position
         within the album, which will affect the order in which they appear in a slide show
         or their placement in a project layout.
      

1 If necessary, click the Keyword / Info button in the Taskbar to show the Tags panel.
         In the Keywords list, select the Animals > Mammals > Primates sub-category; then,
         click the search box at the left of the Primates tag to isolate all the images with
         tags that are included in that category. The grid displays two stacks that you created
         earlier.
      
In albums, stacks are a special case; you can include a stack in an album, but only
         the top photo from the stack will appear in a slide show, for instance, unless you
         expand the stack and select all the photos inside it before you start the slide show.
      
You can't rearrange the order of stacked photos in an album, add a selection of photos
         from a stack to an album without adding the entire stack, or remove a stacked image
         from your album without removing the rest of the stack.
      
So, you can start by unstacking the photos in the Primates category.
2 Shift-click to select both of the stacks in the Media Browser, and then choose Edit
         > Stack > Unstack Photos.
      
3 Select the best three shots of the black siamangs; then, click Albums at the top
         of the left panel. Click the green plus sign () to the right of the My Albums header; make sure you click the green plus sign, not
         the small arrow beside it.
      
4 In the New Album panel at the right, type Monkey Business as the name for the new album; then, click OK in the Taskbar below the panel.
      



 Tip
         
If you don't see the album badges below the thumbnails in the Media Browser, use the
            Zoom slider in the Taskbar to increase the size of the thumbnails. Hold the pointer
            over the album badge to see which album or albums a photo belongs to.
         



5 Your new album appears in the My Albums list, and the three siamang photos that you
         selected for inclusion in the album are now marked with green album badges.
      

Adding more photos to an album
As you add more images to your catalog, you may have new photos that you'd like to
            add to existing albums—an easy way to sort and organize a fresh import—or perhaps
            you're assembling a collection for a photo book over several work sessions.
         

1 With the Media Browser still filtered to show photos with keywords in the Primates
         category, right-click / Control-click the new album and choose Edit from the context
         menu. The Edit Album panel opens at the right.
      
2 Ctrl-click / Command-click to select the best three of the six photos featuring squirrel
         monkeys. Drag the selected photos into the Content pane in the Edit Album panel; then,
         click OK in the Taskbar.
      



 Tip
         
You can drag selected photos directly to an album's entry in the My Albums list, and
            vice versa, but using the Edit command has the advantage of providing the opportunity
            to rename the album, or to change its place in the list hierarchy.
         


3 If necessary, click Clear in the search results bar above the thumbnails to clear
         the Primates filter. You can now view all of the photos in your catalog. Click the
         Keyword/Info button at the right of the Taskbar to close the right panel group, if
         necessary.
      

4 Click the Monkey Business album in the My Albums list. Set the sorting order in the
         actions bar above the thumbnails grid to Album Order. Notice the counter in the top
         left corner of each image, denoting its order in the album.
      
5 Drag the thumbnails to rearrange their order in the album, alternating the photos
         of siamangs and squirrel monkeys. When you're done, click All Media in the actions
         bar above the thumbnail grid so that the Media Browser displays all of the photos
         in your catalog.
      

Creating albums from People, Places, and Events
In Lesson 2, you used the People, Places, and Events views as aids to organizing your
            catalog—and your effort is already paying off. Now you can take advantage of the search
            and filter aspects of those views to help find the photos you need.
         

1 Click People in the view picker at the top of the workspace; then, make sure you're
         in the Named people view. If necessary, click the Groups button () in the Taskbar to show the Groups panel at the right; then, expand the Family group.
         Expand the Kids group, and then click the listing for the Twins group to show only
         the People stacks for Pauline and Sophie.
      
2 Click the Sophie stack, and then click Photos below Sophie's stack thumbnail to display
         full photos, rather than just faces. Double-click the photo track to expand it to
         a grid view; then, Ctrl-click / Command-click to select the photos of the twins together
         without their sisters, and any images of Sophie alone.
      
3 In the Albums panel, click the green plus sign () (not the small arrow beside it) to the right of the My Albums header. In the New
         Album panel at the right of the workspace, name the new album Double Trouble; then, click OK in the Taskbar.
      



 Tip
         
This is a good demonstration of the advantages of grouping photos in albums, rather
            than relying on keywords alone; a People tags search in this case returns photos with
            Sophie together with any number of other people, whereas an album could isolate a
            subset made up of pictures of Sophie alone.
         


Your new album appears in the Local Albums list. The selected photos are marked with
         green album badges. If you don't see the badges, increase the thumbnail size.
      

4 Click the Back button in the actions bar to return to the Group view, and then click
         the Pauline stack to expand it. Ctrl-click / Command-click to select any images of
         Pauline alone and drag them directly to the Double Trouble album in the Albums list.
         The added photos are marked with green album badges.
      
You've successfully leveraged the People tags that you attached to your photos in
         Lesson 2 to perform a simple People search, making use of the various viewing modes
         in the People view to help locate the photos you needed for the new album.
      


 Tip
         
If you don't see the map or the pins (or Scotland), see the first few steps in "A short trip to the Places view" in Lesson 2.
         


5 Click Places in the view picker. In the Places view, double-click the northern map
         pin of the two pins positioned on Scotland to show the photos pinned at that location.
         Select all eighteen photos.
      
6 Click the Create New Album Or Album Category button () at the top of the left panel, making sure you click the button, not the small arrow
         beside it. In the New Album panel at the right of the workspace, type Highlands Hike as the name for the new album; then, click OK in the Taskbar below the panel.
      


 Tip
         
If you don't see the green album badge on completing step 7, increase the size of
            the thumbnails in the grid.
         


7 Click Back to return to the map view, and then double-click the southern pin. Select
         the image DSC_0330.jpg (a rear view of a Scotsman wearing a green kilt) and drag it
         to the newly created Highlands Hike album in the My Albums list. The selected photo
         is now marked with a green album badge.
      
8 Click Back to return to the map view, and then click Media in the view picker at
         the top of the workspace. In the Media view, click the Highlands Hike album in the
         Albums panel. The image count at the lower left of the workspace shows that the album
         contains nineteen photos—eighteen from a trip to the northwest coast of Scotland,
         and one shot in Edinburgh. You've just used the Places view to filter your catalog
         by location to find the photos for this album. Click All Media in the actions bar
         to return to an unfiltered view of your catalog.
      

9 Click Events in the view picker. In the Named events view, shift-click to select
         the event stacks NY Marathon 2010 and NY Marathon 2011; then, click the green plus
         sign () beside the My Albums header.
      
10 In the New Album panel, type Running New York as the name for the album. Before you click OK to create the new album, Ctrl-click
         / Command-click in the New Album panel's content pane to select three or four images
         that you'd like to exclude from the album, and then click the trash-can icon at the
         bottom of the panel to remove them. Click OK in the Taskbar.
      
The new Running New York album appears in the My Albums list in the left panel, grouping
         the marathon photos that you located by filtering for Events tags.
      



 Tip
         
If you're unable to re-order the photos in an album, check the Sort By setting at
            the left of the bar above the thumbnails grid. To customize the order of photos in
            an Album, the sorting order should be set to Album Order.
         


11 Click Media in the view picker. In the Media view, click each of the albums Double
         Trouble, Highlands Hike, and Running New York. If you wish, you can rearrange the
         order of the thumbnails in the grid for each of your newly created albums.
      
12 When you're done, click All Media in the actions bar to see the unfiltered contents
         of your catalog in the Media Browser.
      

Filtering and finding photos
         
In this lesson, you've begun to take advantage of the Organizer's search and filter
            capabilities—even while you've been concentrating on using it to mark and manage your
            images. Most of the search and filter tools are so well integrated into the Elements
            Organizer workspace that you're barely aware of using them.
         



 Tip
         
This is what's referred to as an "And" search: "Show me items that are in the Import
            1 folder and have a rating of three stars or higher."
         


At the start of this lesson you learned how to apply ratings to your photos. By the
         time you reached step 5, you had already performed a two-term search—with just two
         clicks. You filtered your catalog so that you could look at the images in a single
         folder (by choosing from the list in the left panel), and then refined the search
         to show only the photos with the highest ratings (by clicking a star in the actions
         bar).
      


 Tip
         
This is referred to as an "Or" search: "Show me any item that is tagged with this
            keyword or that one ... or any of these five."
         


In the next exercise, you tidied up your keywords list by dragging keyword tags into
         a hierarchy of categories and subcategories. This simple housekeeping task made it
         possible to find the images for the exercises that followed by running a seven-term search—this time with just one click! A single click on the Animals category
         filtered your catalog for all the images of birds, bison, elephants, giraffes, monkeys,
         seals, and siamangs—retrieving photos found in seven separate folders.
      

Finding people, places, and events
The first time you visited the Places, People, and Events views, you were learning
            how to sort and tag your photos. During the last exercise you discovered that each
            of these workspaces also serves as a filter, capable of presenting your images in
            a variety of different arrangements to help you locate the photos you're looking for.
            In this section, you'll take another look at finding people, places, and events.
         


Looking for somebody?
1 Click People in the view picker. You should be in the Named people view.
         


2 If you don't see stacks for all six people you tagged in Lesson 2, the People view
         is either displaying images of just one of the people in your catalog, or whatever
         people it can find in just a selected part of your catalog. To see all of the tagged
         people in the whole of your catalog, click the Back button or the All People button
         at the upper left.
      
3 To quickly skim through all the photos in any of your People stacks, move the pointer
         slowly across the stack thumbnail. Stop moving the pointer, and then right-click /
         Control-click whichever image is currently visible to see the commands that can be
         applied to the stack. Skim through each People stack.
      
Even the All People view is a search result—the stacks displayed are the answer to
         the question "What people are in my catalog?"
      
4 Click the Lilly stack to show all the images in the catalog tagged with Lilly's People
         tag. Toggle the setting below the stack thumbnail to shift between the Photos and
         Faces views. In the Faces view, hover over any of the face thumbnails to see the full
         photo from which the thumbnail was extracted.
      

5 Double-click either a face or full photo from Lilly's stack to see all the photos
         in the stack displayed in the thumbnail grid view. Double-click a photo in the grid
         view to see it enlarged in a single-image view. Click Grid, and then Back, in the
         Actions bar to return to the named people stacks.
      
Your catalog is still small, so there are not so many pictures of any of the people
         you've tagged, but as your photo library grows, you may see hundreds of photos of
         a given person in each stack. Scanning these thumbnails may be preferable to looking
         through every photo in your catalog, but it can still be daunting. You can effectively
         filter the view by selecting individual albums or folders as the image source.
      


 Note
         
When you skim the contents of a People stack with a single album or folder selected
            as the image source, rather than the entire catalog, remember that the photo that
            you set as the profile picture (the image you see at the top of the People stack)
            may not be present in that album or folder.
         


6 Note the image counts for the Pauline and Sophie stacks; then, click to select Double
         Trouble from the Albums list in the left panel. The image count drops, as this album
         contains only those images of each twin alone, or the pair without their parents or
         sisters. To see exactly which pictures of Pauline and Sophie are in this album, move the pointer slowly across
         each of the stack thumbnails.
      
7 Click each of the other albums to see who's inside; then, click All People at the
         left of the action bar above the stacks. Switch the left panel from the Albums list
         to Folders and click between the Import 3 and Import 4 folders. All six people appear
         in both of these folders (if you've tagged them correctly), but as you switch between
         the folders you'll notice that the image count for each stack changes. Click the All
         People button in the actions bar to deselect the current folder as the image source
         and see the image counts for the entire catalog.
      
The Groups mode provides yet another way to find and filter your photos in the People
         view.
      


 Note
         
All of the tagged people in your CIB catalog are included in groups. Once you're working
            with your own catalog, people that you've tagged but not added to any group will appear
            in the Ungrouped listing.
         


8 If you don't see the Groups panel at the right, click the Groups button () in the Taskbar; then, expand all the Family and Kids groups. Click down the Family
         hierarchy to the Twins listing. Note the image counts for each stack; then open the
         Albums pane at the left and select the Double Trouble album to filter the search.
         Click the Double Trouble album again to clear the filter.
      
To move a person from one group to another; simply drag her People stack to a different
         entry in the Groups list. To remove someone from a group, right-click/Control-click
         his stack, and choose Move To Ungrouped from the context menu.
      
9 Click All People at the top of the Groups panel; then, click Media in the view picker
         to return to a view of your entire catalog.
      

Finding people from the Media view
You can also work with your People tags in the Media view, making it quick and easy
            to leverage all that tagging and grouping to find the photos you want.
         


1 If necessary, click the Keyword/Info button at the far right of the Taskbar to open
         the right panel group.
      

2 In the Tags panel, expand the People Tags category; then, expand the Family group,
         and the two groups nested inside it.
      
3 Click the search box to the left of the Kids tag.
      
Depending on the accuracy of your face tagging and grouping, this search could return
         up to 23 photos. The search results bar above the thumbnails lists the Kids tag as
         the single search term.
      
4 Right-click / Control-click the Emma tag and choose Exclude From Search. The binoculars
         icon in Emma's search box is replaced by a barred circle and the number of images
         displayed in the Media Browser is reduced. The search results bar now lists the search
         terms: Kids, Emma.
      
5 Click the Clear button at the right of the search results bar to clear the filter.
      
6 In the People Tags list, click the search box for the Emma tag. The Media Browser
         should display up to eleven photos. Click the search box for the Sophie tag. The thumbnails
         in the grid are reduced to those images with both People tags. Click the search box
         for the Pauline tag; the search results bar lists the Emma, Sophie, and Pauline tags
         as search terms.
      
The search returns only images including all four girls; in other words, there are
         no photos of Emma together with Sophie and Pauline, but without Lilly.
      
7 Expand the Events Tags list and click the box beside the Annie's Wedding tag. The
         grid displays only three photos of all four girls taken on that occasion. Annie's
         Wedding has been added to the terms listed in the search results bar.
      

8 Click the Clear button in the search results bar to clear the filter.
      

Searching every place
Now you'll revisit the Places view to pin some more photos to the map before you do
            some searching by location.
         

1 Click Places in the view picker; then, click UnPinned in the bar below the view picker.
         The preview pane shows all the images in the catalog that do not yet have location
         information. Toggle the Group By Time option in the Actions bar to filter this simple
         search by date. Set the Number Of Groups to maximum.
      
2 Scroll down to the wedding pictures dated June 26, 2010. Click the checkmark beside
         the date to select all the photos in the group; then, click Add Location beside the
         header. In the Add A Location dialog, type martha's vi, and then press Enter / return. Click the location suggestion Martha's Vineyard,
         Massachusetts, USA, and then click Apply. In the Add A Sub-location dialog, type Martha's Vineyard, and then click Yes.
      

3 Reset the Number Of Groups to maximum, if necessary; then, locate and select the
         group dated July 15, 2012: photos of a Medieval Fair parade. Click Add Location and
         type Kaufbeuren in the Add A Location dialog; then, press Enter / return and accept the location
         Kaufbeuren, Germany. Click Apply.
      
4 Repeat the process to place the selection of photos shot on June 1, 2011 at the Los Angeles Zoo. Accept and apply the location, Zoo Dr, Los Angeles, CA 90027, USA. In the Add A
         Sub-location dialog, type Los Angeles Zoo, and then click Yes.
      


 Tip
         
At this zoom level, the two pins on Scotland will appear to merge; as will the Martha's
            Vineyard and New York pins.
         


5 Switch the Places view to Pinned mode; then zoom and pan the map to see all your
         pins from LA to Kaufbeuren.
      

6 Zoom the map until you see the marker on the East Coast of the US divide to show
         separate pins for the marathon images and the wedding photos. Hover over the Martha's
         Vineyard pin and use the arrows at the sides of the pin preview to see the images
         pinned to this location.
      
7 Double-click the preview image count to expand the location stack to the thumbnail
         grid where you can select photos, see them enlarged, tag faces, apply keywords, add
         captions, assemble albums, edit images, or view a slide show.
      

8 Click Media in the view picker to return to the Media Browser. In the Tags panel,
         collapse the Keywords and People Tags lists and expand the Places Tags pane. Collapse
         the Germany and United Kingdom tags and click the search box for the United States.
      
Every Places tag in the United States hierarchy is included in the search. The Media
         Browser displays all the images returned by this search.
      
9 Right-click / Control-click the search box for California and choose Exclude From
         Search from the context menu. The image count in the Media Browser drops.
      
10 Expand the People Tags list and the Family hierarchy nested inside. Click the search
         box for Kat, the mother in the group. The number of photos returned by the search
         has been narrowed to three—two from the wedding in Dukes County, and one shot before
         the start of the New York marathon.
      

11 Right-click / Control-click Tom's search box and choose Exclude From Search from
         the context menu. (Nothing against Tom, you understand; some of my best friends are
         Tom.) This search for all images captured in the US, but not from LA, that show Kat—but
         only without Tom—returns only two photos.
      

Looking for the right occasion
         
Let's see what you're missing in the Events view.

1 Click Events in the view picker. If the Events view is set to Suggested Events click
         Named in the actions bar to shift to the Named Events view. The grid displays an Event
         stack for each of the five Events you created in Lesson 2.
      
2 If you don't see the calendar, click the Calendar button () at the right of the Taskbar. The calendar's header currently reads "All Years,"
         indicating that the Events view is displaying all the Events in your catalog, regardless
         of their dates.
      


3 Click the All Years heading; the drop-down menu shows that your catalog contains
         Events from each year from 2010 to 2013. Choose 2013 from the menu. The Events view
         is now filtered to show only one named event, which takes place over a six-day period
         in May.
      
4 Click Suggested in the actions bar to shift to Suggested Events mode. Use the calendar
         menu to focus on 2013; then click the month of May on the calendar. Set the Number
         Of Groups slider to minimum. The photos are separated into two groups, captured over
         consecutive days, with a one-day break between them.
      

5 Select the group dated May 22-21, 2013; then, click Add Event. Name the Event Touring the Highlands; then, click OK. Choose Edit > Deselect, and then switch to the Named Events view
         to see the new named event stack.
      
The six-day Scottish Road Trip has not been split up; Suggested Events has merely
         enabled you to designate a subset based on grouped capture dates as an event in its
         own right. The Scottish Road Trip event still covers the original six-day period.
      

6 Switch to the Suggested Events view. With the calendar set to display All Years,
         increase the Number Of Groups to the maximum. Select the June 1, 2011 stack. Click
         Add Event and name the new event A trip to the zoo; then, click OK.
      
7 Choose Edit > Deselect. Choose 2011 from the calendar menu, and then click to focus
         on the month of June. Drag the Number Of Groups slider to a setting one stop less
         than the maximum, and then scroll down the preview pane.
      
This one-day event is now divided into clusters based on capture time. The suggested
         sub-events correspond to the different animals encountered during a walk around the
         zoo; four of the six sub-events are represented in the preview pane by stacks that
         you created earlier.
      

8 	Select the second group, click Add Event, and type Meeting the monkeys; then, click OK. Choose Edit > Deselect. Switch back from Suggested Events mode to
         the default Named Events view to see your new Event stacks.
      
9 	Move the pointer slowly across each new event stack in turn to see the images inside
         the events. For each new Event, stop the pointer when you see your favorite image;
         then, right-click / Control-click the image and choose Set As Cover to make this photo
         the cover photo.
      
10 Click Media in the view picker, and then expand the Events Tags pane in the Tags
         Panel. Click the search box for the event "A trip to the zoo;" then, select one of
         the spider monkey pictures. The Image Tags pane reveals that the photo is also part
         of the event "Meeting the monkeys."
      


11 Click All Media in the Actions bar to clear the search, and then click the search
         box for the six-day event "Scottish Road Trip." Select one of the lighthouse images;
         the Image Tags pane shows that the photo is also tagged with the two-day event, "Touring
         the Highlands." Click All Media to clear the search.
      

Using the Timeline to refine a search
         
The Timeline is an effective search tool in its own right, but you can also use it
            in combination with any of the other search and filter tools to help you to refine
            a search or to navigate the results. You might search for photos with a particular
            keyword tag, and then use the Timeline to narrow the search to the files from a particular
            import batch, or images captured within a specific date range.
         



 Note
         
The height of the bars indicates the relative number of files captured in each month.


1 Set the Sort By menu in the actions bar to Oldest; then, choose View > Timeline to
         show the timeline above the Media Browser. In this sorting order mode, the Timeline
         breaks your catalog down by capture date; you can see that your catalog contains images
         captured in six different years over a ten-year span, from the oldest entry in September
         2003, to the most recent in August 2013.
      

2 Click any of the bars in the Timeline, or drag the sliding frame; the thumbnails
         grid scrolls, if necessary, to show you the first image in the grid with a capture
         date that falls within that month.
      
3 Drag the markers at the ends of the timeline inwards to define a range of six or
         eight months. The grid now displays only the images captured in that period.
      

4 In the actions bar, set the Sort By option to Import Batch. The bars in the Timeline
         now represent import batches arranged in chronological order.
      


5 Click a bar in the Timeline; the view scrolls to show you the first image imported
         in that batch. In the grid, the photos are grouped under batch headers; select all
         the images in a batch by clicking the header. Hide the Timeline by choosing View >
         Timeline; then, reset the sorting order to show the oldest photos first. Choose Edit
         > Deselect.
      

Setting up a multiple-criteria search
         
In the course of this lesson, you've already made a few "And" and "Or" searches; these
            are multiple-criteria searches. Up to this point, you've achieved this by using a
            combination of filters applied via the folders, albums, and tags lists, with side
            trips to the People, Places, and Events views.
         

The Search view lets you set up a complex search with multiple filters—all on a single
         screen—and makes even single-criteria searches more visual and intuitive.
      
1 If necessary, clear any active filters and deselect any album or folder selected
         in the left panel by clicking click Back and/or All Media in the actions bar. Make
         sure that you have no images selected.
      
2 Click the Search button at the upper right of the Organizer workspace.
      



 Tip
         
In several earlier exercises, you used the Find > By Filename command to isolate photos
            with a given word in their filenames. In such cases, the menu command is preferable
            to a Search window text search, which may also return images tagged with Smart Tags
            that include the searched word. For example, a search for a series of files with the
            word "run" in their name would include any image that Photoshop Elements had automatically
            tagged with the words "run" and "running."
         


3 We'll start with a simple text search. Type the letter T in the text bar at the top of the search screen. Photoshop Elements shows a list
         of suggestions based on the people, places, events, and keyword tags that already
         exist in your catalog. Each kind of tag has a distinctive icon. In this case the search
         has found one keyword tag, one Event tag, two People tags (one of which represents
         a group), and five Smart Tags, which are generated automatically by Photoshop Elements.
      
4 Swipe over the letter T and type walk; then press Enter / Return. The search screen displays all of the photos with the
         Hill Walking keyword. The text bar shows your single search term. To the right of
         the word "Walk" in the text bar, type "- Lighthouse" (note the minus sign), and then press Enter / Return. The search results are reduced.
      
5 In the text bar, click on the minus sign between the two search terms and change
         this from a "Not" search (one that excludes one or more terms) to an "And" search. The search results grid new shows only those
         photos that have both the "Hill Walking" and "Lighthouse" keywords.
      

6 Click the Clear Search Button () at the right of the text search bar.
      
7 Hover the pointer over the Smart Tags icon, just below the text search bar. Scroll
         down through the list of tags that were automatically generated when Photoshop Elements
         analyzed the images at import. The list is not arranged alphabetically; it's more
         useful to scan the images for visual cues, rather than reading the words. Click one
         or two of the tags that show the highest image counts, clearing the search each time.
      
8 Move the pointer slowly down the column of search criteria icons, noting the way
         the People, Places, and Dates groups are presented. Click at least one group from
         each criteria to see the photos marked with that People, Places, or Events tag. Every
         click adds a term to the search bar; clear the search each time before testing the
         next criteria.
      

9 Hover over the Keywords icon and click the listings for the "Hill Walking" and "Lighthouse"
         tags. By default the two terms are separated in the search bar by the Or operator
         ( / ); click the forward slash between key-words to change this to an "And" search,
         as you did in step 5.
      
10 Inspect the Albums and Events groups without adding to the search terms, then move
         to the Ratings criteria and click the third star.
      

As you can see in the search bar, you've set up a search for those images that have
         both the "Hill Walking" and "Lighthouse" tags, and a rating of 3 or more stars.
      
11 Click the Clear Search Button () at the right of the text search bar.
      


Letting Photoshop Elements curate your photo collection automatically
Photoshop Elements 2018 introduces the new Auto Curate feature, which uses the same
            media analysis technology that enables Face Recognition, Smart Tags, and visual searches,
            to save you time and effort by curating your catalog automatically.
         
Auto Curate intelligently ranks the photos in your catalog—or the images in a selected
            folder, album, or search result—based not only on their quality as determined by the
            media analysis algorithms, but also on your own input as you sort your library using
            the tagging and grouping tools in the Organizer.
         
As well as prioritizing images that are well focused, with balanced color and lighting
            and useful Smart Tags, Auto Curate filters your catalog for the people that you've
            tagged most frequently and the pictures that you've included in albums, trips, and
            events­—automatically finding the best of those photographs that mean the most to
            you.
         
To have Photoshop Elements curate your photos automatically, first make sure that
            Face Recognition and Media Analysis are enabled in the Organizer preferences. Next,
            select an image source—either your entire unfiltered catalog, a particular folder
            or album, or the results of a more complex search made using any of the methods discussed
            in this lesson—then, click the checkbox at the right of the search bar above the thumbnail
            grid in the Media view to activate Auto Curate. Use the adjacent slider, or enter
            a number in the text box, to designate the number of images you wish Photoshop elements
            to choose for you.
         

Note: For best results with newly imported photos, allow Face Recognition and Smart
            Tag analysis to complete before using Auto Curate.
         



Saving complex searches
         
It's unlikely that the results of the search you set up would ever change, no matter
            how many photos you add to your library; the Scotland vacation and the walk in the
            Highlands are done.
         

However, when you set up a search with more generalized criteria, it can return more
         images each time new matches are added to the catalog.
      
1 In the Search screen, select the Family Trips tag (in the Keywords category), the
         Kids People tag (use a text search), and the United States tag (under Places). Set
         a rating of three stars or higher.
      
There are no photos in your catalog that match these criteria—but that may well change
         after the next school break. You can save this search and run it periodically to find
         the best shots to add to your happiest family album.
      
2 Click the Grid button to the left of the search bar; then, click Options at the right
         of the search result bar in the Media view and choose Save Search Criteria As Saved
         Search. In the Create Saved Search dialog box, name the saved search Best of Kids US Vacations, and then click OK.
      
3 Click the Back button in the actions bar to clear the three-term search; then, choose
         Find > By Saved Searches.
      



 Tip
         
To modify the criteria that define a saved search, and even change it from an "and"
            search to an "or" search, select the search in the Saved searches dialog box, and
            then click New Search Query.
         


4 Select your saved search in the Saved searches dialog box, and then click Open. The
         search results bar lists your saved search criteria. Click clear in the search results
         bar.
      

Finding photos by searching their metadata
Some metadata attached to an image file is generated automatically by the camera;
            more is added when you spend time organizing your ­catalog. Searchable metadata includes
            file attributes, tags, ratings, albums, version sets, captions, notes, capture date,
            and a range of camera model, lens, and exposure details—to mention just a few!
         

The Details (Metadata) search lets you leverage all that information to find exactly
         the files you want; run any search, and then filter for just the shots taken with
         a wide-angle lens.
      
1 Choose Find > By Details (Metadata). Choose the criteria you want from the menus
         provided. Any metadata search you define can be saved as a saved search by simply
         activating that option below the search rules. Set up a few search rules of your own,
         and examine the criteria menus to see the many searchable categories.
      
2 Click Cancel to dismiss the Find by Details (Metadata) dialog.
      

Finding photos by visual similarity
         
In Lesson 2, you saw how easy it is to tag the faces in large numbers of photos using
            People Recognition. In this section you'll look at another set of tools that harness
            the power of Photoshop Elements' automatic image analysis software.
         

1 In the Keywords list at the top of the Tags panel, click the checkbox to the left
         of the Animals keyword to isolate all the photos with that tag. Select all of the
         Stacks that you see in the grid and choose Edit > Stack > Unstack Photos. Choose Edit
         > Deselect, or simply click an empty part of the grid.
      
2 Choose Find > By Visual Searches > Visually Similar Photos And Videos.
      
3 Drag the image DSC_0609.jpg to the Find bar. If you see a warning that your catalog
         has not yet been fully indexed, click OK, Start Indexing.
      



 Note
         
The search results you see on screen may vary from those illustrated here, depending
            on your operating system.
         


The search returns images displayed in the Media Browser in descending order of visual
         similarity to the photo you dragged to the Find bar. A marker displaying the calculated
         percentage of visual similarity for each image appears in the bottom left corner of
         its thumbnail, and a slider appears at the Find bar for tweaking the search results.
         The optimum position for the slider will vary for each image searched.
      

4 Experiment with the Color / Shape slider. A move to the left weights the analysis
         towards similarities in color, texture, and pattern; moving the slider to the right
         returns images that share more in terms of shape, proportion, and composition.
      
5 Right-click / Control-click the thumbnail in the Find bar and choose Remove From
         Search. Make another image the object of a new search. Experiment with the Color-Shape
         slider, then repeat the process for several more images.
      
In some cases it may be helpful to add a second reference photo to your visual search.
         You can either drag a second image to the find bar, or click the plus sign (+) to
         the right of the first reference photo in the Find bar and select a second image from
         the Media Browser. The search will look for a combination of visual attributes.
      
6 Click Clear at the right of the actions bar; then, isolate the Animals photos again,
         as you did step 1.
      

Finding objects in photos
You can search your photo library for a specific object.

1 In the Media Browser, select the image DSC_0472.jpg, a photo of a Siamang.
      
2 Choose Find > By Visual Searches > Objects Appearing In Photos.
      

3 In the enlarged view, drag the bounding box to the ape's head. Use the handles at
         the corners of the bounding box to fit it neatly around the shape, and then click
         Search Object.
      
Once again, the results are ranked by similarity to the reference object. As for all
         visual searches, you can refine the search results by tweaking the Color-Shape slider.
      
4 When you're done, click the Back button at the left of the actions bar.
      

Finding and removing duplicate photos
The last of the visual search options finds and groups duplicated, or very similar
            images, and then gives you the opportunity to either stack them or delete them from
            your catalog—great for housekeeping as your image library gets bigger.
         



 Tip
         
The Duplicate Photos search can be particularly helpful for dealing with long series
            of photos captured with a camera set to the auto-bracketing or multi-burst mode.
         


The process is very similar to the automated stacking workflow (see "Stacking photos
         automatically" earlier in this lesson). You'll be presented with groups of similar
         photos; for each group, you can stack the photos and keep them in the catalog, confirm
         them for removal, or do nothing.
      
You can search an individual folder for duplicates, or run the search on a selection
         of images in the Media Browser. If there is no folder or album selected as the image
         source, no filter in operation, and no active selection in the media Browser, Photoshop
         Elements searches your entire catalog for duplicates.
      
Congratulations—you've reached the end of Lesson 3! In this lesson, you've created
         version sets, stacks, and albums, and discovered more techniques for finding and managing
         your files.
      


Review questions
1 Do you need to be in the Media view to add keyword tags to an image?
            


2 What are version sets and stacks?
      
3 What is the main difference between grouping files using shared keyword tags and
         grouping them in an album?
      
4 What is the purpose of the Timeline view?
      
5 Why would you save search criteria as a saved search?
      


Review answers
1 Though the Tags panel in the Media view offers the most keyword tagging options,
               you can add keywords to your photos in any of the other three Organizer views by typing
               in the text box in the Image Tags panel. To show the Image Tags panel in the People
               and Events views, you'll first need to expand a stack, and then click the Info button
               at the right of the Taskbar. In the Places view, the Info button is available at all
               times.
            


2 A version set automatically groups an original photo and its edited versions. Stacks
         can be created manually or automatically to group similar or related photos. A version
         set can be nested inside a stack: if you edit a photo that's in a stack, the photo
         and its edited copy are put in a version set nested inside the stack. Both version
         sets and stacks make it easier to locate photos by reducing the clutter in the thumbnail
         grid.
      
3 The main difference between grouping files in an album, rather than with a shared
         keyword tag, is that in an album you can rearrange the order of the files.
      
4 The Timeline is an effective search tool in its own right, but it's very useful in
         combination with other search and filter tools to help you to refine a search or to
         navigate the results. You might use the Timeline to narrow search results to files
         from a particular import batch, or images captured within a specific date range.
      
5 For many searches, you can easily "save" the results—in other words, preserve the
         grouping of images that match the search criteria—by creating an album or by tagging
         all the photos returned by the search with the same keyword, Place, or Event tag.
         Once established, these groupings are static; their content will not change over time
         unless you manually add or remove photos or tags. A saved search, on the other hand,
         can be more versatile; you can run the same complex search again and again, returning
         more images that match the search criteria each time you add photos to your catalog.
      







4. Image Editing Background & Basics


Lesson overview
Photoshop Elements offers a comprehensive suite of easy-to-use tools and a choice
            of three editing modes, so it's easy to achieve impressive results, whatever your
            experience level. Guided edit mode helps novices to learn as they work, Quick edit
            presents an array of one-touch controls for correcting common image problems, and
            Expert mode delivers all the power and sophistication experienced users expect.
         
This lesson begins with an overview of the core concepts behind image correction,
            and then introduces a range of quick and easy techniques to help you get more from
            your photos in just a few clicks:
         
• Making quick and easy edits in the Organizer
         
• Understanding the histogram, levels, and white balance
         
• Working in the Quick, Guided, and Expert edit modes
         
• Correcting an image using Smart Fix and Auto Smart Tone
         
• Turning frowns into smiles and opening closed eyes
         
• Applying editing presets selectively with the Smart Brush
         
• Working with camera raw images
         

You'll probably need between one and two hours to complete this lesson. If you haven't
            already done so, log in to your peachpit.com account to download the lesson files for this chapter, or follow the instructions
            under "Accessing the Classroom in a Book Lesson Files" in the Getting Started section
            at the beginning of this book.
         



Explore the many powerful and versatile editing tools that make it easy to get more
            from your photos in Photoshop Elements—even if you're a beginner. Start with a few
            of the easy-to-use, one-step image-correction features, and then experiment with some
            more advanced techniques, such as layering preset adjustments with the Smart Brush.
         



 Note
         
Before you start this lesson, make sure that you've set up a folder for your lesson
            files and downloaded the Lesson 4 folder from your Account page at www.peachpit.com, as detailed in "Accessing the Classroom in a Book Lesson Files" and "Creating a
            work folder" in the "Getting Started" section at the beginning  of this book. You
            should also have created a new work catalog (see "Creating a catalog for working with this book" in Lesson 1).
         



Getting started
You'll start by importing the sample images for this lesson to your CIB Catalog.

1 Start Photoshop Elements and click Organizer in the Welcome Screen. Check the lower
         right corner of the Organizer workspace to make sure the CIB Catalog is loaded—if
         not, choose File > Manage Catalogs and select it from the list.
      
2 Click the Import button at the upper left of the Organizer workspace and choose From
         Files And Folders from the drop-down menu. In the Get Photos And Videos From Files
         And Folders dialog box, locate and select your Lesson 4 folder. Disable the option
         Get Photos From Subfolders and the automatic processing options; then, click Get Media.
      
3 In the Import Attached Keyword Tags dialog box, click Select All; then, click OK.
      

Editing photos in the Organizer
You can fix a range of common image problems without even leaving the Organizer.


1 In the Media Browser, select the image DSCN0532.jpg. Click the Instant Fix button
         () in the Taskbar to open the image in Instant Fix mode, and then click the Light button
         () in the actions bar at the right.
      


 Tip
         
On a small screen, the entire range of an Instant Fix adjustment may be represented
            by only 7 preview thumbnails, where a larger screen may show 11; what you see on screen
            may differ from the illustrations.
         


2 Experiment with the slider; as you work, the original state of the image is indicated
         by a red marker. Drag the slider upwards from its original position about two thirds
         of the way to the top. Click Save at the lower right of the workspace, and then click
         Done.
      
The edited file is grouped with the original in a Version Set and will appear in the
         media browser as the top image.
      
3 Click the arrow at the right of the image frame to expand the Version Set. In the
         expanded Version Set, select the un-edited original, DSCN0532.jpg. Click the Instant
         Fix button () in the Taskbar; then, click the Color button () in the actions bar. Experiment with the slider; then, drag it upwards from its original
         position about two thirds of the way to the top. Click Save, and then click Done.
      


 Note
         
The most recent version always appears at the left in an expanded version set, and
            becomes the image displayed on top of the collapsed version set.
         


4 Making sure that you select the original image each time, repeat the process for
         the Clarity () and Smart Fix () adjustments, saving the results as you did in step 3. Drag the Clarity slider to
         its minimum setting to give the image a soft "dreamy" look. There is no slider for
         the Smart Fix edit; Smart Fix is a one-click tool that analyzes the image, and then
         combines multiple adjustments to correct exposure, contrast, color balance, and saturation
         automatically.
      
5 Double-click the original image to see it in the single image view. Use the left
         arrow key on your keyboard to compare the un-edited photo with the results of your
         single-click adjustments. Double-click the enlarged image to return to the thumbnail
         view. Select all four edited versions; then, right-click / Control-click any of the
         selected thumbnails and choose Delete Selected Items From Catalog.
      



 Tip
         
If you have a group of photos that all need to be cropped to the same size, or converted
            to antique sepia—or a series of shots from the same shoot that all require similar
            lighting adjust-ments, you can make your instant fixes to a multiple selection as
            quickly as you can work with a single image.
         


6 In the Confirm Deletion From Catalog dialog box, click to activate the option Also
         Delete Selected Item(s) From The Hard Disk; then, click OK. You'll use different techniques
         to edit this photo later in the lesson.
      
7 In the Media Browser, select the image DSC_3607.jpg, and then click the Instant Fix
         button (). Click the Light button (), and then, drag the slider up about half way to the top of its range. Click the
         Color button (); then, drag the slider down about half way to the bottom. Toggle the switch in the
         task bar to compare before and after views.
      
You've improved this photo dramatically in just a few moments—without even leaving
         the Organizer.
      

8 	Click the Back button () at the upper left of the Instant Fix workspace; then, click No in the Save Changes
         dialog. You'll work more with this photo in the next exercise.
      

Recognizing what your photo needs
         
For some photos, the instant fixes in the Organizer will be enough, but for more control—and
            access to the full power of Photoshop Elements editing tools—you'll work in the Editor.
            Before you explore the Editor's three working modes, we'll look at some of the basic
            concepts behind image adjustment and correction.
         

Recognizing and understanding a photo's problems and deficiencies makes the task of
         correcting and enhancing the image much faster and easier—even when you're simply
         choosing from automatic fixes as you did in the full screen view.
      
1 In the actions bar above the Media Browser, make sure that the Sort By order is set
         to Oldest. Ctrl-click / Command-click to select both of the photos that you've already
         worked with in this lesson; then add the image DSC_0212.jpg to the selection. Click
         the Editor button (not the arrow beside it) in the Taskbar.
      


 Note
         
The first time you launch the Editor, it opens in Quick edit mode; after that, it
            will reopen to whichever edit mode was active when you last exited the application.
         



2 If you're not already in Expert edit mode, click Expert in the mode picker at the
         top of the Editor workspace; then, choose Window > Reset panels.
      

3 Click the arrow beside the More button () at the right of the Taskbar and choose Histogram from the menu.
      



 Note
         
The triangular alert icon will reappear on the histogram each time you change an image;
            click the icon to refresh the graph.
         


4 If necessary, change the Channel setting in the Histogram panel from the default
         Colors to RGB; then, click the triangular alert icon () at the upper right of the black and white Histogram curve to refresh the histogram
         graph with un-cached information.
      

Understanding the histogram
A histogram is a graph that maps the distribution of tonal values in an image, from
            the shadows (at the left end of the curve), through the midtones, to the highlights
            (at the right of the curve).
         

A peak in the curve shows that the corresponding part of the tonal range is well represented—in
         other words, the image contains plenty of detail in that area. Inversely, a trough
         in the histogram curve can indicate a deficiency of image detail.
      
You can use the ­histogram both as a "diagnostic" tool that can help you recognize
         where corrections need to be made, and also as a source of dynamic feedback that enables
         you to assess how effective an adjustment will be, even as you set it up.
      
1 If you don't see the Photo Bin at the bottom of the Editor workspace, click the Photo
         Bin button () in the Taskbar.
      



 Tip
         
Refresh the histogram for each image as it becomes active.


2 Watch the curve in the Histogram panel as you click each of the thumbnails in the
         Photo Bin in turn to bring that image to the front in the Edit pane.
      


This histogram is heavily weighted towards the left and deficient in the midtones;
            the image is overly dark, with a lack of tonal depth and definition in the girl's
            face.
         



With plenty of information at the ends of the curve, the overall contrast is good,
            but the central trough indicates a lack of midtone detail that gives the shaded skin
            a dull, underexposed look.
         



The histogram for this photo shows almost no information at either end and a somewhat
            lopsided spread of midtones. The image lacks contrast; it appears flat and slightly
            overexposed.
         

3 For each of the photos that you've already worked with, click the thumbnail in the
         Photo Bin to bring the image window to the front; then, choose Enhance > Adjust Smart
         Fix. Watch the image and its histogram change as you drag the Fix Amount slider to
         set a value of 60% (for Auto Smart Fix, the value is 40%). Click OK to close the Adjust
         Smart Fix dialog box.
      


The changes in the images are reflected in their histograms (shown here with the original
            curves overlaid in gray for comparison). In both cases there is more information in
            the midtone range, boosting detail and definition in skin tones, and a better spread
            of tones from dark to light, improving the overall contrast.
         

4 Bring the image DSC_3607.jpg to the front and choose File > Save As. Name the new
         file DSC_3607_AutoSmart.jpg, to be saved to the My CIB Work folder and included in the Organizer, but not in
         a Version Set. Click Save; then, click OK to accept the JPEG quality setting and close
         the file. Repeat the process for the image DSCN0532.jpg, making sure to add _AutoSmart to the file name.
      

Adjusting levels
Once you're familiar with the histogram, the Levels dialog box provides a very direct
            way to adjust the distribution curve in order to improve an image's tonal range.
         

1 You should still have the photo DSC_0212.jpg open from the previous exercise. Choose
         Enhance > Adjust Lighting > Levels. In the Levels dialog box, make sure that the Preview
         option is activated.
      

In the Levels dialog box, you can use the shadows, midtones, and highlights sliders
         below the Input Levels histogram graph (left, middle, and right respectively), or
         the Set Black Point, Set Gray Point, and Set White Point eyedroppers at the right,
         to redefine the end points of the curve and adjust the distribution of image information
         along its length.
      
Although the midtones range is most in need of adjustment in this image, it's important
         to get the shadows and highlights right first.
      
5 Select the Set Black Point Eyedropper tool; then, watch the histogram as you click
         the dark area in the lower left corner of the image. The white line and gray area
         in the histogram indicate the shape of the curve prior to this adjustment.
      

The black point eyedropper has not worked well on our lesson photo; it should ideally
         be used to sample a black area, rather than a colored shadow. The deeper shadows have
         been "clipped" to black and the color has become much cooler as the warm hues have
         been removed to produce a pure black at the sampled point.
      
3 In the Levels dialog box, click Reset and we'll try another method for adjusting
         the shadows. Hold down the Alt / Option key as you drag the shadows slider to the
         right to set a value of 70: just inside the left-hand end of the tonal curve. The
         clipping preview shows you where the darkest parts of the image are.
      

4 Watch the histogram as you release first the Alt / Option key, and then the mouse
         button. The histogram curve shifts to the left—possibly a little too much. You can
         see that the left end of the curve has become truncated. In the Levels dialog box,
         use the shadows slider to reduce the value to 45. The curve in the histogram is adjusted
         so that there is minimal truncation (clipping).
      
5 Hold down the Alt / Option key; then, drag the highlights slider to 185. The clipping
         preview begins to show significant clipping of image detail in the brighter parts
         of the photo, as shown in the illustration below. Correct the adjustment by dragging
         the highlights slider back to 195, where the clipping is minimal; then release the
         Alt / Option key and the mouse button.
      

6 In the Levels controls, drag the midtone slider (the gray triangle below the center
         of the graph) to the right to set the midtone value to 0.8.
      



 Tip
         
Your edits have caused some gaps and spikes in the histogram curve. Where possible,
            avoid adjustments that create large gaps; even if the image still looks good on screen,
            gaps indicate a loss of image data that may be apparent as color banding when printed.
         


7 In the Histogram panel, click the yellow alert icon to refresh the display.
      

8 Compare the original histogram (the red overlay) to the adjusted curve. Information
         has spread outwards, widening the midtone range as well as filling out both the highlights
         and shadows.
      
9 Click OK to close the Levels dialog box. Select Edit > Undo Levels, or press Ctrl+Z
         / Command+Z to see how the image looked before editing. Choose Edit > Redo Levels,
         or Press Ctrl+Y / Command+Y to reinstate your corrections.
      

10 Choose File > Save As. Name the new file DSC_0212_Levels.jpg and set your Lessons / My CIB Work folder as the destination. Activate the option
         Include In The Elements Organizer and disable Save In Version Set With Original. Click
         Save; then click OK to accept the JPEG settings. Choose File > Close.
      

Assessing a photo's color balance
         
Artificial light, unusual shooting conditions, and incorrect camera settings can all
            result in unwelcome color casts in an image. Unless your camera is properly set up
            to compensate for current weather conditions, photos shot on an overcast day may have
            a flat, bluish cast due to a deficiency in the warmer colors, while the "golden" light
            of late-afternoon sunshine can produce an overly warm appearance. Fluorescent lighting
            is notorious for producing a dull, greenish tint.
         

In this exercise, you'll work with an image that has the opposite problem: a warm
         yellow-red cast commonly seen in indoor shots captured under tungsten lighting. We'll
         start with a look at the Balance controls in the Quick edit mode.
      
1 To switch to Quick edit mode, click Quick in the mode above the editing pane. In
         Quick edit mode, choose Window > Reset panels.
      
2 Choose File > Open. Navigate to your Lesson04 folder; then, select the image DSC_0241.jpg,
         and click Open.
      


3 In the Adjustments panel at the right of the Quick edit workspace, expand the Balance
         panel. Color imbalances are defined in terms of an image's temperature and tint; the Balance panel has a separate control pane for adjusting each of these attributes.
         For now, make sure that the Temperature tab is selected just below the panel's header.
      
The grid of preview thumbnails shows the full range of variation possible with this
         control. Clicking the central thumbnail resets an image to its original state—a blue
         frame highlights the currently selected setting.
      
4 Move the pointer over each preview thumbnail in the grid in turn to see that level
         of adjustment applied temporarily to the image in the work area. A white frame highlights
         the setting currently previewed.
      


 Tip
         
You can preview and apply incremental settings between the levels represented in the
            preview thumbnails by dragging the slider left or right.
         


5 Click the Tint tab above the slider control and explore the variations.
      


The color temperature of an image accounts for casts ranging from cool blue to hot
            orange- red; "tint" refers to casts ranging from yellow-green to magenta-pink.
         


Working with the Temperature and Tint settings
         
If you're new to color correction, the preview thumbnails provide a useful visual
            reference for understanding what's behind an unwanted color cast. Before we take a
            closer look at the issue in the Expert edit mode, you can correct this photo using
            the Balance controls and save the results for comparison to other techniques.
         

1 In the Temperature pane, click the preview to the left of the central thumbnail.
      

2 Switch to the Tint pane. Move the pointer over the preview to the right of the central
         thumbnail. For the Tint controls, moving by one preview in this direction increases
         the value by an increment of 25—a little too far for our lesson photo. Instead, drag
         the slider to set a value of 2, or click the number itself and type a new value of
         2.
      
3 Choose File > Save As. Activate the option Save As A Copy. Name the copy DSC_0241_QuickBalance.jpg, to be saved to your My CIB Work folder, and included in the Organizer, but not in
         a Version Set; then, click Save. Click OK to accept the default JPEG quality settings.
      

4 In the Adjustments panel header, click the Reset Image button to reset all the controls,
         reverting the image to its original state.
      

Consulting the color histogram
Let's see what the histogram has to say about this photo.

1 Click Expert in the mode picker at the top of the Editor workspace.
      

2 If the Histogram panel is not already open, choose Window > Histogram. If necessary,
         set the Channel menu at the top of the Histogram panel to Colors.
      
The histogram corroborates the visual evidence: this photo has a serious imbalance
         in the spread of color information. Rather than a largely unified curve, there is
         a very marked separation of colors; reds and yellows are over-represented in the upper
         midtones and highlights, while greens and blues are lacking.
      
In the next exercise, you'll learn how to correct a color cast by adjusting the photo's
         white balance—or redefining the white point, to re-calibrate the image's color.
      

Adjusting the white balance
         
A color cast has the appearance of a tinted transparency overlaid on all the colors
            in your photograph. For example, the yellow-red cast commonly associated with indoor
            shots captured under tungsten lighting will be visible even on objects that should
            appear white, and even white paper photographed under fluorescent lighting will have
            a blue-green tint.
         

To adjust the white point, or white balance, you need to identify what should be a
         neutral tone in your photo—either a white object, or an area of gray that should appear
         neither noticeably cool nor warm. Photoshop Elements will then recalculate the color
         values across the entire image in relation to whatever pixels you've defined as the
         new, color-neutral benchmark.
      

1 Choose Enhance > Adjust Color > Remove Color Cast. The Remove Color Cast dialog box
         appears, and the pointer becomes an eye-dropper cursor ().
      
2 Click with the eyedropper to sample a mid-gray from the mortar between the bricks
         in the background. If this introduces an overly cool blue cast, click the Reset button
         in the Remove Color Cast dialog box and try again. Try targeting a lighter tone.
      
3 When you're satisfied with the results, click OK to close the Remove Color Cast dialog
         box.
      
4 Examine the color histogram. The histogram curve is much more balanced, though the
         photo could still be improved. For now, save the corrected image as DSC_0241_WhiteBalance.jpg, with all the usual settings; then, close the file.
      


Although blue and cyan are still predominant in the lower midtones, the histogram
            curve is now more unified, without the dramatic separation of colors you saw earlier.
         



Making easy color and lighting adjustments
In this section, we'll begin our exploration of the Editor, taking a closer look at
            the tools and techniques that will enable you to get the best from your photos. Now
            that you've soaked up a little theory, you'll find it easier to understand the processes,
            whether you're using one-click fixes, or making detailed selective edits.
         

Whether the problem is inadequate exposure, a lack of contrast, or an unsightly color
         cast, you can make fast fixes using the simple controls in Quick Edit mode, let the
         Guided Edit mode step you through a wide range of editing tasks, make detailed adjustments
         in Full Edit mode—or even arrange for Photoshop Elements to batch-process your photos,
         applying your choice of automatic corrections.
      

Fixing photos automatically in batches
In this exercise, you'll batch process all of the image files used in this lesson,
            saving the auto-adjusted photos as copies so that you can compare the results of the
            automatic processing to the edits you make using other techniques.
         

1 If the Editor is not still in Expert mode, click Expert in the mode picker. Choose
         File > Process Multiple Files. In the Quick Fix options, at the upper right of the
         Process Multiple Files dialog box, click the check boxes to activate all four auto-fix
         options: Auto Levels, Auto Contrast, Auto Color, and Sharpen.
      
2 At the upper left of the dialog box, choose Folder from the Process Files From menu.
         Under Source, click the Browse button. Locate and select the Lesson 4 folder as the
         source folder for the images to be processed. Click OK / Choose. Under Destination,
         click Browse to set the My CIB Work folder as the destination for the processed copies.
      
3 Under File Naming, activate the Rename Files option. Choose Document Name from the
         menu on the left, and then type _AutoFix in the second field. This will add the appendix "_AutoFix" to the existing document
         names as the processed copies are saved.
      



 Note
         
For Windows users: ignore any alert warning that files could not be processed. This
            is caused by a hidden system file and will have no impact on the success of your project.
         


4 Review the settings in the dialog box. Make sure that the resizing and file conversion
         options under Image Size and File Type are disabled, and then click OK.
      
Photoshop Elements opens, processes, and closes the images. The newly created copies
         are automatically tagged with the same keywords as the source files.
      

Adding the auto-corrected files to your catalog
When you modify an image in the Editor, the Include In Organizer option in the Save
            and Save As dialog boxes is activated by default. However, when you batch-edit files
            with the Process Multiple Files command, this option isn't part of the process—you
            must add the automatically edited copies to the Organizer manually.
         

1 Switch to the Organizer by clicking the Organizer button () in the Taskbar; then, click the Import button at the upper left of the Organizer
         workspace and choose From Files And Folders from the drop-down menu.
      
2 In the Get Photos And Videos From Files And Folders dialog box, locate and open your
         My CIB Work folder. Ctrl-click / Command-click or marquee-select all the files with
         the suffix "_AutoFix." Disable any automatic processing option that is currently active;
         then, click Get Media.
      
3 In the Import Attached Keyword Tags dialog box, click Select All; then, click OK.
         The files are imported to your CIB Catalog and displayed in the Media Browser. Click
         the Back button () to display all the images in your catalog.
      

Correcting photos in Quick Edit mode
In Quick Edit mode, Photoshop Elements conveniently groups easy-to-use controls for
            the most common basic image correction operations in the Adjustments panel.
         

Earlier in this lesson, you tried some one-click fixes in the Organizer's Instant
         Fix panel. Later, you applied a combination of the same automatic fixes while batch-processing
         files. The Adjustments panel presents similar automatic adjustment options, but also
         gives you the opportunity to preview and fine-tune the settings.
      



 Note
         
In this illustration, the Lesson 04 tag icon has been customized: you may see a different
            thumbnail.
         


1 You should still be in the Organizer from the last exercise. If you don't see the
         right panel group, click the Keyword/Info button at the far right of the Taskbar.
         If you don't see the list of keywords, click the Tags tab at the top of the right
         panel. Expand the Imported Keyword Tags category; then, either double-click the Lesson
         04 tag or click the empty search box at the left.
      
2 Select the original photo of the colored perfume bottles, DSC_2474.jpg, making sure
         not to confuse the un-edited file with the AutoFix copy; then, click the Editor button
         ()—not the arrow beside it—in the Taskbar.
      
3 Use the mode picker to switch the Editor to Quick mode. If you don't see the Adjustments
         panel at the right, click the Adjustments button in the Taskbar.
      

Applying quick fixes
All of the Quick Edit adjustments have manual controls. Automatic fixes are available
            for Smart Fix, Lighting, Color, and Sharpen, but not for Exposure or Balance.
         



 Note
         
Smart Fix is a combination of several adjustments; it corrects overall color balance
            and improves shadow and highlight detail.
         


1 Choose Before & After - Horizontal from the View menu above the Edit pane. In the
         Adjustments panel, expand the Smart Fix pane and click the Auto button. Notice the
         immediate effect on the image in the After view.
      
2 Expand the Lighting pane, and then click both Auto Levels and Auto Contrast, noting
         the effects of the adjustments in the After view.
      
3 Expand the Color pane and click the Auto button; then expand the Exposure pane and
         drag the slider to set a value of 0.7.
      

4 Choose File > Save As. In the Save As dialog box, type DSC_2474 _QuickFix as the name of the new file, to be saved to your My CIB Work folder in JPEG format
         and included in the Organizer but not as part of a Version Set. Click Save. In the
         JPEG Options dialog box, accept the default quality and click OK.
      



 Tip
         
Click a thumb-nail in the preview grid to apply that level of adjustment; then, use
            the slider to fine-tune the effect. The preview grids not only provide an intuitive
            editing interface, but also serve as a great way to learn the effects of the various
            adjustment controls as you work with them.
         


5 Expand the Color pane once again and click the Saturation tab. A grid of preview
         thumbnails shows the range of variation possible with the Saturation slider. A blue
         frame highlights the central thumbnail, which represents the image in its current
         state. Move the pointer slowly over each thumbnail in the grid to preview your image
         with that level of saturation in the work area.
      
6 Repeat the process for the Color pane's Hue and Vibrance controls.
      

7 Return to the Lighting pane and explore the Shadows, Midtones and Highlights tabs
         in the same way. To reset a control, click the thumbnail with the Reset icon (not
         always the central preview).
      

8 To discard any changes you've made and revert the image to its last saved state,
         click the Reset Image button in the header of the Adjustments pane.
      
9 Choose File > Close. Don't save any changes.
      


Adding quick effects, textures and frames
In Quick edit mode, the Effects, Textures, and Frames panels present a range of one-click
            choices that make it easy to add a creative touch to your photos. You can access these
            three panels by choosing from the buttons at the right of the Taskbar.
         
The Effects (fx) panel offers instant photo effects, which simulate nostalgic camera and film looks,
            a range of color, black-and-white, and duotone photo processing styles, and sketch
            and lithographic treatments that can turn even a boring snapshot into a work of art.
            The Effects panel also hosts the Smart Looks feature, which presents effect suggestions
            tailored to suit the image you're working with.
         
Choose from the Textures panel to give the surface of your photo the look of a peeling
            paint, soft canvas, or pitted chrome. Other textures are applied with a colored pattern
            overlay. Add a frame to make your image really stand out. The Frames panel presents
            choices from simple graphic photo-print borders to the 3D, photographic look of the
            Aged, Scrapbook, and Flowers And Buttons frames.
         

You can scale, rotate, or move a photo inside its frame without leaving Quick edit
            mode. If you prefer to have more control over the way the effects and textures are
            applied to your image, you can take it into Expert mode, where each effect and texture
            has its own layer and layer mask. You can modify the opacity and blending mode for
            each layer, or edit its layer mask to create areas in the photo where the effect or
            texture is reduced or removed entirely.
         




Turning a frown into a smile
If your family album includes pictures of a tired toddler, temperamental teens, a
            furious fianée, or a grumpy grandfather, Photoshop Elements can help you cheer them
            up! The Adjust Facial Features tool makes it easy to turn a frown upside down, widen
            squinting eyes, and tweak other facial features—so that everyone in your photos looks
            their best.
         
The Adjust Facial Features tool makes use of face-aware technology to identify the
            faces in your photo, and then lets you adjust a variety of attributes for the eyes,
            nose, lips, forehead, and jaw. You'll find the Adjust Facial Features command in the
            Enhance menu in both the Quick edit mode and Expert mode.
         

This image needed two passes with the Adjust Facial features tool; this guy has a
            heart of stone.
         



Working in Guided Edit mode
         
If you're a newcomer to digital image editing, and you're not sure exactly what adjustments
            an image needs, the Guided Edit mode is a great place to start. You'll find a range
            of procedures for correcting lighting and exposure, each with easy-to-follow prompts
            and instructions that make it simple for even a novice to get great results. You can
            improve your photos quickly, at the same time as learning image correction concepts
            and techniques that you can apply even in Expert mode.
         



 Note
         
For help with some of the common problems you might encounter as you try the more
            advanced tasks in Photoshop Elements, refer to the section "Why won't Photoshop Elements
            do what I tell it to do?" in Lesson 5.
         


1 If necessary, switch to the Editor. Click Guided in the mode picker at the top of
         the workspace, and then select the Basics category.
      
The Basics category offers solutions for many of the most common image problems, from
         guided Brightness And Contrast, Levels, and Lighten And Darken adjustments to fix
         lighting and exposure issues, to procedures for sharpening, cropping, straightening,
         or resizing your photos. You'll use two of these later in this lesson.
      


2 The guided procedure previews are interactive; hover the pointer over each preview
         in turn and move slowly back and forth to see before and after views for the respective
         adjustment.
      
3 Explore each of the other categories. You'll use a procedure from the Color category
         later in this section, and another in Lesson 6. The Black & White category includes
         not only straight color-to-greyscale conversions, but also a number of mixed effects
         that let you preserve the color in part of your image while applying a black and white
         treatment elsewhere. You'll try several of the Fun Edits effects in Lesson 7, and
         four of the Photomerge projects in Lesson 8. Several categories offer guided versions
         of procedures you'll perform in other Editor modes.
      

Guided color correction
         
The Color category in the Guided edit mode offers two creative film-style color treatments—the
            Lomo Camera and Saturated Film effects—and two procedures for technical color correction.
         


In Lesson 6, you'll use the Remove A Color Cast adjustment to balance a photo that
         was shot under fluorescent lighting. The Remove A Color Cast edit is a one-step procedure
         with the single function of correcting an image's white point or white balance—a concept you learned about earlier in this lesson. In this exercise, you'll use
         the Enhance Color treatment, which applies a broader color correction, combining several
         adjustments to not only balance, but also boost, and brighten color.
      
For this exercise, you'll work once again with the image of the old perfume bottles,
         which has an obvious color cast as a result of inadequate artificial lighting.
      
1 Click the Open button (not the arrow beside it) at the upper left of the Editor workspace.
         Locate your Lesson 4 folder and open the image DSC_2474.jpg.
      
2 Launch the Enhance Color adjustment from the Color category in Guided edit mode.
         Use the View menu at the left of the bar above the Edit pane to switch to the Before
         & After - Horizontal view; then, choose View > Fit On Screen.
      
In the Guided edit mode, the Zoom and Hand tools are the only items in the toolbar;
         everything you'll need for whichever editing task you chose is presented in the panel
         at the right.
      
3 Click the Auto Fix button twice to correct the color and contrast; the photo improves dramatically. For photos with
         less extreme problems, a single click produces satisfactory results.
      

4 In the Enhance Colors pane, drag the Hue slider to the left to set a value of -32.
      

All the colors in the image are shifted along the spectrum: the red bottle becomes
         purple, the blue-green glass is warmed to yellow-green, the orange bottle turns red,
         and the violet-blue reflections in the clear glass are shifted to cyan.
      
5 Set the Saturation value to 40, and the Lightness to 10. The new colors become more vibrant, but the overall contrast is still inadequate.
      

6 Click Next at the lower right; then, click Done. Switch to the Basics category, and
         then click Lighten And Darken. Drag the Shadows slider to 33 to retrieve detail in the dark bottle caps and bases; then set the Midtones to 100 to increase contrast by shifting the tonal spread. Click Next; then, click Save As.
      

7 Name the file DSC_2474_EC-LD (for Enhance Colors, Lighten And Darken) and save it to the My CIB Work folder with
         all the usual settings. In the JPEG Options, set the Quality to 10; then, click OK.
         Choose File > Close.
      

Resizing photos made easy
         
For many of us, resizing an image can be confusing. When we share to social networking
            sites or by email from our mobile devices, the work is done for us, behind the scenes—but
            when we need to scale a photo to meet specific requirements, the Image > Resize command
            presents us with an array of options for dimensions, file size, resolution, and resampling
            that can be difficult for a novice to understand.
         

In the Guided Edit mode, the Resize Your Photo project makes the task easy, stepping
         you quickly through the process of scaling an image to meet specific size requirements,
         whether they're given in pixels, inches, or bytes.
      
1 In the Organizer, use the Keywords list to find all the images tagged with the Lesson
         04 keyword. Select the edited photo DSC_3607_AutoSmart.jpg; then, click the Editor
         button () in the Taskbar.
      

2 If the Editor is not still in Guided mode, switch modes now, and then select the
         Basics category. Click the preview to launch the Resize Your Photo procedure.
      

3 In the panel at the right, choose the Web output option. Choose File Size from the
         size options menu. Our lesson file is 2.7 MB on disk; to reduce it to just under 1
         MB, type 1000 in the "Size <" box. Use the other size options when you need to specify the dimensions
         in pixels; if you set the length of one edge, the other is automatically adjusted
         to maintain the aspect ratio. The correct resolution for the Web is set automatically.
      
4 Click Apply; the new file size is displayed below the resizing controls. It's that
         easy! For now, click the Reset button to cancel the resize-for-Web process without
         leaving the Resize Your Photo panel.
      


 Note
         
When you resize an image for print with the Shrink To Fit option activated, the saved
            output file will include the white areas that you see in the resizing preview.
         


5 Under Select An Output Option, click the Print button. From the size options menu,
         choose Width & Height. Type 6.9 in both the W (Width) and H (Height) boxes; then click Preview. The photo is cropped
         to fit the square aspect ratio. Click the Cancel button () on the preview image; then, repeat the process with the Shrink To Fit option activated.
         Click Apply. The photo is scaled so that it fits the specified dimensions without
         cropping.
      

Our lesson image has a 4x6 aspect ratio, so all of the predefined size options, except
         4 x 6 inch, will result in cropping unless the Shrink To Fit option is activated.
      
6 Click the Reset button and choose "8 x 10 in" from the size options menu; then, click
         Preview. Drag to the left in the preview window to adjust the crop, and then click
         the green Commit button (). Click Next at the lower right and inspect the options available. For now, close
         the file without saving.
      

Working with Auto Smart Tone
         
The Auto Smart Tone feature provides a highly intuitive way to make the most of your
            photos with just a few clicks. Even if you begin with no clear idea of what adjustments
            an image needs, the Auto Smart Tone dialog box provides visual clues and simple controls
            that make the process easy.
         



 Note
         
The Enhance > Auto Smart Tone command is available in both Quick and Expert modes
            in the Editor.
         


Called "smart" for a good reason, the Auto Smart Tone feature uses "intelligent" algorithms
         to analyze and correct an image automatically—and then actually learns from whatever
         adjustments you make.
      
Auto Smart Tone begins by comparing your image to a database drawn from hundreds of
         images of all types; then references information about how those images were corrected
         by different photographic professionals in order to calculate an automatic adjustment
         that is uniquely suited to the particular photo you're editing. Auto Smart Tone adjustments
         combine corrections to different aspects of both tone and color, depending on the
         deficiencies of the image at hand.
      
1 In the Organizer, isolate the photos for this lesson, if necessary, by clicking the
         Lesson 4 folder in the list at the left, or the search box beside the Lesson 04 tag
         in the Tags panel. Select the un-edited images DSC_3607.jpg, DSCN0532.jpg, DSC_0212.jpg,
         and DSC_0241.jpg; then, click the Editor button in the Taskbar.
      



The Auto Smart Tone dialog box opens with the automatic adjustment pre-applied. In
            the center is a "joystick" control that can be dragged in any direction: a preview
            in each corner shows what to expect from dragging in that direction. For this photo,
            the upper left preview is dark, low-contrast, and saturated; the thumbnail at the
            lower left is also dark, but has more contrast and less saturated color. At the right,
            the upper preview is brighter, with more neutral colors; the lower is even brighter,
            with more contrast.
         

2 In the Editor, click Expert in the mode picker at the top of the workspace to switch
         to Expert edit mode; then bring the image DSC_0241.jpg to the front, if necessary,
         by clicking its name tab at the top of the Edit window. Choose Auto Smart Tone from
         the Enhance menu to open the Auto Smart Tone dialog.
      

3 Click the upper-right preview—the closest to a technically balanced solution; the
         joystick control moves to the limit of its range in that direction. Click and hold
         the control pin; a reference grid appears. Drag the control pin downwards by three
         grid divisions to increase the color saturation, and two squares left to deepen the
         shadows.
      
4 Toggle the Before / After switch at the lower left of the dialog box to see the photo
         with and without the Auto Smart Tone adjustment.
      
5 Click OK, and then repeat the process from step 2 for each of the other three open
         images. If you're unsure, drag the joystick left to right and top to bottom to become
         accustomed to the effects; then, refer to the illustrations below as a rough guide.
         Start from the points indicated, and then season to taste. Leave the last photo open
         in the Auto Smart Tone dialog box and read on.
      

As you tweak the automatic adjustment, Auto Smart Tone learns from your actions. Each
         time you use the feature, your adjustments are recorded, and then taken into consideration
         when Smart Tone is calculating a solution for the next photo. Over time, Auto Smart
         Tone remembers whether you tend to favor a high-contrast, color-saturated look or
         dreamy, high-key treatments and begins to tailor its automatic adjustments accordingly
         for similar images.
      



 Tip
         
Once you're comfortable with Auto Smart Tone, you can hide the corner thumbnails for
            a clear view of your photo. You can also disable learning for the current image.
         


6 Click the small menu icon () at the lower left of the Auto Smart Tone dialog box to see the options available.
         For now, leave both options activated. Click OK to confirm your adjustment and return
         to the Editor.
      
If you feel that Auto Smart Tone may be picking up your beginner's bad habits, you
         can reset the learning feature on the General tab in Preferences.
      
7 For each of the four images, choose Save As; then add the suffix _SmartTone to the filename and save a JPEG file to your work folder, to be included in the Organizer,
         but not in a Version Set. When you're done, choose File > Close All.
      

Opening closed eyes
         
We have all had a promising group shot or portrait spoiled by closed eyes. Until now,
            the solution has been to replace the person with their eyes closed by combining shots
            using the Photmerge Group Shot tool, which you'll use in Lesson 8.
         

In Photoshop Elements 2018, Adobe has addressed this very common problem by introducing
         the Open Closed Eyes tool, which can do the job in just a few clicks.
      
1 In the Organizer, right-click / Control-click the un-edited image DSCN0555.jpg and
         choose Edit With Photoshop Elements Editor from the context menu. In the Editor, use
         the picker above the work area to switch to Quick edit mode.
      


 Tip
         
The Open Closed Eyes command is also available in the Eye Tool options in Expert mode,
            and in the Enhance menu in both Quick and Expert mode.
         


2 Select the Eye Tool () from the toolbar. In the tool options pane at the bottom of the workspace, click
         Open Closed Eyes.
      
3 In the Open Closed Eyes dialog, click to select the face of the girl in the center
         with her eyes closed. Zoom in using the controls below the preview pane; then, click
         each of the sample faces at the right to see the results. When you're done, click
         Reset at the lower right, and then re-select the girl with the closed eyes.
      
As a more appropriate source for the open eyes you need, you can choose one or more
         photos of the same girl that are already in your catalog, or images stored on your
         computer that are not yet managed by Photoshop Elements.
      
4 Under Eye Source at the right of the preview pane, click Computer. Navigate to the
         folder Lessons \ Lesson 4 \ EyeOpener, select the image DSCN0557.jpg and click Open.
         Click to apply the eyes from the second face in the second row.
      


As you can see, the Open Closed Eyes tool has successfully substituted the eyes from
            the source image, even though the angle of the head is different. Photoshop Elements
            will also attempt to match color and tonal differences, though this was unnecessary
            in our example, as the source image was captured in the same lighting conditions.
            When there is no viable source photo from the same session, look for an image where
            the lighting angle is similar.
         

5 Click OK. Save the file to your work folder with an approriate name, to be included
         in the Organizer, but not in a Version Set; then, choose File > Close.
      

Selective editing with the Smart Brush
         
Sometimes the best way to enhance a photo is to modify just part of the image, or
            to treat separate areas—such as background and foreground elements—differently, rather
            than applying an adjustment to the photo overall.
         



 Tip
         
For images with a subject that is back-lit, like our lesson photo, overall adjustments
            will never suit both the shaded subject and the brightly lit background. In such cases, using the Smart Brush to adjust differently
            lit areas in the image separately is the perfect solution.
         


The quickest and easiest way to do this is to paint your adjustments directly onto
         the image with the Smart Brush tool. The Smart Brush is both a selection tool and
         an image adjustment tool—as you paint, it creates a selection based on similarities
         in color and texture, through which your choice of editing preset is applied.
      
1 Isolate the Lesson 4 images in the Media Browser. Select the un-edited image DSCN0532.jpg­,
         and then click the Editor button () in the Taskbar.
      
2 In the Editor, click Expert in the mode picker, if necessary. In Expert mode, choose
         Window > Reset Panels. Click the Photo Bin button () at the left of the Taskbar to hide the Photo Bin; then, choose View > Fit On Screen.
      
3 Select the Smart Brush () from the toolbox. If the tool options pane doesn't open automatically at the bottom
         of the workspace, click the Tool Options button () in the Taskbar.
      



 Tip
         
You'll use the tool options pane several times in this exercise. If you prefer, you
            can hide it as you work, and then show it again as needed by clicking the Tool Options
            button in the Taskbar.
         


4 In the tool options pane, use the slider to set a brush size of 25 px (pixels); then,
         click the colored thumbnail to open the Smart Brush presets picker. Choose the Nature
         category from the Presets menu at the top of the pop-up menu, and then select the
         Make Dull Skies Blue preset.
      


 Tip
         
Press the left bracket key ( [ ) to decrease the brush size, and the right bracket
            key ( ] ) to increase it. While you're fine-tuning the selection, use a small brush
            and make slow, short strokes.
         


5 Press the Esc key on your keyboard to close the preset picker. Starting above and
         to the left of the taller girl's head, drag across the sky. If your selection expands
         too far, subtract areas such as the distant shoreline from the selection by holding
         down the Alt / Option key and painting carefully back over them. When you're happy
         with the adjustment area, Choose Select > Deselect, so that a new stroke will create
         a new adjustment, rather than add to the current one.
      
6 Starting at the left, drag to select the water. As long as the adjustment remains
         active, your strokes will add to the current adjustment area. Hold Alt / Option if
         you need to paint out submerged legs and the highlights on the girls' arms.
      
7 If you don't see tabs for the Layers, Effects, Filters, Styles, and Graphics panels
         at the top of the Panel Bin, click the arrow beside the More button () at the right of the Taskbar and choose Custom Workspace. Drag the Layers panel out
         of the Panel Bin by its name tab, and then hide the Panel bin by un-checking its name
         in the Window menu.
      
Two new layers have been created for the adjustments; each displays a colored icon
         representing the gradient used for the Blue Skies effect and a black and white thumbnail
         representing the layer mask through which the adjustment has been applied. Colored
         markers—Smart Brush adjustment pins—mark the points in the photo where you started dragging with the Smart Brush for
         each adjustment.
      


Each Smart Brush edit occupies its own layer, where it remains active and separate
            from the image itself—so you can add to or subtract from the selection, tweak the
            effect, or even change which preset is applied, without permanently affecting your
            original photo. The adjustment pins will be visible whenever the Smart Brush is active.
         



8 Deselect the Blue Skies 2 adjustment by clicking the Background layer in the Layers
         panel. Open the Smart Brush presets picker by clicking the Blue Skies thumbnail in
         the tool options pane. Select the Lighten Skin Tones preset from the Portrait category.
         Press Esc to close the Smart Brush presets picker.
      
9 Drag over the two girls, including their hair and swimsuits. If your ­selection expands
         to include areas of water; hold Alt / Option as you paint out the unwanted areas.
         Make sure the selection includes hands, elbows, and at least a little of the base
         of some of the windswept wisps of hair. You won't see a dramatic effect in the selected
         areas yet; you'll tweak the adjustment a little later.
      
A new adjustment pin appears on the image; in the Layers panel, a new adjustment layer
         is added for the Lighten Skin Tones effect. To the left of its layer mask thumbnail,
         the new adjustment layer displays a different icon from the Blue Skies effect, indicating
         that it applies a different type of adjustment through the painted mask.
      

10 Right-click / Control-click the new adjustment layer (not its black-and-white layer
         mask icon) and choose Duplicate Layer. Type Lighten Skin Tones 2 to name the new layer; then, click OK.
      
11 Hold down the Alt / Option key as you carefully paint the girl on the right out of
         the selection completely; then, drag the new Smart Brush adjustment pin aside a little
         to see the marker for your original Lighten Skin Tones adjustment.
      

Tweaking Smart Brush adjustments
         
Each Smart Brush adjustment has its own set of controls that let you customize the
            effect—even in a later editing session, as long as you've saved the file with its
            layers.
         



 Note
         
You can use the Smart Brush on the same area in an image as many times as you wish.
            If you re-apply the same preset, the effects are usually cumulative; if you apply
            more than one effect to the same image area, their effects are combined. Adjustment
            layers affect all lower layers in the Layers panel; rearranging the order of different
            adjustments applied to the same area can alter the combined effect.
         


1 In the Layers panel, double-click the gradient icon () on the Blue Skies 1 layer. In the Gradient Fill dialog box, you can modify the gradient's
         colors, angle, and fade rate. Watch the sky as you choose Reflected from the gradient
         Style menu; then, click OK.
      
2 Use the Opacity slider at the top of the Layers panel to decrease the opacity of
         the Blue Skies 1 layer from 75% to 30%. You can use the adjacent menu to change the
         blending mode, but for now, leave it set to Color Burn.
      
3 Select the layer Blue Skies 2—the adjustment for the sea. Double-click the gradient
         icon () for Blue Skies 2; then, disable the Reverse option. Click OK. Reduce the opacity
         of the Blue Skies 2 layer from 75% to 40%.
      
4 Double-click the Brightness/Contrast icon () on the Lighten Skin Tones 1 layer to open the Adjustments panel in Brightness/Contrast
         mode. Set a Brightness value of +60 and increase the Contrast to +25; then, close
         the control panel. Repeat the process for the layer Lighten Skin Tones 2, at the top
         of the list. Set both the Brightness and Contrast to a value of 15.
      
5 Click the Hand tool to disable the Smart Brush and hide the pins. In the Layers panel,
         toggle the eye icon () beside each adjustment layer's name to show and hide its effect so that you can
         assess just how the image has changed.
      

6 Choose File > Save As. Name the file DSCN0532_SmartBrush and set up the usual save options. This time, choose the Photoshop file format and
         activate the Layers option so that you can edit your adjustment layers later. Close
         the file.
      

Working with camera raw images
         
Raw images are high-quality image files that record the maximum amount of image data
            possible, in a relatively small file size. Though larger than compressed formats such
            as JPEG, raw images contain more data than TIFF files and use less space. Many common
            file formats involve in-camera processing of the incoming image data that can effectively
            degrade the quality of the image. In creating a compressed file, data deemed superfluous
            is discarded; in mapping the spread of captured data to a defined color space, the
            range of the color information can be narrowed. In contrast, raw images retain all
            of the data captured for each and every pixel.
         



 Note
         
Although not all digital cameras can capture raw images, the newer and more advanced
            models do offer this option. To see an up-to-date list of the camera models and proprietary
            raw file formats currently supported by Photoshop Elements, visit the Adobe website.
         


Capturing photos in raw format gives you more flexibility and control in editing.
         Raw files do incorporate camera settings such as exposure, white balance and sharpening,
         but this information is stored ­separately from the image data. When you open a raw
         image in Photoshop Elements, these settings become "live," so you can adjust them
         to get more from the raw image data, working with 12 bits of data per pixel, rather
         than the 8 bits/channel of JPEG or TIFF formats.
      
In the following exercises, you'll work with a raw image in Nikon's NEF format as
         you explore the Camera Raw window. This section will also serve as a review of the
         image editing concepts and terminology that you learned earlier.
      


 Tip
         
If you see a message about working with raw images in Photoshop Lightroom, click Continue
            In Photoshop Elements.
         


1 Isolate the Lesson 4 images in the Media Browser, if necessary, by clicking the check
         box beside the Lesson 04 keyword tag in the Tags panel.
      


The moment you open a raw file for the first time, the Camera Raw plug-in creates
            what is sometimes referred to as a sidecar file in XMP (Extensible Metadata Platform) format. Any modification that you make to the
            raw photograph is written to the XMP file, rather than to the image file itself, which
            means that the original image data remains intact, while the sidecar file records
            every edit.
         

2 Locate the camera raw image DSC_5683.NEF. Right-click / Control-click the thumbnail
         and choose Edit With Photoshop Elements Editor from the menu. Photoshop Elements opens
         the image in the Camera Raw window.
      

Getting to know the Camera Raw window
         
On the right side of the Camera Raw window is a control panel headed by three tabs:
            Basic, Detail, and Camera Calibration. For this set of exercises you'll work with
            the Basic tab—the default—which presents controls for making adjustments that are
            not possible with the standard editing tools in Photoshop Elements.
         



 Tip
         
Click the Detail tab to access controls for sharpening image detail and reducing the
            grainy digital artifacts known as noise.
         


1 Depending on your operating system and Camera Raw plugin version, you may see a Preview
         checkbox above the image window; make sure it is activated.
      

2 Hold the pointer over each tool in the toolbar to see a tooltip with the name of
         the tool and the respective keyboard shortcut. Click the Toggle Full Screen Mode button
         () at the right of the tool bar to switch to full screen mode.
      

3 Click the menu icon at the right of the Basic tab's header bar to see the choices
         available from the Options menu. You can apply the same settings you used for the
         last image you worked with, have Photoshop Elements revert to the default profile
         for your camera by choosing Reset Camera Raw Defaults, or save your own custom settings
         as the new default for your camera.
      

Adjusting the white balance
         
The white balance presets can help you to rectify a color cast caused by lighting
            conditions. You could correct the white balance of a photo shot on an overcast day,
            for example, by choosing the Cloudy preset. Other presets compensate for artificial
            lighting. The As Shot preset uses the settings recorded by your camera, while the
            Auto setting recalculates the white balance based on an analysis of the image data.
         



 Note
         
Incandescent lighting typically causes an orange-yellow color cast, while fluorescent
            lighting is notorious for a dull green tint.
         


1 Switch between the presets in the White Balance menu, comparing the effects to the
         default As Shot setting. In the following pages you'll discover why setting the appropriate
         white balance is so important to the overall look of the image.
      


Auto preset



Daylight preset



Fluorescent preset

2 For now, choose As Shot from the White Balance presets menu.
      


 Tip
         
In some images it can be difficult to identify a neutral tone; in the absence of a
            definitive visual reference you may at times rely on what you know about the photo:
            that it was taken on a cloudy day, for example, or under fluorescent lighting. It
            may help to look for references such as white paper, clothing, or paint, and then
            sample a shaded area.
         


For many photos, the right preset will produce satisfactory results or at least serve
         as a basis for manual adjustment. When none of the presets takes your image in the
         right direction, you can use the White Balance tool () to sample a neutral color in the photo, in relation to which Camera Raw will recalculate
         the white balance. The ideal target is a light to medium gray that is neither discernibly
         warm nor cool. In our sample photo, the weathered wood is a potential reference, but
         we can probably be more certain that the steel fencing wire in the background is a
         neutral gray.
      
3 Zoom into the image by choosing 100% from the Zoom Level menu in the lower left corner
         of the image window, or by double-clicking the zoom tool. Select the Hand tool () and drag the image downwards and to the right so that you can see the thick wire
         to the left of the girl's hat.
      
4 Select the White Balance tool (), right beside the Hand tool in the tool bar. Sample a medium gray from the center
         of the wire where it crosses a relatively dark area. If you see little effect, click
         a slightly different point.
      

5 Zoom out by choosing Fit In View from the Zoom Level menu in the lower left corner
         of the preview window.
      
The White Balance is now set to Custom and the image has become cooler. The weathered
         wood in the background is a more neutral gray and the skin tones are rosier. The eyes
         also look clearer, having lost the original yellow-orange cast.
      


 Note
         
Depending on where you clicked to set the white balance, you may see different values
            from those illustrated.
         


6 Use the White Balance menu to alternate between your custom settings and the As Shot
         preset, noting the change in the preview window, as well as the differences in the
         Temperature and Tint settings.
      


Working with the Temperature and Tint settings
The White Balance tool can accurately remove any color cast or tint from an image
            but you may still want to tweak the Temperature and Tint settings. In this case, the
            color tint seems fine, but the skin tones still have a slightly orange look that can
            be corrected by fine-tuning the blue / yellow balance using the Temperature control.
         



 Tip
         
There are no hard and fast rules in color correction; there might be times when you
            choose to retain a slight color cast for aesthetic purposes. For example, although
            technically in need of correction, you might prefer the original, too-warm cast of our lesson
            image (caused by late afternoon sunlight) for its evocative, summery look. Although
            most often used for fine color correction, the white balance settings can also be
            applied creatively to achieve surprising and dramatic atmospheric effects.
         


1 Use the Zoom tool or the Zoom Level menu in the lower left corner of the preview
         window to focus closely on the woman's face.
      
2 Test the Temperature slider by dragging it from one end of its range to the other.
         You'll see that the colors of the image become cooler or warmer as you move the slider.
         Reset the Temperature control a little below the edited value of 3700 (your value
         may differ, depending on where you clicked to set the white balance) either by dragging
         the slider or typing the value 3400 into the text box.
      
3 Double-click the Hand tool or choose Fit In View from the Zoom Level menu. Now that
         the temperature has been adjusted towards blue, the automatically corrected tint of
         the image appears just a little pink.
      
4 Decrease the Tint setting to -5 with the slider or type -5 in the Tint text box. Press Ctrl+Z / Command+Z to toggle between the new Tint setting
         and the value set with the White Balance tool, comparing the effect.
      


At the left, the skin tones produced by the White Balance tool still look a little
            too orange. On the right, the skin tones look more natural once the Temperature and
            Tint values have been reduced manually.
         


Using the tone controls on a raw image
Below the White Balance sliders on the Basic tab are sliders for improving a photo's
            tonal range and presence, or image definition.
         

Exposure adjusts the overall lightness or darkness of an image. Its effect is most apparent
         through the middle of the histogram; an increased Exposure setting will move the body
         of the curve to the right, compressing the highlights if possible, rather than shifting
         them off the end of the curve. Tweak the Exposure to brighten a dull, underexposed
         photo or correct the flat, faded look of an overexposed image.
      
Contrast is the amount of difference between the lightest and darkest areas of an image. The
         Contrast control has the most effect at the ends of the histogram; an increased setting
         moves information outwards from the center of the curve. Adjust Contrast to add definition
         to a flat image, or to soften one that is too harsh or stark.
      
Highlights recovers detail from overexposed highlights and improves midtone definition by shifting
         image information from the far right of the curve inwards.
      
Shadows recovers details from shadowed areas—something close to the inverse of the action
         of the Highlights control—and adds depth to the midtone range.
      
Whites specifies which input levels are mapped to pure white in the final image. Lowering
         the Whites value decreases clipping at the right end of the histogram. Clipping occurs
         when a pixel's color values are higher or lower than the range that can be represented
         in the image; over-bright values are clipped to output white, and over-dark values
         are clipped to output black.
      
Blacks specifies which input levels will be mapped to black in the final image. Raising
         the Blacks value decreases clipping at the left end of the histogram.
      
Clarity increases the local contrast between adjacent light and dark areas, sharpening detail without producing
         halo effects, and enhancing the midtone contrast.
      
Vibrance boosts color saturation selectively, having most effect on the muted colors in an
         image, while avoiding over-saturation of bolder colors and skin tones.
      
Saturation is the purity, or strength, of a color. Increasing the Saturation reduces the amount
         of black or white mixed with the color, making it more vivid. Reducing the Saturation
         increases the amount of black or white, making it more muted.
      
First you'll adjust the overall exposure and contrast; then, set the white and black
         points to avoid clipping at the ends of the histogram before tweaking the highlights
         and shadows to bring out as much image detail as you can.
      
1 Keep an eye on the histogram as you drag the Exposure slider slowly all the way to
         the right; then, press the letter O on your keyboard to activate the white clipping
         warning. The red areas that appear in the preview warn you which parts of the image
         are being clipped to white.
      



 Note
         
The values at which clipping appears may differ slightly for you, depending on where
            you clicked with the White Balance tool.
         


2 Drag the slider to the left until all the red areas disappear—even from the woman's
         head-band. The Exposure control doesn't cause white clipping until the setting is
         extreme; for now, set the Exposure value to +0.5.
      
3 Watch the histogram as you drag the Contrast slider through its full range, before
         setting it to a value of +50.
      

4 Put the Whites slider through its paces. White clipping is already beginning to appear
         when the setting reaches +15. Return the Whites to a zero setting.
      

5 Press U on your keyboard to activate the black clipping warning, and then play with
         the Blacks slider. When you're done, set the Blacks to -10—the point below which the
         blue clipping warning appears in the darkest areas of the image.
      

6 Move the Highlights slider all the way to the right. Although the effect on the image
         is quite extreme, there is no clipping now that you've set the white point. Watch
         the textural detail reappear in the sunlit wood as you reduce the Highlights setting
         to -50. Drag the Shadows slider to set a value of +50, watching as detail is retrieved
         from the darkest areas in the photo. Press the U and O keys on your keyboard to disable
         the clipping warnings.
      


 Note
         
The Camera Raw plug-in, used by Photoshop Elements to open raw files, is updated as
            new cameras are added to the list of those supported. Check for updates and download
            the latest version of the plug-in at www.adobe.com.
         


7 Choose a magnification level of 100% from the Zoom menu at the lower left of the
         image window, or double-click the Zoom tool; then, use the Hand tool to center your
         view on the girl's face. Drag the Clarity slider to +30. Double-click the Hand tool
         to see the entire image, and then set the Vibrance value to +25.
      
8 To compare the adjusted photo to the raw image, toggle the Before And After Views
         button (Y) at the right of the bar immediately below the preview.
      

The photo originally looked somewhat dull, muddy, and indistinct, and a little too
         dark. It now shows a broader range of detail and is more vivid; the colors are brighter
         and the tones are more realistic. For the sake of clarity in our demonstration however,
         some of the adjustments you made were quite extreme. If you wish, you can now tone
         down the corrections to balance the image to your taste.
      

Saving the image in the DNG format
         
Each camera manufacturer has its own proprietary raw format, and not every raw file
            can be read or edited by software other than that provided with the camera. There
            is also the possibility that ­manufacturers might not support every format indefinitely.
            To help alleviate these problems, Photoshop Elements gives you the option to save
            raw images in the DNG format, a publicly available archival format for raw images
            that provides an open standard for files created by different camera models, ensuring
            that you'll still be able to access your images in the future.
         

1 To convert and save the image, click the Save Image button at the lower left of the
         Camera Raw dialog box. Under Destination in the Save Options dialog box, click Select
         Folder. Navigate to and open your Lessons folder; then, highlight your My CIB Work
         folder and click Select.
      
2 Under File Naming, leave Document Name selected in the menu on the left. Click the
         menu on the right and select 1 Digit Serial Number. This will add the number 1 to
         the end of the file name.
      
3 Click Save. The file, together with all your current settings, will be saved in DNG
         format, which you can reprocess repeatedly without losing the original data.
      
4 Click the Open Image button in the right lower corner of the Camera Raw dialog box.
         Your image will open in a regular image window in Photoshop Elements. Choose File
         > Save. Navigate to your My CIB Work folder, name the file DSC_5683_Work, and choose the Photoshop format. Make sure that the new file will be included in
         the Organizer, but not in a Version Set.
      
5 Click Save, and then choose File > Close.
      
Congratulations! You've completed your first lesson on the Editor; take a look at
         all the images in the Media Browser to refresh your memory about how many new photo
         editing techniques you've learned.
      



Review questions
1 What are the key differences between adjusting images in Expert mode, Quick edit
               mode and Guided edit mode?
            


2 Can you apply automatic fixes when you are in Expert mode?
      
3 What is the purpose of the Photo Bin?
      
4 What is the Smart Brush tool?
      
5 What do the terms temperature and tint refer to in image editing?
      


Review answers
1 Expert mode provides the most flexible and powerful image correction environment,
               with lighting and color correction commands and tools for fixing image defects, making
               selections, adding text, and painting on your images. Quick edit provides easy access
               to a range of basic image editing controls for quickly making common adjustments and
               corrections. If you're new to digital photography, Guided edit steps you through each
               procedure to help you get professional-looking results.
            


2 Yes; the Enhance menu in Expert mode contains commands that are equivalent to the
         Auto buttons in the Quick Edit Adjustments panel: Auto Smart Fix, Auto Levels, Auto
         Contrast, Auto Color Correction, as well as Auto Red Eye Fix. The Enhance menu also
         provides an Adjust Smart Fix command, which opens a dialog box in which you can specify
         settings for automatic adjustments.
      
3 The Photo Bin provides easy access to the photos you want to work with, without needing
         to leave the Editor workspace. You can set the Project Bin to display all the photos
         that are currently selected in the Media Browser, just those images that are open
         in the Editor (helpful when some of the open images are hidden behind the front window),
         or the entire contents of any album in your catalog.
      
4 The Smart Brush is both a selection tool and an image adjustment tool—it creates
         a selection based on similarities in color and texture, through which your choice
         of editing preset is applied. You can choose from close to seventy Smart Brush presets,
         each of which can be customized, applied repeatedly for a cumulative effect, or layered
         with other adjustment presets to produce an almost infinite variety of results.
      
5 If an image's color temperature is too warm or too cool, it will have either a orange-red
         or blue color cast. A yellow-green or magenta color cast is referred to as a tint.
      







5. Working with Color and Making Selections


Lesson overview
Photoshop Elements delivers a broad selection of tools and controls for correcting,
            adjusting, and getting creative with color. Whether you want to make corrections to
            compensate for inadequate lighting conditions, brighten a smile, or paint the town
            red, you'll find a range of solutions, from one-click Auto Fixes to customizable tools
            that give you precise control of the adjustments you apply.
         
This lesson introduces you to a variety of tools and techniques for fixing color problems
            in your photos:
         
• Using automatic options to correct color
         
• Adjusting skin tones
         
• Whitening yellowed teeth
         
• Removing red eye and "pet-eye" effects
         
• Making, saving, and loading selections
         
• Changing the color of a pictured object
         
• Replacing a color throughout an image
         
• Working with color management
         

You'll probably need between one and two hours to complete this lesson. If you haven't
            already done so, log in to your peachpit.com account to download the lesson files for this chapter, or follow the instructions
            under "Accessing the Classroom in a Book Lesson Files" in the Getting Started section
            at the beginning of this book.
         



From one-step fixes to more specialized features and techniques, you'll find that
            all of the powerful and versatile color tools in Photoshop Elements are easy to master,
            giving you all the control you need to quickly correct the color balance across an
            entire image, adjust just one area selectively, or let your creativity run wild.
         


Getting started
         
You'll begin by importing the sample images for this lesson to the CIB Catalog that
            you created at the beginning of Lesson 1.
         



 Note
         
Before you start this lesson, make sure that you've s et up a folder for your lesson
            files and downloaded the Lesson 5 folder f rom your Account page at www.peachpit.com, as detailed in "A ccessing the Classroom in a Book Lesson Files" and "C reating
            a work folder" in the "Getting Started" section at the beginning of this book. You
            should also have created a new catalog (see "Creating a catalog for working with this book" in Lesson 1).
         


1 Click the Import button at the upper left of the Organizer workspace, and choose
         From Files and Folders. In the Get Photos and Videos from Files and Folders dialog,
         navigate to and select your PSE2018CIB/Lessons/Lesson 5 folder. Disable any automatic
         options that are active; then, click Get Media.
      
2 In the Import Attached Keyword Tags dialog, click Select All; then, click OK.
      

Batch-processing the lesson files
Before you start working with the Lesson 5 images, you can batch-process them as you
            did in Lesson 4. At the end of each exercise in this lesson, you can compare the combined
            auto-fixes to the results that you achieve using various other techniques.
         

1 Click the Editor button () in the Taskbar to switch to the Editor. If necessary, click Expert in the mode picker
         to switch the Editor to Expert mode.
      

2 Choose File > Process Multiple Files. In the Process Multiple Files dialog box, click
         the check boxes to activate all four Quick Fix options. Browse to locate and select
         the Lessons / Lesson 5 folder as the source for the images to be processed and your
         My CIB Work folder as the destination for the processed copies.
      
3 Activate Rename Files and set the options to add the appendix "_AutoFix" to the existing
         document names. If necessary, disable the resizing and file conversion options under
         Image Size and File Type, and then click OK.
      
4 Click the Organizer button () in the Taskbar. In the Organizer, click the Import button and choose From Files
         And Folders. Open your My CIB Work folder. Select the files with names that begin
         with "05," and then click Get Media.
      
5 In the Import Attached Keyword Tags dialog box, click Select All; then, click OK.
      

Correcting color problems
Artificial lighting, weather conditions, and incorrect camera settings can result
            in one of the most common image problems: a color cast that affects the entire image.
         



 Tip
         
Even when a photo is technically perfect, you may still wish to adjust the color—either
            across the entire image, or just for a particular area or object—in order to create
            an effect.
         


For some images your color problem may be more localized, such as red eyes in a photo
         taken with a flash, or a portrait spoiled by yellow-looking teeth.
      
You'll begin this lesson by revisiting and comparing some of the tools for making
         quick and easy, image-wide adjustments in the Quick and Guided edit modes. Later,
         you'll explore methods for fixing red eyes and yellow teeth, and learn how to use
         the selection tools—an essential skill for making localized edits in Expert mode.
      

Comparing methods of fixing color
         
The automatic correction features in Photoshop Elements do an excellent job of bringing
            out the best in most photographs, but each image—and each image problem—is unique;
            some photographs require a more hands-on approach.
         

Photoshop Elements offers a variety of tools and controls for adjusting color; the
         more techniques you master, the more likely it is that you'll be able to meet any
         challenge presented by a difficult photograph.
      


This photo exhibits the overly warm, yellow-orange cast common to many images taken
            in standard tungsten—­or incandescent­—lighting.
         

1 If you don't see the Lesson 5 images already isolated in the Media Browser, click
         the check box beside the imported Lesson 05 keyword tag.
      
2 Select the image 05_01.jpg in the Media Browser; then, click the Editor button () in the Taskbar.
      
In the exercises in this section, you'll compare three different techniques for correcting
         the same color problem, so you'll create three copies of the original photo.
      
3 Click Quick in the mode picker to switch the Editor to Quick mode. Choose Window
         > Reset Panels. In the action bar above the Edit pane, make sure that the View is
         set to After Only, and then choose View > Fit On Screen. If the Adjustments panel
         is not open at the right of the Quick edit workspace, click the Adjustments button
         () at the right of the Taskbar.
      
4 Show the Photo Bin, if necessary. Right-click / Control-click the image in the Photo
         Bin and choose Duplicate from the context menu. In the Duplicate Image dialog box,
         click OK to accept the default name 05_01 copy. Repeat the process to create two more
         duplicates, 05_01 copy 2 and 05_01 copy 3.
      
While you're in Quick edit or Guided edit mode, you won't see image window tabs displayed
         at the top of the Edit pane; in both these modes you can view only one image at a
         time in the work area. To see which photos are open in the Editor, and which of them
         is currently active, and also to switch between them, you'll use the Photo Bin. The
         name of each image appears as a tooltip when you hold the pointer over its thumbnail
         in the Photo Bin. Alternatively, right-click / Control-click anywhere inside the Photo
         Bin and choose Show File Names from the context menu.
      


In the Photo Bin, a blue frame highlights the active image; that is, the photo that
            you see in the After Only view in the Edit pane.
         


Correcting color automatically
         
For the batch processing at the start of this lesson, you applied all four automatic
            Quick Fix options together. In this exercise, you'll apply the automatic color adjustment
            on its own, so that you can assess the result unaffected by other settings.
         

1 In the Photo Bin, click the second photo, 05_01 copy, to make it active; then, choose
         Before & After - Vertical from the View menu in the action bar above the Edit pane.
         Use the Hand and Zoom tools to focus on the faces.
      
2 If the tool options pane replaces the Photo Bin when you select the Hand tool or
         the Zoom tool in the toolbar, click the small menu icon () at the upper right of the tool options pane and disable Auto Show Tool Options;
         then, click the Photo Bin button () in the Taskbar to show the Photo Bin.
      
3 In the Adjustments panel, expand the Color pane and click the Auto button. Compare
         the Before and After views. There is a marked improvement; the Auto Color fix has
         corrected the worst of the orange color cast. Skin tones are slightly cooler, clothing
         colors a little brighter, but the tonal range is still somewhat flat.
      



 Tip
         
If you can't find the My CIB Work folder, refer to "Creating a work folder" on page
            3.
         


4 Choose File > Save. Name the file 05_01_AutoColor, to be saved in JPEG format to your My CIB Work folder and included in the Organizer,
         but not as part of a Version Set. Click Save; then, click OK in the JPEG Options dialog
         box.
      

Adjusting the results of an automatic fix manually
An automatic fix can serve as a good starting point for some manual fine-tuning.

1 In the Photo Bin, double-click the third photo, 05_01 copy 2, to make it the active
         image; then, expand the Color pane and click the Auto button.
      


 Tip
         
To type a new value for any setting, first click to select the number to the right
            of the adjustment slider.
         


2 Click the Saturation tab at the top of the Color pane; then, reduce the setting to
         -25 to give the color a more natural look. Click the Hue tab and reduce the value to
         -5 to shift the color away from yellow-green. Increase the Vibrance to a setting of
         20 to re-saturate the color a little, without affecting the skin tones.
      


Original image



Auto color adjustment



Saturation reduced



Hue and Vibrance adjusted

3 Expand the Balance pane and click the Temperature tab. Reduce the Temperature setting
         to 40 and increase the Tint value to 15 to further reduce the color cast.
      
4 Expand the Exposure pane, and then increase the Exposure setting to 0.8. In the Lighting pane, set the Midtones value to 15.
      


Temperature reduced



Tint increased



Exposure boosted



Midtones adjusted

The contrast has improved, the colors are brighter, and the skin tones have lost the
         "fake tan" look common in photos captured without a flash in tungsten lighting.
      
5 Choose File > Save. Name the file 05_01_AutoColorPlus, to be saved in JPEG format to your My CIB Work folder and included in the Organizer,
         but not as part of a Version Set. Click Save; then, click OK in the JPEG Options dialog
         box.
      

Tweaking an automatic fix using Color Curves
You can use commands from the top half of the Enhance menu to apply the same adjustments
            as the Auto buttons in the Adjustments panel; these Enhance menu commands are available
            in Quick and Expert modes, but not in Guided edit mode.
         

Both the Quick and Expert edit modes also offer other methods of enhancing color that
         give you finer control over the results. These are the commands in the lower half
         of the Enhance menu. In this exercise, you'll use one of these options to tweak the
         adjustments applied by the Auto Color fix button.
      
1 In the Photo Bin, click the image 05_01 copy 3, to make it active.
      
2 In the Color pane, click the Auto button to apply the automatic Quick Fix correction;
         then, choose Enhance > Adjust Color > Adjust Color Curves to open the Adjust Color
         Curves dialog box.
      
3 In the Select A Style menu at the lower left of the Adjust Color Curves dialog box,
         click each color curve preset in turn, noting the effect on the curve in the graph
         at the right as well as the After image above it. Select Increase Midtones.
      
4 Drag the Adjust Highlights slider to a point about a third of the distance from the
         default central position to its limit at the right. Drag the Midtone Brightness and
         Midtone Contrast sliders about half as far to the right; then, click OK.
      

5 Choose File > Save. Name the file 05_01_ColorCurves, and set up the usual work file settings. Click Save; then, click OK in the JPEG
         Options dialog box.
      

Comparing results
A glance at the Photo Bin will tell you that all three of your saved work files are
            still open in the Editor. Let's compare them to the batch-processed AutoFix file.
         

1 Right-click / Control-click the image at the left of the Photo Bin—the original photo—and
         choose Close from the context menu.
      
2 Choose File > Open. Locate and open your My CIB Work folder; then, select the file
         05_01_AutoFix and click Open. Click Expert at the top of the workspace to switch to
         Expert mode.
      
3 Choose Preferences > General from the Edit / Adobe Photoshop Elements Editor menu.
         Activate Allow Floating Documents In Expert Mode; then, click OK.
      
Floating document windows are now the default for Expert mode. Throughout the rest
         of this book however, it will be assumed that you are working with image windows that
         are docked (consolidated) in the Edit pane. At the end of this exercise you'll disable
         floating windows so that you can follow the exercises as written.
      
4 Hide the Photo Bin, if necessary, by clicking the Photo Bin button (). Choose Window > Images > Float All In Windows, and then choose Window > Images
         > Tile. To synchronize the view across all four image windows, choose Match Zoom,
         and then Match Location, from the Window > Images menu.
      
5 Click the Zoom tool () in the toolbar; then, click the Tool Options button () in the Taskbar. In the tool options pane, activate the Zoom All Windows option below
         the Zoom slider. Click the Hand tool () and activate Scroll All Windows; then, click the Tool Options button to hide the
         tool options pane. Use the Zoom and Hand tools to focus on the faces in any of the
         image windows.
      



 Note
         
Only one image window is active at any given time. The file name and image details
            are dimmed in the title bars of all but the currently active image window.
         


6 Drag your favorite version out of the tiled arrangement by its header bar and float
         the image window in the center of the work area; then, double-click the Hand tool
         to fit it to the screen. Press Ctrl-Tab or Ctrl-Shift-Tab to cycle through all the
         open image windows, bringing each to the front in turn.
      
7 Choose Preferences > General from the Edit / Photoshop Elements Editor menu and disable
         floating documents; then, click OK. Choose File > Close All.
      

Adjusting skin tones
When your primary concern is the people in your photo, you can correct a color cast
            across the entire image by concentrating on achieving natural, good-looking skin tones.
            Photoshop Elements offers tools to do just that in all three Edit modes.
         

1 In the Organizer, select the image 05_01.jpg in the Media Browser, and then click
         the Editor button () in the Taskbar. Use the Zoom and Hand tools to focus on the faces of the mother
         and the two daughters sitting closest to her.
      
2 Choose Enhance > Adjust Color > Adjust Color For Skin Tone. In the Adjust Color For
         Skin Tone dialog box, make sure the Preview option is activated.
      
3 As you move the pointer over the image, the cursor changes to an eyedropper tool.
         With the eyedropper tool, click the lightly shaded area of skin to the right of center
         on the youngest sister's forehead. The color balance of the entire photo is adjusted
         using the sampled skin tone as a reference.
      

4 Move the Tan, Blush, and Temperature sliders to achieve the skin tones you want,
         and then click OK. Choose File > Save As. Name the file 05_01_Skin and save it to your My CIB Work folder with the usual options. Choose File > Close.
      

Removing a color cast with one click
As you learned in Lesson 4, the Color Cast Eyedropper tool provides yet another solution
            to difficult color balance problems. If you wish to try the Color Cast Eye-dropper
            on the photo you've been working with, you can do so in any of the three edit modes.
            In Quick edit and Expert modes, choose Remove Color Cast from the Enhance > Adjust
            Color menu. In Guided edit mode, select Remove A Color Cast.
         

Use the Color Cast Eyedropper to define a color that should appear temperature-neutral­—neither
         warm nor cool; the color balance is recalculated around that tone. The best choice
         is a mid gray, though black or white can also work. Choosing the right color can take
         a little practice. In our sample photo, for example, the zippered sweater that appears
         to be a neutral gray in the before image actually contains a lot of cool blue; instead,
         try sampling the brightest point on the lily in the foreground.
      


Working with red eye
         
As you learned in Lesson 2, Photoshop Elements can apply an automatic red eye fix
            during import, so that your images are corrected before they reach the Organizer.
            However, the automatic solution is not effective for every photo; in this exercise,
            we'll look at the manual techniques you can use to deal with those difficult cases.
         



 Note
         
The red eye effect happens when the camera's flash is reflected off the retina at
            the back of the eye, causing the pupil at the center to appear bright red instead
            of black.
         



Using the automatic red eye fix
1 If necessary, use the Tags panel or the My Folder list to isolate the Lesson 5 images.
            Select the images 05_02a.jpg and 05_02b.jpg, and then click the Editor button () in the Taskbar. Switch the Editor to Expert mode.
         



As you can see, the auto correction does a great job with two of the four red eyes.
            Unfortunately, they're not even on the same face! The Eye Tool may fail to identify
            a pupil if your photo is out of focus, poorly exposed, or has a color cast; if possible,
            try correcting those problems before tackling the red eyes.
         

2 At the top of the work area, click the name tab for the image 05_02a.jpg to bring
         that photo to the front. Use the Zoom and Hand tools to focus as closely as possible
         on both of the girls' faces; then, choose Enhance > Auto Red Eye Fix.
      
3 Press Ctrl+Z / Command+Z to undo the Auto Red Eye Fix. Keep the file open.
      

Using the Eye Tool to fix red eyes
For stubborn red eye problems, you can use the Eye Tool (), which you'll find in the toolbar in both Quick edit and Expert modes.
         

1 Zoom and drag the photo to focus the view on the eyes of the girl at the left.
      

2 Select the Eye Tool ()); then, click the Tool Options button () in the Taskbar to open the tool options pane, if necessary. Choose Reset Tool from
         the options menu () at the far right. Click once in each eye, close to center of the pupil.
      
For this example, the Eye Tool works perfectly. If you ever find that the red eye
         correction is over-extended, blackening portions of the iris or spilling onto the
         skin around the eye, try clicking at a different point.
      
3 Zoom and drag the photo to focus the view on the eyes of the girl at the right.
      


 Tip
         
Once again, the Eye Tool produces a good result easily. For difficult cases that don't
            improve, no matter where you click or drag, undo and adjust the Pupil Radius and Darken
            sliders in the tool options pane before you try clicking or dragging again.
         



4 This time, drag a marquee rectangle with the Eye Tool around each eye in turn. Experiment
         with the size and placement of the rectangle to get the best results. If you're not
         satisfied, undo and try again. Hold the Alt / Option key to draw the rectangle from
         its center.
      
5 Choose File > Save As. Name the new file 05_02_RedEye, to be saved to your My CIB Work folder in JPEG format and included in the Organizer,
         but not in a Version Set. Click Save. Accept the JPEG settings and choose File > Close.
      

Eye treatments for furry friends
As every pet owner knows, animals' eyes also reflect light from a camera flash. Though
            the reflection from pets' eyes is sometimes red, it's more often blue, green, yellow,
            or white and will not respond well to the automatic red eye fix; for these cases,
            you can switch the Eye tool to Pet Eye mode.
         

1 You should still have the image 05_02b.jpg open in Expert mode in the Editor. Select
         the Eye Tool (); then, click the check box in the tool options pane to switch the tool to Pet Eye
         mode.
      
2 Try both of the techniques you practiced in the previous exercise in turn, undoing
         after each attempt. Experiment with the full range of the Pupil Radius and Darken
         sliders in the tool options pane until you're happy with the result.
      

3 Choose File > Save As. Name the new file 05_02_PetEye and save it to your My CIB Work folder with all the usual settings; then, choose
         File > Close.
      


Brightening a smile
Sometimes a photo can be spoiled by a color problem as simple as yellow-looking teeth.
            As with the red eye effect, Photoshop Elements offers an easy solution that's available
            in all three Edit modes.
         

Located in the toolbar in Quick edit mode and as part of the Perfect Portrait procedure
            in Guided edit mode, the Whiten Teeth tool is a preset variant of the Expert mode's
            Smart Brush, which functions as both a selection tool and an image adjustment tool.
            You can use the Whiten Teeth tool (or the Smart Brush with the Whiten Teeth preset
            loaded) to select the yellowed teeth, exactly as you would with the Quick Selection
            tool, and the preset whitening adjustment is applied inside the selection.
         
The Whiten Teeth selection and adjustment is made on a new layer separate from the
            original image in the background layer. The edit remains active on its own adjustment
            layer—so you can return to alter the selection area or the way the adjustment is applied
            at any time. You can use the tool more than once on the same area, building up multiple
            layers that you can then blend for a natural effect.
         





Why won't Photoshop Elements do what I tell it to do?
In some situations, the changes you try to apply to an image may not seem to work.
            You may hear an error sound, indicating that you're trying to do something that's
            not allowed. The following list offers explanations and solutions for common issues
            that might be blocking your progress.
         
Commit is required
Several tools, including the Type tool, the Crop tool, and the Move tool (when used
            to scale a selection), require you to click the green check-mark Commit button on
            the bounding box surrounding your type, crop, or selection, before you can move on
            to another task.
         
Cancel is required
The Undo command isn't available while you have uncommitted changes made with tools
            such as those listed above; to undo these edits, click the Cancel button rather than
            the Undo command.
         
Edits are restricted by an active selection
When you create a selection, you limit the active area of the image; edits will apply
            only within the selected area. If you try to make changes to an area outside the selection,
            nothing happens. To deactivate a selection so you can work on another part of the
            image, choose Select > Deselect.
         
Move tool is required
When you drag a selection with a selection tool pointer, the selection outline moves,
            rather than the selected part of the image. If you want to move a selected part of
            the image or an entire layer, first select the Move tool.
         
Background layer is selected
You can't erase, delete, or change the opacity of the Background layer, or change
            its level in the layer stack unless you first unlock it for editing. To do this, double-click
            the Background layer in the Layers panel and rename it.
         
Active layer is hidden
In most cases, the edits you make apply only to the currently selected layer (highlighted
            in the Layers panel). An eye icon with a red bar beside a layer in the Layers panel
            shows that the layer is hidden and cannot be edited. Click the eye icon to make the
            layer visible.
         
If the image on the selected layer is hidden by an opaque area on an upper layer,
            your edit may actually be working, but the results are simply blocked from view in
            the image window.
         
Active layer is locked
If you lock a layer by selecting it and then clicking the Lock icon at the top of
            the Layers panel, the layer cannot be edited. To unlock the layer, select it, and
            then click the Lock icon again.
         
Wrong layer is selected (for editing text)
If you want to make changes to text, be sure that the text layer is selected in the
            Layers panel before you start. If a non-text layer is selected when you click the
            Type tool in the image window, Photoshop Elements creates a new text layer instead
            of placing the cursor in the existing text.
         



Making selections
         
By default, adjustments you make are applied across the whole photo. If you wish to
            edit only a specific area or object, you first need to select it. An active selection
            is the only area of the image that can be edited; the rest of the photo is protected.
         

The boundaries of a selection are indicated by a selection marquee: a flashing border of black and white dashes. For selections with soft—or feathered—edges, the selection marquee extends as far as the center-line of the feathering;
         outside the marquee, the "hardness" of the selection is less than 50%.
      
You can save a selection; then, re-use it or edit it later, saving you time when you're
         creating a complicated selection, or when you need to isolate the same area again.
      

Using the Auto Selection tool
In Quick and Expert modes, the Editor offers a suite of selection tools, each helpful
            for a different situation or working style. We'll start by taking a look at the latest
            addition—new in Photoshop Elements 2018—the Auto Selection tool.
         

1 If necessary, use the Tags panel or the My Folder list to isolate the Lesson 5 images.
         Select the unedited image 05_07.jpg; then, click the Editor button () in the Taskbar. Switch the Editor to Expert mode.
      

2 Select the Quick Selection tool, or whichever variant is currently visible to the
         right of the Lasso tool in the toolbar. If necessary, click the Tool Options button
         () in the Taskbar to open the options pane below the image preview.
      
3 	In the tool options pane, select the Auto Selection tool (). In the tool options, make sure that the New button at the left is activated; then,
         choose the Rectangle selection style.
      

4 Click outside the image, just beyond the rock's right edge; then, drag upwards and
         to the left to surround the mermaid and her rock with the marquee.
      


Photoshop Elements looks for the object's outline and contracts the selection to fit.
            The Auto Selection tool can be used as a stand-alone tool, as in this exercise, but
            it is most effective in combination with the other tools in the group, making quick
            work of establishing a rough base selection that can then be further edited.
         

5 In the tool options, switch from New selection mode to Add To Selection, and change
         the selection style from Rectangle to Lasso. Zoom in and out by pressing the Control
         / Command key together with the Plus or Minus sign key, as you work around the selection
         border, drawing small, rough selections around unselected areas you wish to add. Switch
         from Add to Subtract From Selection mode and repeat the process to subtract unwanted
         background areas.
      
6 When you're done, choose Select > Inverse to select the water; then press the Delete
         key to see how well you did. Choose Edit > Undo Delete; then, choose Edit > Undo Select
         Inverse, and continue to tweak the selection.
      
7 When you're happy with the result, delete the background as you did in Step 6; then
         choose File > Save as. Add _AutoSelect to the file name and save to your work folder in high quality JPEG format, to be
         included in the Organizer, but not in a Version Set. Choose File > Close.
      

Loading selections
If an image has been saved with layers or saved selections (Alpha Channels­), you can load the Alpha Channel, or transparent areas of a layer—as an active selection.
         



 Note
         
The lesson image has been saved in Photoshop file format, which can store layers and
            saved selections.
         


1 In the Organizer, select the unedited image 05_03.psd in the Media Browser; then,
         click the Editor button () in the Taskbar.
      
2 If necessary, switch to Expert edit mode. Hide the Panel Bin by un-checking its name
         in the Window menu; then, hide the Photo Bin by clicking the Photo Bin button () in the Taskbar. Choose View > Fit On Screen.
      
3 Choose Select > Load Selection. In the Load Selection dialog box, choose the saved
         selection "Bees" from the Source menu; then, click OK.
      


The saved selection is loaded. The four bees and the central crown of the water lily
            flower are now surrounded by a flashing selection marquee. The area inside the flashing
            border has become the active portion of the image; the rest of the photo is protected
            from the effects of any edits you may execute. In the exercises to follow, you'll
            select the flower, together with the bees; then, use the saved selection to help you
            isolate the petals.
         

4 Choose Select > Deselect to clear the current selection.
      

Using the Selection Brush
         
Perhaps the most intuitive and controllable way to create a selection is to "paint"
            it directly onto the image, adding and erasing areas to correct the selection as you
            go. This exercise and the next focus on the use of two selection tools in Photoshop
            Elements that let you do just that: the Selection Brush and the Quick Selection tool.
         


The Selection Brush tool has a Selection mode, where you paint over the area you want
         to select for editing, and a Mask mode, which lets you brush a semi-opaque overlay
         onto the areas you want to protect from editing. The Selection Brush () is grouped with the Quick Selection tool (), the Magic Wand tool (), the Refine Selection Brush () and the new Auto Selection tool ().
      
1 Select the Quick Selection tool—or whichever of its variants is currently visible
         to the right of the Lasso tool in the toolbar—then, click the Tool Options button
         () in the Taskbar to open the tool options pane at the bottom of the Edit window.
      
2 In the tool options pane, click the Selection Brush tool to activate it. In the Selection
         Brush tool options, make sure that the Add To Selection button at the left is activated
         (see below); then, choose Selection from the Mode menu, set the brush Size to 35 px (pixels),
         and set the brush Hardness value to 100%. Click the Tool Options button () in the Taskbar to hide the tool options pane.
      

3 Drag with the Selection Brush to paint a live selection over four or five of the
         petals at the lower left. Don't try to paint all the way to the edges; you'll do that
         in the next step. You can paint over the bees to include them in the selection.
      


 Tip
         
While you paint your selection onto the image, release the mouse button every second
            or two so that you don't have to repeat too much work if you need to undo a stroke.
         



Now you need to reduce the brush size to paint around the edges of the petals, adding
         to your selection. You could open the tool options to change the brush size, but while
         you're working it's far more convenient to press the open bracket key ([) to reduce
         the brush size in increments and the close bracket key (]) to enlarge it.
      


 Note
         
The bracket keys change the brush size in different pixel increments depending on
            the size of the brush. For a brush above 100, the increments are 25 pixels; between
            50 and 99, the increment is 10 pixels; below 50, the brush adjusts in 5-pixel increments;
            when the brush is set smaller than 10, the increments are reduced to one pixel.
         


4 Press the left bracket key ([) five times to reduce the Selection Brush size to ten
         pixels, and then paint your selection to the edges of the petals. If you go too far,
         simply hold down the Alt / Option key to switch the Selection Brush to Subtract From
         Selection mode, and paint out your mistakes. Use the bracket keys to change the brush
         size as needed, until the selection outline completely surrounds the petals in the
         lower left quadrant of the flower.
      

Using the Quick Selection tool
With the Quick Selection tool, all you need to do is click or "scribble" in the area
            that you wish to select and Photoshop Elements will do most of the work. You don't
            need to be precise; the quick selection border automatically expands to find the edges
            of the area you're selecting by identifying similarities in color and texture.
         

1 Click the Selection Brush tool in the toolbar; then, open the tool options pane.
      
2 In the tool options pane at the bottom of the workspace, click the Quick Selection
         tool (); then, make sure the Add To Selection mode is activated. You can set the brush size
         with the slider, and adjust other brush attributes by clicking Brush Settings. For
         the purposes of this exercise, you can use the default brush—with a diameter of 30
         px (pixels) and the Hardness set to 100%. Click the Tool Options button in the Taskbar
         to hide the tool options pane.
      


3 Starting from inside your active selection, scribble slowly inside the outline of
         the flower, making sure to draw through areas of different color and brightness—including
         the bees and the central stamens. Release the mouse button once or twice to see the
         result. As you draw, Photoshop Elements automatically expands the selection to any
         area adjacent to your stroke that has similarities in color and texture.
      
Selecting the flower directly was simple enough, but objects with more complex shapes
         and a lot of internal detail can sometimes be more difficult. In those cases, it can
         be more effective to use the Quick Selection tool to select everything but the object, and then invert the selection.
      

4 Press Ctrl+Shift+A / Command+Shift+A to deactivate the current selection; then, drag
         around the outside of the flower to select the leafy background. Once more, be sure
         to draw through areas of different brightness.
      
5 To turn the selection inside out choose Select > Inverse. Check the tips of the petals
         and the angles where they meet; if you're missing a petal tip, paint it in with the
         Selection Brush tool. If fragments of background are selected between the petals,
         hold down the Alt / Option key and paint out the extraneous areas.
      
The background is now masked, and the water lily flower is selected—together with
         its furry friends—ready for the next exercise.
      

Working with saved selections
In this exercise you'll save your live selection, and then modify it by loading the
            selection that was previously saved with the image file.
         


1 With your selection still active, choose Select > Save Selection.
      
2 In the Save Selection dialog box, name the selection Flower.
      
By default, the Selection menu is set to New: the selection will be saved in its own
         channel. At this setting the alternative Operation options are unavailable; you'll
         look at those a little later.
      
3 Click OK to close the Save Selection dialog box.
      

4 Without deactivating the selection, choose Select > Load Selection. In the Load Selection
         dialog box, click the Source Selection menu to see your Flower selection listed. Choose
         the saved selection Bees as the selection to be loaded.
      
5 Under Operation, activate Subtract From Selection. This will deselect any areas where
         the selection you're loading and the currently active selection overlap. Click OK.
      


 Note
         
"Add To Selection" combines the saved and current selections. "Intersect With Selection"
            selects the areas where the two selections overlap.
         


6 Choose Select > Save Selection. In the Save Selection dialog box, name the new selection
         Petals. Make sure that the Selection menu is set to New to save the selection in its own
         channel, rather than replacing one of the existing selections.
      
7 Click OK to close the Save Selection dialog box.
      
Next, you'll apply adjustments to the image through your new saved selections.

Editing through selections
         
Now that you've saved different selections from the image, you can use them to do
            some selective editing, applying different treatments to separate areas of the photo.
         

1 Choose Select > Load Selection. In the Load selection dialog box, choose the Flower
         selection from the Source Selection menu. Click the check box to activate the Invert
         option; this will select everything but the flower. Make sure that the Operation option is set to New Selection; then, click
         OK.
      
2 Choose Enhance > Adjust Lighting > Brightness/Contrast. Reduce the Brightness value
         to -100, increase the Contrast to 20, and then click OK.
      
The adjustment to the background lighting has put the flower in the spotlight. As
         well as focusing attention on the flower, it has also given the photo a different
         feel, shifting it from mid-day to morning, and perhaps deeper into the forest.
      
3 Choose Select > Load Selection. This time, choose the saved Petals selection from
         the Source Selection menu in the Load Selection dialog box. Make sure that the Operation
         option is set to New Selection; then, click OK.
      
The petals look underexposed in some areas, and burned-out in others as a result of
         the dappled light. Let's bring out some midtone detail and recover some color.
      
4 Choose Enhance > Adjust Lighting > Shadows/Highlights. Reduce the default Lighten
         Shadows value to zero. Increase the Darken Highlights setting to 10% and the Midtone Contrast to 20%, and then click OK.
      
The petals now have much more color detail, and an improved tonal spread that helps
         to increase texture and definition.
      
5 Choose Enhance > Adjust Color > Adjust Hue/Saturation. Decrease the Hue value to
         -50. Leave the Saturation and Lightness values unchanged. Click OK.
      
Changing the color of the petals serves to narrow the focus even further to the bees
         and their business at the center of the flower.
      

6 Choose File > Save As. Name the file 05_03_SavedSelections, to be saved in Photoshop format, with all the usual settings. Click Save, and then
         close the file.
      

Selecting fine edge detail
         
The Refine Selection Brush helps you make complex selections—even for really difficult
            subjects like hair, fur, grass, and foliage. You can switch the Refine Selection Brush
            between four working modes to add or subtract from a basic selection, to push a misaligned
            selection border into place, or to smooth jagged edges.
         

1 In the Editor, make sure you're in Expert mode. If necessary, hide the Panel Bin
         and click the Quick Selection tool to show the tool options pane. Choose File > Open;
         then, locate and open the file 05_04.psd.
      
2 To save you time, we've provided the lesson image with a pre-saved base selection.
         Choose Select > Load Selection; then, click OK to load the saved Base Selection.
      


 Note
         
Snap Strength affects how closely the selection will "adhere" to edge detail, while
            the Selection Edge control increases or decreases the tool's sensitivity; a "Soft"
            setting will detect finer edge detail.
         


3 In the tool options pane, select the Refine Selection Brush (); then, set the tool to Add mode. Set the brush size to 900 px, and the Snap Strength
         and Selection Edge values to their maximums. Reduce the opacity of the selection overlay
         to 70%.
      

4 Position the cursor as shown below, so that the outer circle just includes the extremities of the feathers. The area under the gray circle will become
         "solidly" selected, so make sure the inner circle falls inside the edge detail and
         does not include any of the background. Click and hold until the selection stops growing
         (below, center); then, release the mouse button and move the cursor away.
      


 Tip
         
The Refine Selection Brush has another cursor mode not discussed in this exercise;
            please refer to the topic "Editing and refining selections" in Photoshop Elements
            Help for more detail.
         



5 Repeat step 4 in the same position; then, work clockwise around the selection edge,
         treating each segment twice (or more, if you still see un-selected areas). When you
         reach the area under the narrowing beak, reduce the brush to 500 px but, whenever
         you change the brush size, be sure to reset the Selection Edge control to its maximum
         value. If you find that you've selected parts of the background, switch the tool to
         Subtract mode and work the same way, from outside the selection.
      

6 When you're done, click the View swatch in the tool options pane and switch the preview
         from Overlay to On Black mode. Choose Select > Save Selection, and save your work
         as a new selection. Save the file in PSD format, and then close it.
      

Changing the color of a pictured object
         
Photoshop Elements offers two very different methods for switching a specific color
            in an image: the Color Replacement tool and the Replace Color dialog box.
         



 Tip
         
The color replacement technique that will be most effective depends on the characteristics
            of the photo that you're working with and the extent of the changes that you wish
            to make.
         



Using the Color Replacement tool
The Color Replacement tool enables you to replace a targeted color in an image by
            painting over it with another; it's equally effective for making localized color corrections,
            or used as a "magic brush" to enhance a photo creatively.
         


The cursor for the Color Replacement tool consists of crosshairs at the center of
         a circle that indicates the brush size. When you drag in the image, the color pin-pointed
         by the crosshairs is sampled as the target color and the new color is then applied
         to any pixel inside the cursor circle that matches the targeted color, within the
         tolerance range set in the tool options bar.
      
What this means is that you can be quite relaxed as you paint; as long as you keep
         the crosshairs inside the area of color that you wish to replace, the circle can overlap
         the neighboring area without changing the color, making it easy to paint right up
         to the edge. The only pixels affected are those inside the cursor circle that match
         the targeted color under the crosshairs.
      
1 Use the Lesson 05 keyword tag, if necessary, to isolate the Lesson 5 images. Select
         the image 05_05.jpg; then, click the Editor button () in the Taskbar.
      
2 If necessary, switch the Editor to Expert mode. Hide the Panel Bin by un-checking
         its name in the Window menu; then, hide the Photo Bin by clicking the Photo Bin button
         () in the Taskbar. Choose View > Fit On Screen.
      

3 Click the foreground color swatch below the toolbar to open the Color Picker. Type
         in the text boxes to set the Hue (H), Saturation (S), and Brightness (B) to values
         of 200, 80, and 100 respectively. Click OK to close the Color Picker.
      
4 Select the Brush tool () (grouped in the toolbar with the Impressionist Brush and the Color Replacement tool);
         then, click the Tool Options button () in the Taskbar, if necessary, to access the tool settings. In the tool options pane,
         select the Color Replacement tool at the lower left; then, click the small menu icon
         () at the far right and choose Reset Tool. Set the brush size to 200 px. Leave the rest of the settings unchanged and hide the tool options pane.
      

You'll use the new foreground color to repaint the boat behind the Rhea (WK7).
      

5 Click in the upper left corner of the red paint at the boat's bow; then drag around
         the edges of the area bounded by the white paint at the top, the ropes to the right,
         and the stone wall at the left. Work carefully into the edges, always keeping the
         crosshairs within the outlines of the red paint. Reduce the brush size by pressing
         the left bracket key ( [ ) and magnify the view as needed as you move towards the
         back of the boat, painting over all the red areas. Release the mouse button frequently
         so you can undo any over-painting without losing too much work.
      
So far, so easy; the Color Replacement tool automatically adapts the new color for
         both lit and shaded areas. Now you need to deal with the reflections on the water.
         Obviously, it won't be possible to "keep inside the lines" to protect the areas reflecting
         white, so you'll change the way the Color Replacement tool operates.
      

6 In the tool options pane, switch the sampling mode from Continuous to Once, increase
         the Tolerance setting to 40%, and set the brush size to 100 pixels.
      
7 Zoom in so that you see only the area where the reflections are to be re-colored.
         Click inside one of the darker red patches close to the blue boat; then, without releasing
         the mouse button, "scrub" over all the reflections that should now be blue. Take your
         time, paying attention to any small areas still showing red.
      

8 Choose File > Save. Name the file 05_05_BlueBoat, to be saved as a JPEG file to your My CIB Work folder, and included in the Organizer,
         but not in a Version Set. Click Save; then, click OK in the JPEG Options dialog box.
         Close the file.
      

Replacing a color throughout an image
         
Using the Replace Color dialog box can be faster than painting with the Color Replacement
            tool, but it can be difficult to control—especially when the color of the object you
            want to change is also present in other parts of the photo. Even with difficult images,
            you can achieve a good result by using the Replace Color dialog box in conjunction
            with a selection.
         

In the following exercises, you'll switch the colors of two pictured objects, making
         your changes on a duplicate of the Background layer, so that you can easily compare
         the finished project to the original picture. First, you'll work on the entire image,
         which will give you an indication of just where—and how much—the color change will
         affect the rest of the photo. In the second stage, you'll use a selection to constrain
         the changes.
      
1 In the Organizer, use the Lesson 05 keyword tag, if necessary, to isolate the Lesson
         5 images. In the Media Browser, click to select the image 05_06.jpg, and then click
         the Editor button () in the Taskbar.
      
2 In the Editor, choose Window > Reset Panels. Hide the Photo Bin, if necessary, by
         clicking the Photo Bin button () in the Taskbar; then, double-click the Hand tool or choose View > Fit On Screen.
         If you don't see the Layers panel at the right of the workspace, click the Layers
         button () in the Taskbar.
      
3 The layers panel shows that this image has only one layer, which is active (selected)
         by default. Choose Layer > Duplicate Layer and accept the default name. Alternatively,
         drag the Background layer to the New Layer button () at the upper left of the Layers panel. With a duplicate layer, you'll have an original
         to fall back on should you need it.
      
4 With the new Background copy layer selected in the Layers panel, choose Enhance >
         Adjust Color > Replace Color.
      

5 In the Replace Color dialog box, make sure that the left-most of the three eyedropper
         buttons is activated—as in the illustration at the right—and that Fuzziness is set
         to the default value of 40. Make sure that Preview is activated, and switch the selection
         preview thumbnail to the Image view option.
      
6 Move the pointer over the thumbnail preview in the Replace Color dialog box and click
         once with the eyedropper on the yellow taxi. Change the selection preview from Image
         to Selection, so that you can see the extent of the color selection you just made
         highlighted in white on a black background.
      
7 Below the selection preview, either use the sliders or type in the text boxes to
         set the Hue, Saturation, and Lightness values to 90, 100, and 0 respectively; a bright green that will be very easily seen wherever it appears in
         the image.
      
8 To adjust the area of selected color—or color-application area—start by clicking
         the second of the three eyedropper buttons to switch the Eyedropper tool to Add To
         Sample mode, as illustrated at the right, below; then, click in the main image window
         in a few areas where the paint on the car still appears yellow.
      


9 Use the Add To Sample eyedropper again, if necessary, and then drag the Fuzziness
         slider left and right and until you have full coverage on the car. In both the Edit
         pane and the black and white selection preview, you can see that it's not possible
         to change the color of the car using this technique without affecting the woman's
         skin and hair, as well as various parts of the background. Click Cancel to close the
         Replace Color dialog box.
      

Replacing a color in a limited area of an image
In this exercise you'll limit the color change to a selected area of the photograph.


1 Make sure the layer Background copy is still selected in the Layers panel. In the
         toolbar, switch to the Quick Selection tool (). Press the left and right bracket keys ( [ , ] ) to set a workable brush size.
      
2 Use the Quick Selection tool to select all the yellow areas of the car. As much as
         possible, try to include the reddish halo that surrounds the yellow areas (clearly
         visible on the roof, at the front of the taxi, and around the wheel arches and signage).
         If you go too far and need to trim the selection, simply hold down the Alt / Option
         key as you work to switch the Quick Selection tool temporarily to Subtract From Selection
         mode.
      
3 Choose Enhance > Adjust Color > Replace Color. Repeat steps 5 through 8 from the
         previous exercise. Be sure that you follow the steps in order; you need to sample
         the original yellow before setting hue, saturation, and brightness to define the replacement
         color. This time, set the Hue, Saturation, and Lightness values to -85, -30, and 0 respectively; a color that will match the woman's scarf.
      

4 When you're satisfied with the results, click OK to close the Replace Color dialog
         box; then choose Select > Deselect, or press Ctrl+D / Command+D.
      

5 Repeat the process for the scarf. First, select it with the Quick Selection tool,
         taking particular care with the shaded areas in the deeper folds, and the areas adjacent
         to the woman's hair and under her chin. Then, choose Enhance > Adjust Color > Replace
         Color, sample the scarf thoroughly, and set the Hue, Saturation, and Lightness values
         to 70, 60, and 0; a color that would have once matched the taxi.
      

6 To compare the edited image to the original, toggle the visibility of the Background
         copy layer by clicking the eye icon beside the layer thumbnail. Make the new layer
         visible again, and then Right-click / Control-click the Background copy layer and
         choose Flatten Image from the menu. The image is flattened to a single layer; the
         layer you edited replaces the original background layer.
      

7 Choose File > Save. Name the file 05_06_ColorSwitch, to be saved to your My CIB Work folder, and included in the Organizer, but not in
         a Version Set. Click Save; then, click OK in the JPEG Options dialog box. Close the
         file.
      

About printing color pictures
Color problems in your photos can result from a variety of causes, such as incorrect
            exposure, the quality of the camera, artificial lighting, or even weather conditions.
            If an image is flawed, you can usually improve it by editing it with Photoshop Elements,
            as you did with the images in this lesson. Sometimes, however, pictures that look
            great on your computer don't turn out so well when you print them; fortunately, there
            are things you can do to make sure that what you get from the printer is as close
            as possible to what you see on screen.
         

Firstly, it's important that you calibrate your monitor regularly, so that it's set
         to display the range of color in your photographs accurately. However, even with a
         correctly calibrated display, your prints may still look disappointing if your printer
         interprets color information differently from your computer. You can correct this
         problem by activating the appropriate type of color management.
      

Working with color management
Moving a photo from your camera to your monitor and from there to a printer can cause
            an apparent shift in the colors in the image. This shift occurs because every device
            has a different color gamut or color space­—the range of colors that the device is capable of interpreting and reproducing.
         

To achieve consistent color between digital cameras, scanners, computer monitors,
         and printers, you need to use color management. Color management software acts as
         an interpreter, translating colors so that each device can reproduce them in the same
         way. This software knows how each device and program understands color, and adjusts
         colors so that what you see on screen is similar to the colors in your printed image.
         It should be noted, however, that not all colors may match exactly.
      
Color management software calls on device-specific color profiles: mathematical descriptions
         of each device's color space. If these profiles are compliant with the standards of the ICC (International Color Consortium), they will help you maintain
         consistent color. When you save a file, select Embed Color Profile in the Save As
         dialog box. In Photoshop Elements, you can access the color management controls from
         the Edit menu in both the Organizer and the Editor.
      

Setting up color management
1 Choose Edit > Color Settings; then, select one of these color management options
            in the Color Settings dialog:
         

• No Color Management uses your monitor profile as the working color space. This setting removes any embedded
         profiles when opening images and does not apply a profile when saving.
      
• Always Optimize Colors for Computer Screens uses sRGB as the working color space, preserves embedded profiles, and assigns sRGB
         when opening untagged files. Computer screens are capable of reproducing all of the
         colors in the sRGB range, so this setting will ensure an accurate display for any
         device that supports the sRGB color space.
      
• Always Optimize for Printing uses Adobe RGB as the working color space, preserves embedded profiles, and assigns
         Adobe RGB when opening untagged files. This setting will display your photos based
         on the colors within the AdobeRGB color space, commonly used for printing images.
      
• Allow Me to Choose lets you choose whether to assign sRGB (the default) or Adobe RGB when opening a
         file that has an unsupported color profile, or no embedded profile at all.
      

2 Click OK to close the Color Settings dialog.
      
Further information on color management, including monitor calibration, can be found
         in a series of topics in Photoshop Elements Help.
      
Congratulations, you've completed another exercise. You've learned a wide variety
         of techniques for working with color in your photos, from tweaking automatic corrections
         to switching the color of a pictured object. You've gained a lot of experience in
         all three Edit modes and honed your selection skills—essential for many sophisticated
         and creative color edits. Now, take a minute to refresh your knowledge by reading
         through the review questions and answers on the following page.
      


Review questions
1 What makes selections so important for adjusting color?
            


2 Name at least two selection tools and describe how they work.
      
3 How does the Color Replacement tool work?
      
4 What is the difference between the Continuous and Once sampling modes for the Color
         Replacement tool, and how are they used?
      


Review answers
1 A selection defines an area as the only part of a layer that can be altered. The
               areas outside the selection are protected from change for as long as the selection
               is active. This enables you to make adjustments selectively, targeting specific areas
               or objects.
            


2 The first selection tool you used in this lesson is the Selection Brush tool, which
         works like a paintbrush. The Quick Selection tool is similar, but is in most cases
         a faster, more flexible option. There are more selection tools than are discussed
         in this lesson: The Magic Wand tool selects areas with the same color as that on which
         you click. The Rectangular Marquee tool and the Elliptical Marquee tool make selections
         of a fixed geometric shape. The Lasso tool lets you draw free-form selections, and
         the Magnetic Lasso tool helps to draw complicated selections around even irregular
         object edges. The Polygonal Lasso tool is the tool of choice for selecting straight-sided
         objects.
      
3 The Color Replacement tool samples the color under the pointer and replaces it with
         any color that you choose. The cursor for the Color Replacement tool consists of crosshairs
         at the center of a circle indicating the brush size. When you drag in the image, the
         color under the crosshairs is sampled, and the foreground color is applied to any
         pixel inside the circle that matches the sampled color, within the tolerance value
         specified in the tool options pane. As long as you keep the crosshairs inside the
         area of color that you wish to replace, you can overlap the adjacent area without
         changing the color, making it easy to paint right up to the edge.
      
4 In Continuous sampling mode, the Color Replacement tool continuously samples the
         pixels under the cursor crosshairs, updating the target color as you drag across your
         image. This is useful for recoloring an area that has varied tones, without increasing
         the tolerance. In the Once sampling mode, the target color is set with the first click.
         Use this mode for detailed areas where it's not easy to keep the crosshairs inside
         the lines.
      







6. Fixing Lighting and Exposure Problems


Lesson overview
Photoshop Elements makes it easy to fix images that are too dark or too light and
            to rescue photos that are dull, flat, or simply fading away.
         
Start with Quick Fix and Guided edits, and work up to Expert mode as you learn how
            to use powerful, easy-to-use tools in all three editing modes to make the most of
            poorly exposed images, retrieve detail from photos that are too dark or pale and faded,
            and liven up images that look flat and washed out.
         
In this lesson, you'll be introduced to a variety of techniques for dealing with a
            range of common exposure problems:
         
• Brightening underexposed photographs
         
• Correcting parts of an image selectively
         
• Saving selection shapes to re-use in later sessions
         
• Working with adjustment layers and layer masks
         
• Using layer blending modes and opacity settings
         
• Adjusting lighting controls manually
         
• Enhancing overexposed, faded, and hazy photographs
         

You'll probably need between one and two hours to complete this lesson. If you haven't
            already done so, log in to your peachpit.com account to download the lesson files for this chapter, or follow the instructions
            under "Accessing the Classroom in a Book Lesson Files" in the Getting Started section
            at the beginning of this book.
         



Learn how to make the most of images that were captured in unusual lighting conditions,
            retrieving detail from overly dark photos and putting the spark back into images that
            look dull or washed out. Find out how Photoshop Elements can help you save those faded
            memories—no matter what your level of experience—with a suite of powerful, easy-to-use
            tools and the versatility of three editing modes.
         


Getting started
         
To start, you'll import the sample images for this lesson to the CIB Catalog that
            you created at the beginning of Lesson 1.
         



 Note
         
Before you start this lesson, make sure that you've set up a folder for your lesson
            files and downloaded the Lesson 6 folder from your Account page at www.peachpit.com, as detailed in "Accessing the Classroom in a Book Lesson Files" and "Creating a
            work folder" in the "Getting Started" section at the beginning of this book. You should
            also have created a new work catalog (see "Creating a catalog for working with this book" in Lesson 1).
         


1 Start Photoshop Elements and click Organizer in the Welcome Screen.
      
2 In the Organizer, check the lower right corner of the workspace to make sure the
         CIB Catalog is loaded—if not, choose File > Manage Catalogs and select it from the
         list.
      
3 Click the Import button at the upper left of the Organizer workspace and choose From
         Files And Folders from the drop-down menu. In the Get Photos And Videos From Files
         And Folders dialog box, locate and select your Lesson 6 folder. Disable the automatic
         processing options; then, click Get Media.
      
4 In the Import Attached Keyword Tags dialog box, click Select All; then, click OK.
      

Batch-processing the lesson files
As you've already seen, the batch-processing command lets you apply automatic adjustments
            to an entire folder of image files at once.
         

1 Before you start this lesson, set up automatic processing for all the Lesson 6 images
         by following the steps in the exercise "Batch-processing the lesson files" at the
         beginning of Lesson 5.
      
2 At the end of each exercise in this lesson, compare the automatic fixes to the results
         that you achieve using various other techniques.
      

Adjusting images for tonal balance
Most image problems fall into two basic categories: color and exposure. In some photos,
            the two issues can be interrelated, and there is also some overlap in the tools and
            techniques you'll use to correct them.
         

In the previous lesson, you gained experience recognizing and dealing with color deficiencies
         in your photos. This lesson will focus on exposure and lighting—issues that affect
         the tonal balance of your image.
      
Ideally, an image should have a good spread of tonal values from dark to light; any
         imbalance can result in a photo that is too dark or too light, has too little contrast
         or too much, or is lacking detail in the shadows, the midtones, or the highlights.
      
As with color correction, Photoshop Elements offers a range of tools for adjusting
         exposure, available in all three Edit modes. In the exercises to follow, you'll look
         at a variety of ways to get the best from poorly exposed images, retrieve detail from
         photos that are too dark, and liven up images that look flat and washed out.
      

Brightening an underexposed image
         
Underexposed photographs look too dark or dull and flat, often across the entire image,
            but sometimes in just part of it. While the lighting auto-fixes do a good job with
            many photos, this exercise will teach you techniques to give you more control for
            adjusting the exposure in problem images.
         



Applying Quick Fix lighting adjustments
Let's start by combining Exposure and Lighting adjustments in Quick edit mode.

1 If necessary, click the check box beside the Lesson 06 tag to isolate the lesson
         images. Select the file TooDark.jpg; then, click the Editor button () in the Taskbar. Click Quick in the mode picker to switch to Quick edit mode.
      


 Tip
         
Use the View menu above the Edit pane to switch between the After Only view and the
            Before & After views to help you assess the results of your adjustments as you work.
         


2 Expand the Lighting pane and click the Shadows tab. Set the (lighten) Shadows value
         to 55. Increase the Midtones setting to 25, and (darken) Highlights to 15. As you lighten the shadows, note the detail retrieved in the dress of the second
         girl from the left. Watch the detail in the girls' hair as you darken the highlights.
      

You've improved the image substantially with just a few clicks. However, though the
         skin tones have been lightened and have more definition, they are still a little cool.
      
3 Expand the Color pane. Click to activate the Hue tab and increase the value to 4. Expand the Balance pane and increase the Temperature setting to 54.
      



4 Choose File > Save. Make sure that Include In The Elements Organizer is activated
         and disable Save In Version Set With Original. Name the new file TooDark_QuickEdit, to be saved to your My CIB Work folder in JPEG format. Click Save. In the JPEG Options
         dialog box, use the slider to set the Quality to 9, and then click OK. Choose File
         > Close.
      

Adjusting exposure in Guided Edit mode
When you're not sure what adjustments a poorly exposed image needs, the Basics category
            in Guided edit mode offers three procedures for correcting lighting and exposure:
            Brightness And Contrast, Levels, and Lighten And Darken—each with easy-to-follow prompts
            that make it simple for even a novice to get great results.
         




 Note
         
In the guided edit panel, numerical values for the settings are displayed in tooltips
            when you click or move the slider controls.
         

1 In the Organizer, select the image TooDark.jpg. Click the Editor button () in the Taskbar; then, click Guided in the mode picker to switch the Editor to Guided
         edit mode. Select the Basics category and click Brightness And Contrast. Drag the
         sliders to increase the Brightness setting to 80 and the Contrast to -50. Click Next below the Brightness And Contrast panel; then, click Done.
      

2 Click the Levels guided edit; then, click the Create Levels Adjustment button at
         the top of the guided edit panel. Click OK in the New Layer dialog box to accept the
         default name for the new adjustment layer. Select the second of the three eyedropper
         tools in the Levels panel and click to sample a mid-gray from the wooden railing at
         the right of the photo; then, click OK. Click Next below the Levels panel; then, click
         Done.
      
3 Launch the Lighten And Darken edit from the Basics pane. Set the Shadows, Highlights,
         and Midtones to 10, 19, and 20 respectively, and then click Next.
      
4 Click the Save As button. Make sure that the new file will be saved to your work
         folder and included in the Organizer, but not in a Version Set. Change the file format
         from Photoshop to JPEG; then, name the new file TooDark_Guided. Click Save; then, click OK to close the JPEG Options dialog box. Choose File > Close,
         and then click Don't Save to avoid saving the changes to the original file.
      


 Note
         
Strong lighting behind a foreground subject is a classic cause of exposure problems;
            a setting that achieves an adequate exposure level across the entire frame will often
            leave the subject underexposed. In our example, the bright highlights edging our subjects
            may contribute to the problem in this way; their backs are obviously well lit, while
            the lighting on their faces and in the background is low and indirect.
         


Once again, the adjusted image looks considerably better than the original; however,
         it would be ideal if we could treat the three girls in the foreground separately from
         the brighter background, so that it doesn't become over-exposed.
      

Fixing exposure in Full Edit mode
If your photo is a difficult case, more elaborate methods than those you've used in
            the Quick and Guided edit modes might be necessary to achieve the best results. In
            Full Edit mode you can work with multiple layers and blending modes, and also make
            selections to isolate specific parts of an image for special treatment.
         


Using blending modes
In a multiple-layered image file, each layer has its own blending mode that defines
            the way it will interact with any layer below it in the stacking order. By default,
            a newly created layer uses the Normal blending mode: it will not blend with the layers
            below it except where it contains transparency or when the master opacity for the
            layer is set to less than 100%. A layer with the blending mode set to Darken or Lighten
            will blend with the layers below it only where the result will darken or lighten the
            lower layers. Other blending modes produce more complex results.
         



 Tip
         
For information on the effects produced by the different layer blending modes, please
            refer to Photoshop Elements Help.
         


If a photo is too dark, applying the Screen blending mode to an overlaid duplicate
         of the background layer may correct the problem. If your photo is overexposed, an
         overlaid duplicate with the Multiply blending mode can be a solution. You can adjust
         the master opacity of the overlaid layer to control the intensity of the effect.
      
1 In the Media Browser, right-click / Control-click the image TooDark.jpg and choose
         Edit With Photoshop Elements Editor from the context menu, taking care not to confuse
         the original file with the edited copies.
      
2 Switch to Expert mode by clicking Expert in the mode picker at the top of the Editor
         workspace. Choose Window > Reset Panels, and then hide the Photo Bin by clicking the
         Photo Bin button () at the left of the Taskbar (twice, if necessary). Choose View > Fit On Screen.
      



 Tip
         
You can also duplicate a selected layer by choosing Duplicate Layer from the Layer
            menu or by right-clicking / Control-clicking the layer and choosing from the layer's
            context menu.
         


3 In the Layers panel you can see that the image has only one layer: the Background.
         Duplicate the Background layer by dragging it onto the New Layer button () at the left of the Layers panel's header.
      
In the Layers panel, the new Background copy layer is highlighted to indicate that
         it is the currently selected—or active—layer.
      


 Tip
         
If the layer blending mode menu is disabled, make sure that you have the copy layer—not
            the original Background—selected in the Layers panel.
         


4 With the Background copy layer selected, choose Screen from the blending mode menu
         at the top of the Layers panel. The image becomes much brighter overall, but the girls
         still look underexposed. Duplicate the layer Background copy with its Screen blending
         mode by dragging it onto the New Layer button. At the top of the Layers panel, set
         the second duplicate layer's opacity to 50%.
      
5 Choose File > Save. Name the new file TooDark_Blend, to be saved to your My CIB Work folder and included in the Organizer, but not as
         part of a Version Set. To preserve the layers you created, save the image in the Photoshop
         (PSD) file format and make sure the Layers option is activated, and then click Save.
      
6 To quickly compare the adjusted image to the original, toggle the visibility of the
         Background Copy layers by clicking the eye icon () beside each layer's thumbnail. When you're done, close the file without saving.
      

In this exercise you've seen how you can use a blending mode to brighten a dull image.
         For many photos, however, applying a blending mode over the entire image in this way
         can adversely affect areas that were OK to begin with.
      
Although, in the case of our lesson image, there has been no such detrimental effect
         on the background—as there may have been had the buildings been brightly lit by sunlight—the
         blended background does have a somewhat washed-out look and seems to compete for attention
         with our subjects in the foreground.
      

About adjustment layers
         
An adjustment layer affects the underlying layers like an overlay or lens filter,
            perhaps darkening the photo, perhaps making it appear pale and faded or intensifying
            its hues—but remaining separate from the image itself. Effects applied on an adjustment
            layer can be easily revised, or even removed, because the pixels of the image layers
            are not permanently modified. You can even copy an adjustment layer from one photo
            and paste it on top of the image layers in another—a real time-saver when you wish
            to apply the same treatment to several similar images.
         


Using adjustment layers to correct lighting
In this exercise you'll try some different techniques to correct and enhance the same
            underexposed photo that you used for the last series of exercises.
         

1 In the Organizer, select the image TooDark.jpg in the Media Browser; then, click
         the Editor button () in the Taskbar.
      

2 Click the Create New Fill Or Adjustment Layer button () in the header of the Layers panel and choose Brightness/Contrast from the menu.
         In the Brightness/Contrast panel, drag the sliders or type in the text boxes to set
         Brightness and Contrast values of 100 and -50 respectively.
      


 Note
         
A new adjustment layer is always created immediately above the selected layer.


3 Click the Create New Fill Or Adjustment Layer button again, this time choosing Levels
         from the menu. Notice the new Levels 1 adjustment layer in the Layers panel. The Adjustments
         panel is updated to present the Levels controls.
      

4 Select the lower of the three eyedropper tools at the right of the Levels controls
         and click one of the white areas on the blue box in the background. The white point
         eyedropper improves the tonal range, and also corrects the cool color cast, adding
         some life to the skin tones. Drag the gray midtones stop under the center of the histogram
         to the left to set a new value of 1.1.
      

5 Choose File > Save. Name the new file TooDark_AdjustLayers, to be saved to your My CIB Work folder and included in the Organizer, but not as
         part of a Version Set. To preserve the layers, save the image in the Photoshop (PSD)
         file format and make sure the Layers option is activated, and then click Save.
      
6 To quickly assess the effect of the adjustment layers, toggle the visibility of each
         layer by clicking the eye icon beside its thumbnail in the Layers panel. When you're
         done, close the file without saving.
      
As long as you save the file in the Photoshop format, preserving the layers, you can
         return to adjust your settings at any time. Even after closing the file, the adjustment
         layers retain the values you set, and remain live; if necessary, you could even revert
         to the original image by either hiding or deleting the adjustment layers.
      

Correcting parts of an image selectively
Our adjustment layers brought out color and image detail from the overly dark original
            photo, but the background is now overexposed and lacking in tonal depth. So far in
            this lesson, all the corrections you've made have been applied to the entire image;
            in the next set of exercises you'll selectively adjust just part of the photo.
         



Creating a selection
In this exercise you'll isolate our subjects in the foreground from the watery backdrop
            so that you can treat these two areas of the image separately. To start, you'll select
            the combined silhouette of the girls on the grass and save that selection.
         

You've already explored some of the many ways to make a selection in Lesson 5. We'll
         start by revisiting the Quick Selection tool, which automatically determines selection
         borders based on similarity in color and texture.
      
1 Open the original image file TooDark.jpg once again.
      
2 In the toolbar, click the Quick Selection tool (), or whichever of its variants is currently visible at the right of the Lasso tool;
         then, click the Tool Options button () in the Taskbar to access the tool settings. In the tool options pane, make sure
         that the New Selection mode is activated for the Quick Selection tool. Set a brush
         diameter of around 100 px (pixels) and activate Auto-Enhance.
      


3 Place the cursor just inside the hair-line above the woman's forehead and drag a
         line down the face and body of the girl in front of her, and then to the left across
         the three younger sisters. The active selection automatically expands to surround
         the combined silhouette of our subjects; not bad for a quick first pass.
      
Next, you need to refine the border to capture the silhouette as closely as possible.
         You'll need to deselect a very small area of background between the hips of the two
         girls at the left, add the railing on which the group is leaning, and pay attention
         to the hair and highlight areas.
      


 Tip
         
Use the left and right bracket keys ( [ , ] ) to reduce or increase the brush size
            as you work, without stopping to open the tool options.
         


To refine your selection, you can hold down either the Shift key or the Alt / Option
         key as you work to alternate between the Add To Selection and Subtract From Selection
         modes of the Quick Selection tool.
      
4 Keeping the Quick Selection tool selected, hold the Ctrl / Command key and press
         the plus sign (+) to zoom in. Hold the spacebar and drag the image to focus your view
         on the waist-level space between the two girls at the left.
      
5 Press the left bracket key ( [ ) on your keyboard repeatedly to reduce the brush
         size to 10 px. Drag in the unwanted fragment of background, holding down the Alt /
         Option key to operate the Quick Selection tool in Subtract From Selection mode. The
         selection contracts to exclude the extraneous area. Alternate between the Alt / Option
         key and the Shift key, using a combination of clicks and very short strokes to refine
         the selection border around the deselected area.
      
6 Without being overly fussy, use the same techniques as you continue to refine the
         selection around the subjects' heads and the back-lit edges. Your work will be much
         simpler if you use the keyboard shortcuts detailed in step 5 and in the margin Tip
         above to navigate in the image and adjust the tool settings.
      
7 Finally, add the other foreground element­—the railing­—to the selection, taking
         care to exclude the background areas framed by its uprights.
      



 Tip
         
Take a moment to move the pointer over each control in the Refine Edge dialog box
            in turn to see a description of its action displayed in a tooltip.
         


8 To smooth and soften the edges of the selection, choose Select > Refine Edge. Alternatively,
         you could show the tool options pane and click the Refine Edge button. In the Refine
         Edge dialog box, activate the Smart Radius option for the Edge Detection control and
         set the Radius to 3 px. Under Adjust Edge, set the Smooth value to 3, and the Feather amount to 1 px. Under Output, make sure the Output To option is set to Selection.
      
9 While you're working on refining your selection, you can preview the results against
         a variety of backgrounds, each helpful in different circumstances. Under View Mode,
         click the View button. Move the pointer over each of the seven preview options to
         see a tooltip description, then click on each in turn to see the result in the Edit
         window.
      

10 Click OK to apply your edge refinement settings to the selection; then, choose Select
         > Save Selection. In the Save Selection dialog box, choose New from the Selection
         menu, type Girls for the selection name, and then click OK. Once a selection is saved, you can always
         re-use it—after assessing your adjustments you can reload the selection to modify
         them. Choose Select > Deselect.
      

Using layer masks to isolate parts of an image
Now that you've created a selection including only the figures in the foreground,
            you can adjust the exposure and lighting for the subjects and the background independently.
            You could use your selection (even at a later date, now that you've saved it) to temporarily
            isolate part of the image for editing. Instead you'll use the saved selection to create
            separate layer masks for the different areas in the image.
         

A layer mask can be permanently linked to a particular layer in an image, so that
         any modification made to that layer will be applied only through the mask. The parts
         of the layer protected by the layer mask are hidden from view when it's blended with
         the other layers in your image. Layer masks can be edited by painting and erasing,
         so you can add to or subtract from a layer mask­ (and thereby, add to or subtract
         from the area that will be modified by an editing operation) without affecting the
         image pixels on the layer to which the mask is attached.
      
1 Duplicate the Background layer by dragging it onto the New Layer button () at the left of the Layers panel's header.
      
2 Click the menu icon () at the far right of the Layers panel's header to open the Layers panel Options menu;
         then, choose Panel Options. In the Layers Panel Options dialog box, select either
         large or medium thumbnails—seeing the layer thumbnails can help you visualize the
         layers you're working with. Click OK. If necessary, choose View > Fit On Screen so
         that you can see the entire image.
      
3 Choose Select > Load Selection. Choose the saved selection Girls from the Source
         Selection menu, click the check box to activate the Invert option and choose New Selection
         under Operation; then click OK.
      
4 Make sure the layer Background copy is still selected, and then click the Add Layer
         Mask button () at the top of the Layers panel.
      

A mask thumbnail appears on the Background copy layer, showing that your active selection
         in the image window has been converted to a layer mask on that layer. The blue frame
         around the mask thumbnail indicates that the mask is currently selected—any change
         you make right now will modify the mask, not the image pixels on this layer.
      


 Tip
         
Edits made on a masked layer will be applied at full strength through the white parts
            of the mask; black areas in the mask represent the parts of your image that are completely
            protected. A gray area will allow a modification to be applied at a strength equivalent
            to the percentage of white present; a layer mask containing a gradient from white
            to black can be a great way to fade one image into another.
         


5 Alt-click / Option-click the layer mask thumbnail to make the mask visible in the
         Edit window. With the mask selected, as it is now, you can edit it using painting
         and selection tools—or even the Text tool. Alt-click / Option-click the layer mask
         thumbnail again to hide the mask. Choose Select > Deselect Layers.
      
6 Click to select the image thumbnail on the masked layer; then click, the eye icon
         on the original Background layer to make the layer temporarily invisible. You can
         see that the protected areas of the masked layer are actually hidden from view. Make
         the Background layer visible again.
      
While this layer mask is active, any change made to the original Background layer
         will be visible only in the figures in the foreground; any change you make to the
         masked layer will be applied only to the backdrop around them.
      
7 Make another copy of the original Background layer by dragging it onto the New Layer
         button () at the left of the Layers panel's header bar. Choose Select > Load Selection. Select
         your saved selection, Girls, as the Source Selection, but this time, leave the Invert
         option disabled. Under Operation, choose New Selection; then click OK.
      
8 Make sure the new layer, Background copy 2 is still selected, and then click the
         Add Layer Mask button () at the top of the Layers panel. Repeat steps 5 and 6 for the new mask layer.
      
If you keep the layer masks linked to the Background copy layers as they are now,
         they will remain editable. For the purposes of this exercise however, we've already
         refined our selection, and we have no other reason to keep the mask active.
      

9 Right-click / Control-click each black and white layer mask thumbnail in turn and
         choose Apply Layer Mask from the context menu.
      
The layer masks can no longer be edited; they have been permanently applied to their
         respective layers. The layer mask thumbnails have now disappeared and the image thumbnails
         show areas of transparency indicating protected areas on those layers.
      
10 You'll find it much easier to deal with layers—especially when you're working with
         many of them—if you give your layers descriptive names in the Layers panel. Double-click
         the name text of Background copy 2 and type Girls as the new name for the layer. Change the name of Background copy to City.
      

Correcting underexposed areas
We can now apply the most effective brightening technique from the earlier exercises
            to the subjects of our photo selectively.
         

1 In the Layers panel, make sure that the Background layer is visible; then, select
         the layer Girls and choose Screen from the blending menu.
      
2 Duplicate the Girls layer and set the opacity for the new copy to 25%. The figures
         are brighter and clearer, while the City layer remains unchanged.
      


Adding more intensity
Now that the figures in the foreground look so much better, the shaded buildings behind
            them need to be adjusted to appear less dull and murky.
         

With the foreground and background isolated on separate masked layers, you're free
         to apply whatever modifications you choose. There are no hard-and-fast rules; you
         might decide to emphasise the figures by making the background bright and pale (along
         the lines of the effect you achieved with TooDark_Blend.psd), or by making it even
         darker and more dramatic. For the purposes of this exercise, we'll simply boost the
         contrast to increase the clarity of the architectural detail without really interfering
         with the lighting dynamics of the original image.
      
1 In the Layers panel, select the layer City. Choose Enhance > Adjust Lighting > Brightness/Contrast.
         Leave the Brightness setting unchanged, but increase the Contrast setting to a value
         of 50. Click OK. The buildings look clearer­ and more vibrant—without competing too
         much with the figures in the foreground.
      

With these few adjustments to the separate layers, the photograph now looks far more
         lively. There are still possibilities for improving the separated areas of the image;
         for example you could apply a Gaussian blur to the background to create a depth-of-field
         effect. There's also more you could do with blending modes and layer opacity—you'll
         learn more of those techniques as you work through this book.
      
2 Choose File > Save. Make sure that Include In The Elements Organizer option is activated
         and Save In Version Set With Original is disabled. Name the new file TooDark_LayerMasks and choose the Photoshop (PSD) format. Make sure the Layers option is activated,
         and then click Save. If the Format Options dialog box appears, activate Maximize Compatibility
         and click OK. Close the file.
      
3 In Lesson 5 you learned how to tile the image windows to best compare the results
         of different correction methods. Use that technique now to compare the six adjusted
         and saved versions of this photograph before moving on.
      


Improving faded or overexposed images
         
In this section, you'll work with the scan of a family keepsake in need of restoration.
            This badly faded photo has problems similar to those found in overexposed images,
            and will respond to the same correction techniques.
         


The automatic fixes applied to a copy at the beginning of this lesson improved the
         image markedly, but also removed the characteristic sepia tint, treating it as a color
         cast. In this project, you'll try to do even better using other correction techniques,
         while preserving the evocative antique look.
      
1 In the Organizer, isolate the Lesson 6 images, if necessary. In the Media Browser,
         select the file TooLight.jpg; then, click the Editor button () in the Taskbar.
      
2 If the Editor is not already in Expert mode, click Expert in the mode picker.
      
3 If you don't see the Photo Bin, show it by clicking the Photo Bin button () at the left of the Taskbar. If you don't see the filename beneath the thumbnail
         in the Photo Bin, right-click / Control-click the thumbnail and choose Show Filenames.
         Choose Window > Reset Panels, and then View > Fit On Screen.
      

Creating a set of duplicate files
You'll compare a variety of editing techniques during the course of this project.
            You can begin by creating a separate file to test each method, named for the technique
            it will demonstrate.
         

1 Right-click / Control-click the thumbnail image in the Photo Bin and choose Duplicate
         from the context menu. In the Duplicate Image dialog box, name the file TooLight_Shad-High; then, click OK. Repeat the process to create two more copies, with the names TooLight_Bright-Cont, and TooLight_Levels.
      
2 In the Photo Bin, click the thumbnail TooLight.jpg to make that image active and
         bring its image window to the front. If you can't see the whole filename under a thumbnail
         in the Photo Bin, hold the pointer over the thumbnail; the name of the file is displayed
         as a Tooltip.
      
3 Choose File > Save As. Select your My CIB Work folder as the destination for the
         new file, then activate Include In The Elements Organizer and disable the option Save
         In Version Set With Original. Type TooLight_Blend-Modes as the new filename and select Photoshop (PSD) from the Format menu. Click Save.
         Leave all four images open for the rest of this project.
      

Using blending modes to fix a faded image
The blending mode applied to a layer can make it interact with the layers beneath
            it in a variety of ways. The Multiply mode intensifies or darkens pixels in an image.
            The Overlay mode tends to brighten the image while preserving its tonal range.
         

1 Make sure that TooLight_Blend-Modes.psd is still the active image. If necessary,
         double-click its thumbnail in the Photo Bin to make it active. In the Layers panel
         right-click / Control-click the Background layer and choose Duplicate Layer from the
         context menu. Click OK in the Duplicate Layer dialog box to accept the default name
         "Background copy."
      
2 In the Layers panel, choose Multiply from the layer blending mode menu. Note the
         effect in the image window. Drag the Background copy layer with its Multiply blend
         mode onto the New Layer button () at the top of the Layers panel to create a copy of the Background copy layer.
      
3 Change the blending mode for the layer Background copy 2 from Multiply to Overlay,
         watching the effect on the image. Set the layer's Opacity value to 50%, either by dragging the Opacity slider or by typing the new value in the text field.
      



Adding a layer with the Multiply blending mode made the image bolder, and then the
         third layer in Overlay mode brightened it considerably and improved definition. Taken
         together, your changes have made the photo clearer, but the contrast in parts of the
         image, particularly in the lighter clothing, is still unimpressive.
      
4 Choose File > Save to save the file in your My CIB Work folder, leaving the image
         open. If a message appears about maximizing compatibility, click OK to close it, or
         follow the instructions in the message to prevent it from appearing again.
      

Adjusting shadows and highlights manually
Although both the Auto-fix and blending modes do a good job of correcting many fading
            images, some of your own photos may be more challenging. You'll try three more techniques
            in the exercises to follow. The first involves manually adjusting the Shadows, Highlights,
            and Midtone Contrast of the image.
         



 Tip
         
If you can't see the whole of the filename in the Project Bin, hold the pointer over
            the thumbnail; the name of the file is displayed as a Tooltip.
         


1 In the Photo Bin, click TooLight_Shad-High to make it the active image.
      
2 Choose Enhance > Adjust Lighting > Shadows/Highlights. If necessary, move the Shadows/Highlights
         dialog box so that it doesn't obscure the image window. Make sure that the Preview
         option is activated.
      
By default, the Lighten Shadows setting is 35%. You can see the effect on the image
         by toggling the Preview option on and off in the Shadows/Highlights dialog box.
      
3 In the Shadows/Highlights dialog box, set the Lighten Shadows value to 5%, the Darken Highlights value to 25%, and the Midtone Contrast to +75%.
      



 Tip
         
The controls you are using to make the adjustments for this technique are also available
            in the Lighting panel in Quick Fix mode.
         


4 Adjust the three settings as needed until you think the image is as good as it can
         be. When you're done, click OK to close the Shadows/Highlights dialog box.
      
5 Choose File > Save and save the file to your My CIB Work folder, in JPEG format.
         Make sure that the image will be included in the Organizer, but not in a Version Set.
         Click Save, and then click OK in the JPEG Options dialog box and leave the file open.
      

Adjusting brightness and contrast manually
The next approach you'll take to fixing an exposure problem makes use of another option
            from the Enhance > Adjust Lighting menu.
         

1 In the Photo Bin, click the image TooLight_Bright-Cont to make it active. If necessary,
         choose View > Fit On Screen or double-click the Hand tool.
      
2 Choose Enhance > Adjust Lighting > Brightness/Contrast. If necessary, drag the Brightness/Contrast
         dialog box to one side so that it doesn't block your view of the image. Make sure
         that the Preview option is activated so you can see the effects of your adjustments
         on the photo as you make them.
      
3 Drag the Brightness slider to -70, or type -70 in the text field, being careful to include the minus sign when you type. Increase
         the Contrast to 100.
      

4 Adjust the Brightness and Contrast settings until you are happy with the look of
         the image. Click OK to close the Brightness/Contrast dialog box.
      
5 Choose File > Save and save the file to your My CIB Work folder, in JPEG format.
         Make sure that the image will be included in the Organizer, but not in a Version Set;
         then, click Save. Click OK in the JPEG Options dialog box, but keep the file open.
      

Adjusting levels
The Levels controls affect the distribution of tonal values in an image—the range
            of tones from dark to light, regardless of color. In this exercise, you'll enhance
            the image by shifting the reference points that define the spread of those tonal values.
         

1 In the Photo Bin, click the image TooLight_Levels to make it active.
      
2 Choose Enhance > Adjust Lighting > Levels. Activate the Preview option in the Levels
         dialog box, if it is not already active. If necessary, drag the Levels dialog box
         aside so that you can also see most of the image window.
      

The Levels graph represents the distribution of tonal values across all the pixels
         in the image, from darkest at the left to lightest at the right. A trough (or gap)
         in the curve indicates that there are few (or no) pixels mapped to that part of the
         range; a peak shows the opposite.
      
As you can see from the graph, this image has no black pixels, very few tones of less
         than 40% brightness; most of the image information is clustered at the light end of
         the scale.
      
3 In the Levels dialog box, drag the black triangle below the left end of the graph
         to the right; the value in the first Input Levels box should be approximately 80. Drag the white marker from the right side of the graph until the value in the third
         Input Levels box is approximately 245. Drag the gray marker to set the midtones value to approximately 0.75. Click OK to close the Levels dialog box.
      

4 Choose File > Save and save the file to your My CIB Work folder in JPEG format as
         TooLight_Levels. Make sure that the image will be included in the Organizer, but not
         in a Version Set. Click Save; then, click OK in the JPEG Options dialog box and leave
         the file open.
      

Comparing results
You can now compare the six versions of the image: the original file, the four files
            you edited, and the image that was fixed automatically at the start of this lesson.
         

1 Choose File > Open. Locate and open the file TooLight_Autofix.jpg from the My CIB
         Work folder; then repeat the process for the original file from your Lesson 6 folder,
         TooLight.jpg. The Photo Bin should show six open files.
      
2 Click the Photo Bin button in the Taskbar to hide the Photo Bin; then, hide the Panel
         Bin by un-checking its name in the Window menu.
      
3 Choose Preferences > General from the Edit / Adobe Photoshop Elements Editor menu.
         Activate Allow Floating Documents In Expert Mode; then, click OK.
      
4 Choose Window > Images > Tile. Use the Zoom and Hand tools to position the photo
         in any of the image windows so that you can see enough of the image to enable you
         to make a comparison of the different treatments; then, choose Window > Images > Match
         Zoom and Window > Images > Match Location.
      
5 Choose File > Close All. Save any changes to your CIB Work folder if you're prompted
         to do so. On the General tab in the Editor's preferences dialog, disable Allow Floating
         Documents In Expert Mode; then, click OK.
      

More guided lighting solutions
         
Let's try a few more guided edits on an image with different lighting problems.

1 In the Organizer, select the image DSC_0347.jpg; then, click the Editor button. Switch
         to Guided edit mode and select the Color category.
      

Fluorescent lighting behind the translucent surface on which the bottles are standing
         has caused a combination of problems in this photo. The image not only has a dull,
         yellow-green color cast, but like many backlit photos, it's also underexposed—in auto-exposure
         mode, the camera has reduced the exposure in order to compensate for the brightness
         of the background.
      
2 Click to launch the Remove A Color Cast adjustment. Move the eyedropper over the
         image and click the translucent background between the bottles to reset the white
         point. Click Next; then, click Done.
      
3 Switch to the Basics category and launch the Brightness And Contrast adjustment.
         Click the Auto Fix button. Click the Next button, and then click Done.
      

4 Launch the Sharpen guided edit from the Basics pane. Drag the Zoom slider to 100%,
         or choose View > Actual Pixels; working at 1:1 zoom level will help you see the effect
         of the sharpening operation clearly. Drag the Sharpen slider to set a value of 230.
         Click the Next button; then, click Save As. Save the new file as DSC_0347_Guided, in JPEG format, with the usual settings, and then close it.
      


Removing haze and fog
         
Strictly speaking, our last photo for this lesson does not have an exposure problem,
            but it does exhibit some of the same deficiencies found in an over-exposed image.
            Distance haze, caused by water vapor suspended in the atmosphere, makes distant objects
            appear paler and less distinct than those closer to the viewer. For some photos, this
            can be perfectly acceptable, imparting a sense of scale and grandeur to an alpine
            vista, or adding to the steamy atmosphere of a tropical scene. In other cases, haze
            or fog may detract from an image by reducing contrast and clarity, and obscuring detail.
            The Haze Removal tool offers both automatic and manual modes that make it easy to
            correct the problem.
         


1 In the Organizer, select the image DSC_4567.jpg. Switch to the Editor in either Quick
         or Expert mode; the Haze Removal tool is available in both edit modes.
      
2 Choose Enhance > Haze Removal (not Auto Haze Removal). The Haze Removal dialog opens,
         with haze reduction already applied at the level that would have been implemented
         for the Auto Haze Removal adjustment.
      


 Tip
         
Cloudy skies are particularly prone to de-hazing artifacts; for some photos you may
            need to reduce the automatic settings.
         


3 Move both the Haze Reduction slider and the Sensitivity slider to the right to apply
         the maximum effect. You'll notice a marked improvement in the clarity and overall
         contrast of the image, though the sky takes on a slightly artificial look. Toggle
         the Before / After switch to assess the result; then, click OK.
      

4 (Optional) Choose Edit > Undo Haze Removal; then, use the Quick Selection tool to
         select the sky. Choose Select > Inverse, and then repeat steps 2 and 3.
      
5 Choose File > Save As. Name the file DSC_4567_Dehazed, and save it to your My CIB Work folder in JPEG format, to be included in the Organizer
         but not in a Version Set. Choose File > Close.
      


Review questions
1 How can you create an exact copy of an existing layer?
            


2 Where can you find the controls for adjusting the lighting in a photograph?
      
3 How can you arrange multiple image windows in the work area automatically?
      
4 What is an adjustment layer and what are its unique advantages?
      


Review answers
1 You must be in Expert mode to copy a layer. Select a layer in the Layers panel, and
               choose Layer > Duplicate Layer. You can access the same command in the Layers panel
               Options menu or by right-clicking / Control-clicking the layer in the Layers panel.
               Alternatively, drag the layer to the New Layer button. Whichever method you use, you
               get two layers identical in all but their names, stacked one above the other.
            


2 You can adjust the lighting for a photo in Expert, Guided edit, and Quick edit modes.
         In Expert mode, you can use the Enhance > Adjust Lighting menu to open various dialogs
         that contain the controls. Alternatively, you can choose Enhance > Auto Levels, Enhance
         > Auto Contrast, or Enhance > Adjust Color > Adjust Color Curves. In Guided edit mode,
         choose the Brightness and Contrast, Levels, or Lighten and Darken operations from
         the Basics category. In Quick edit mode, you can use the Exposure and Lighting panes
         in the Quick Fix panel.
      
3 You cannot rearrange image windows in Quick edit and Guided edit modes, which display
         only one photograph at a time. In the Expert workspace, there are several ways you
         can arrange them. Choose Window > Images, and select one of the choices listed there—you
         can access some of the same options, and several more, by clicking the Layout button
         in the Taskbar. Some of the options require that you enable floating windows in Expert
         mode, which can be done in the Preferences dialog.
      
4 An adjustment layer does not contain an image; instead, it modifies some quality
         of all the layers below it in the Layers panel. For example, a Brightness/Contrast
         layer will alter the brightness and contrast of any underlying layers. One advantage
         of using an adjustment layer instead of adjusting an existing layer directly is that
         adjustment layers can be easily modified or even removed. Toggle the eye icon for
         the adjustment layer to remove or restore the edit instantly. You can change a setting
         in an adjustment layer at any time—even after the file has been saved. An adjustment
         layer can also be copied and pasted into another image to apply the same settings
         there.
      







7. Reframing, Retouching, and Recomposing Images


Lesson overview
Some photos have image flaws other than color or lighting problems; a picture that
            was taken hurriedly might be spoiled by being tilted or poorly composed, and even
            a technically perfect exposure can be diminished by dust or water spots on the lens,
            blemishes on a portrait subject's skin, or an extraneous object cluttering the composition.
         
In this lesson, you'll learn a range of techniques for cropping, retouching, and rearranging
            the composition of such flawed images:
         
• Using the Straighten and Crop tools to re-frame an image
         
• Correcting perspective distortion
         
• Creating a photo border
         
• Improving the impact of an image with the Recompose tool
         
• Enhancing composition by repositioning objects in the frame
         
• Retouching skin with the Healing Brush tool
         
• Removing unwanted objects with content-aware healing
         
• Reinventing an image with creative effects
         

You'll probably need between one and two hours to complete this lesson. If you haven't
            already done so, log in to your peachpit.com account to download the lesson files for this chapter, or follow the instructions
            under "Accessing the Classroom in a Book Lesson Files" in the Getting Started section
            at the beginning of this book.
         



Photoshop Elements delivers a range of tools to help you bring out the potential in
            a photo, despite its flaws. The same tricks and techniques that enable you to remove
            or reposition an inconveniently placed object, retouch spots and blemishes in a portrait,
            or restore a treasured keepsake by repairing creases and tears can also be used creatively
            to manipulate reality in order to produce exactly the image you want.
         


Getting started
         
You'll begin by importing the sample images for this lesson to your CIB Catalog.



 Note
         
Before you start this lesson, make sure that you've set up a folder for your lesson
            files and downloaded the Lesson 7 folder from your Account page at www.peachpit.com, as detailed in" Accessing the Classroom in a Book Lesson Files" and" Creating a
            work folder" in the "Getting Started" section at the beginning  of this book. You
            should also have created a new catalog (see "Creating a catalog for working with this book" in Lesson 1).
         


1 Start Photoshop Elements and click Organizer in the Welcome Screen. Check the lower
         right corner of the Organizer workspace to make sure the CIB Catalog is loaded—if
         not, choose File > Manage Catalogs and select it from the list.
      
2 Click the Import button at the upper left of the Organizer workspace and choose From
         Files And Folders from the drop-down menu. In the Get Photos And Videos From Files
         And Folders dialog box, locate and select your Lesson 7 folder. Disable the option
         Get Photos From Subfolders and the automatic processing options; then, click Get Media.
      
3 In the Import Attached Keyword Tags dialog box, click Select All; then, click OK.
      

Improving the composition of a photo
When you're hurried, distracted by movement, or shooting in awkward conditions, the
            result is often a photo that could have been great—if only it had been framed better. The Crop tool and the Straighten
            tool in the Full Edit mode toolbar will help you turn the shot you got into the photo
            you should have captured.
         

Sometimes you're just too busy fitting everything you want into frame to notice a
         crooked horizon. The Straighten tool makes it easy to quickly correct a tilted image.
         The Crop tool can be customized, by choosing from a range of preset aspect ratios
         and cropping overlays to help you bring out the visual potential of your image.
      

Using the Straighten tool
You can use the Straighten tool to designate a feature in your crooked photo that
            should be either horizontal or vertical; then, Photoshop Elements will rotate the
            image to straighten it in relation to your reference line.
         

1 Select the image 07_01.jpg in the Media Browser, and then click the Editor button
         ()—not the arrow beside it—in the Taskbar. Alternately, you could select the file and
         choose Edit > Edit With Photoshop Elements Editor. If the Editor doesn't open to Expert
         mode, click Expert in the mode picker.
      
2 Choose Window > Reset Panels; then use the Window menu again to hide the Panel Bin.
         If either the Photo Bin or the tool options pane is currently open, click the corresponding
         button at the left of the Taskbar to hide it; then, choose View > Fit On Screen, or
         double-click the Hand tool to see the entire image at the highest magnification possible.
         Hold down the Ctrl / Command key and press the minus sign (-) key once to zoom out
         just enough to see a little of the blank artboard (colored gray by default) surrounding the photo in the Edit pane.
      

3 Select the Straighten tool () in the toolbar; then, click the Tool Options button () in the Taskbar, if necessary, to open the tool options pane. Make sure that the
         Straighten tool is set to Grow Or Shrink Canvas To Fit mode and the Autofill Edges
         option is disabled; then, hide the tool options pane.
      


 Tip
         
Choose Grow Or Shrink Canvas To Fit when you wish to crop the rotated image man-ually;
            the other options will trim it automatically.
         


This photo features a sea horizon—the most reliable of reference levels. In the absence
         of a natural horizon, you can often use a horizontal architectural feature.
      
4 Drag a long line along the horizon in the right half of the photo (at the left the
         horizon is hidden by the land in the middle distance). When you release the mouse
         button, Photoshop Elements straightens the image relative to the line you drew. Note
         the newly enlarged canvas surrounding the rotated image.
      

You could crop the straightened image manually to trim away the angled edges, but
         for the purposes of this exercise, you'll look at a couple of alternative options.
      

5 Press Ctrl+Z / Command+Z to undo the Straighten tool. Show the tool options pane
         and click the second of the three icons at the left to activate the Remove Background
         mode; then, use the Straighten tool to trace the horizon again. Photoshop Elements
         crops the largest area possible within the angled edges. Hide the tool options pane
         to examine the results.
      

6 Undo the operation; then, reset the Straighten tool to the Grow Or Shrink mode and
         activate the Autofill Edges option. Trace the horizon, and then inspect the results;
         rather than trimming the angled edges, Photoshop Elements has used content-aware image
         analysis to fill the white extended canvas that you saw in step 4 with detail that
         matches the image.
      
As you can see in the illustration at the right, this method has preserved all the
         detail of the original photo—especially important along the bottom, where cropping
         would affect the composition.
      
7 Choose Layer > Flatten Image; then, choose File > Save As. Name the new file 07_01_Straight,
         to be saved to your My CIB Work folder in JPEG format and included in the Organizer,
         but not in a Version Set. Click Save; then, click OK to accept the settings in the
         JPEG Options dialog box. Keep the file open.
      

8 Staying in the Editor, choose File > Open; then, navigate to and open your Lesson
         7 folder, select the file 07_02.jpg, and click Open.
      
In many photos it's difficult to identify a reliable horizontal reference; in these
         cases, you can look for a vertical feature such as a signpost or any structural element
         that isn't too obviously affected by perspective or lens distortion. For this image,
         where the horizon is not visible and almost every man-made horizontal is pictured
         in perspective, the tower provides the strongest reference.
      
9 With the Straighten tool () selected, open the tool options pane. Click the second of the three icons at the
         left to activate the Remove Background mode.
      
In Remove Background mode, the Autofill Edges option is disabled; for our lesson photo,
         Autofill Edges is likely to produce unwanted artifacts, especially in the cluttered
         detail of the lower right corner. The composition is unlikely to be diminished by
         trimming away the tilted edges after rotation, as the tower is the primary focus.
      


 Tip
         
The Straighten tool is also available in Quick edit mode, with a simplified set of
            controls in the tool options pane. When you've completed this exercise, try straightening
            the same images in Quick edit mode to see which you prefer.
         


10 Starting at the tip of the tower, drag a line down through the center of the structure.
         As the tower is stepped in towards the top and pictured in slight perspective, the
         bottom of your reference line should pass through the entrance arch a little to the
         right of center. When you're done, release the mouse button.
      



 Note
         
For some tilted images, you can achieve good results by choosing either Straighten
            Image, or Straighten And Crop Image from the Image > Rotate menu. Both of these commands
            perform straightening functions automatically.
         


11 Choose File > Save As. Name the file 07_02_Straight.jpg, to be saved to your My CIB
         Work folder in JPEG format and included in the Organizer, but not in a Version Set.
         Click Save; then, click OK to accept the settings in the JPEG Options dialog box.
         Choose File > Close.
      

Re-framing a photo with the Crop tool
         
Composing your photo well can make the difference between an ordinary snapshot and
            a striking, memorable image; framing too much irrelevant detail can detract from your
            intended focus, and an awkward arrangement of forms within the frame can make your
            picture appear unbalanced.
         

In practice, there's often just not enough time while you're shooting to frame a photo
         carefully; fortunately, you can use the Crop tool to improve the composition once
         you get home.
      
1 With the image 07_01_Straight.jpg open in the Editor, select the Crop tool ().
      
2 Inspect the settings in the tool options pane.
      



 Tip
         
Remember that you can use cropping not only to trim an image or change its aspect
            ratio, but also as a way to draw attention to your subject or improve the balance
            of your composition.
         


By default, the aspect ratio is set to No Restriction, which means that you're free
         to change the proportions of the crop, and the Grid Overlay is set to Rule Of Thirds,
         a layout guide based on the principle that a composition looks balanced when its elements
         are aligned with the lines and intersections of a grid that divides the image into
         three equal parts on both axes.
      
Photoshop Elements offers cropping suggestions to help you make a start. You may see
         a different set of suggested crops from those in the illustration above.
      
3 Hover the pointer over each crop suggestion in turn to see the effect.
      

4 Change the crop aspect ratio from No Restriction to Use Photo Ratio. Drag the corner
         handles of the cropping rectangle to set up a crop with the upper horizontal guide
         aligned with the horizon, the lower guide aligned with the top of the sea wall, and
         the vertical guide at the right passing between the girls. Click the Commit button
         () to execute the crop.
      
5 Choose File > Save As. Make sure that the new file will be included in the Organizer,
         but not in a Version Set. Name the file 07_01_Cropped.jpg, to be saved to your My
         CIB Work folder in JPEG format. Click Save; then, set the highest quality in the JPEG
         Options dialog box and click OK. Keep the saved file open for the next exercise.
      

Working with the image canvas
         
You can think of the image canvas as the equivalent of the paper on which a photo
            is printed. While you're working with a digital photo, image data may temporarily
            lie outside the canvas space, but it will be clipped to the canvas boundary as soon
            as the image is flattened. To extend our limited analogy just a little further, think
            of the layer data as the image projected by a photographic enlarger in the darkroom.
            Although the projected image may be offset or enlarged so that it falls outside the
            borders of the paper, the data still exists; you can continue to work with it right
            up until the moment that the photographic paper is exposed.
         



Adding a border to a photo
By default, the canvas is the same size as the image and is therefore not visible.
            If you increase the size of the image file, the canvas is enlarged automatically;
            however, you can also choose to enlarge the canvas independently of the image size,
            effectively adding a border around your photo—just as if you printed a photo on a
            sheet of paper larger than the image.
         

By default, the extended canvas, and therefore the border, takes on the Background
         color as set in the color swatches at the bottom of the toolbar.
      
1 With the image 07_01_Cropped.jpg still open and the Editor in Expert mode, double-click
         the Hand tool () or choose View > Fit On Screen. Use the Window menu to hide the Panel Bin, if necessary;
         then, hide the tool options pane by clicking the Tool Options button () at the left of the Taskbar.
      
2 If you don't see a reasonable amount of the blank gray background surrounding the
         image, hold down the Ctrl / Command key and press the Minus key (-) on your keyboard
         or choose View > Zoom Out.
      
3 Choose Image > Resize > Canvas Size. If necessary, move the Canvas Size dialog box
         aside so that you can see at least the left half of the image.
      

4 Set the Canvas Size dialog box as shown in the illustration at the right. Activate
         the Relative option; then, set the units menus to Inches, if necessary, and type a
         new value of 0.5 for both Width and Height. Leave the Anchor control at the default centered setting.
         Choose Black from the Canvas Extension Color menu, and then click OK.
      
The new black border appears around the photo in the image window. For the purposes
         of this exercise, we'll take it one step further, and extend the canvas again to turn
         the border into an asymmetrical frame.
      

5 Choose Image > Resize > Canvas Size. In the Canvas Size dialog box, confirm that
         the Relative check box is still activated. Leave the Width value at 0 and set the Height value to 1 inch. In the Anchor control grid diagram, click the central arrow in the top row.
         With this Anchor setting, the one-inch increase to the height of the canvas will be
         applied at the bottom edge of the image only. Leave the Canvas Extension Color setting
         unchanged and click OK.
      
6 If you can't see the entire border framing the image, double-click the Hand tool
         or choose View > Fit On Screen.
      

The extended border gives you space to add text to the image, making it an easy and
         effective way to create a postcard, a stylish cover page for a printed document, or
         a title screen for a slide show presentation.
      

Working with text
         
Whether you wish to fit an image to a specific purpose, or simply add a message, the
            Photoshop Elements type tools make it easy to create good-looking text.
         




 Tip
         
You can open the tool options pane by clicking the Tool Options button () in the Taskbar, or by double-clicking a tool in the toolbar.
         


1 In the toolbar, click to select the Horizontal Type tool (). In the tool options pane, choose Lithos Pro Regular from the Font menu. Type 57 pt in the Font Size box; then, press Enter / Return. Choose Center Text () from the text alignment options.
      

2 In the Tool Options bar, click the text color swatch below the font menus. As you
         move the pointer over the Color Swatches picker, it becomes an eye-dropper cursor.
         Use the eyedropper cursor to select the white swatch in the top row; then, press the
         Esc key to close the Color Swatches picker.
      
3 With the Type tool, click below the center of the black space beneath the photo and
         type GREETINGS FROM GREECE. Swipe over the text to select it. Click the foreground color swatch (now white)
         below the tools in the toolbar to open the Color Picker. Move the pointer over the
         image window; the cursor becomes an eyedropper.
      

4 Move the eyedropper over the orange flower near the girl at the left's shoulder.
         Refer to the illustration at the right; then, sample an ochre-gold and click OK in
         the Color Picker to close it.
      

5 Swipe over the word FROM to select it; then, click the foreground color swatch and
         use the eyedropper to sample a bright turquoise from the other girl's shirt. Click
         OK in the Color Picker to close it.
      
6 Click the green Commit button () at the lower right corner of the new text. Drag the text with the Move tool to center
         it. Use the handles on the text bounding box to resize it slightly if necessary; then
         commit the changes.
      
7 Choose File > Save As. Name the file 07_01_Greece and save it to your My CIB Work folder in Photoshop format with Layers activated,
         to be included in the Organizer, but not in a Version Set. Choose File > Close.
      



Adding a quick border
When precision isn't an issue, you can quickly add a border to an image by using the
            Crop tool, rather than increasing the size of the canvas.
         
1 Zoom out far enough so that you can see some of the blank art-board surrounding the
            image in the edit window.
         
2 Use the crop tool to drag a cropping rectangle right around the image.
         
3 Drag the corner handles of the crop marquee outside the image area onto the art-board
            to define the size and shape of border that you wish to create.
         

4 When you're satisfied, click the Commit button in the lower right corner of the image.
            The canvas expands to fill the cropping rectangle, taking on the background color
            set in the color swatch at the bottom of the toolbar.
         



Recomposing an image within its frame
         
Do you have a group shot where you wish the group had stood closer together? Or a
            photo where a walk-on extra draws attention away from the stars? With the Recompose
            tool you can fix these image composition problems in a few easy steps.
         



 Tip
         
As with the Healing brushes and the Clone Stamp tool that are covered later in this
            chapter, and the Photomerge tools that you'll use in Lesson 8, the Recompose tool
            is also a lot of fun to use creatively, enabling you to manipulate reality in order
            to produce the image you want.
         


Essentially, the Recompose tool enables you to crop your photo from the inside, rather than at the edges. Whether you want to bring people closer together, fit
         a horizontal image to a vertical space, or remove extraneous elements that spoil the
         composition, the Recompose tool puts image editing magic at your fingertips. In this
         exercise, you'll use the Recompose tool to tighten the arrangement of a group photo
         and reframe the landscape format to create a square composition.
      
1 If you're still in the Editor, click the Organizer button () in the Taskbar. If necessary, click the check box beside the Lesson 07 tag in the
         Tags panel to isolate the images for this lesson. Right-click / Control-click the
         image 07_03.jpg and choose Edit With Photoshop Elements Editor.
      
2 Make sure the Editor is in Expert mode; then, choose Window > Reset Panels. Hide
         the Panel Bin and the tool options pane, if it's visible. Double-click the Hand tool,
         or choose View > Fit On Screen; then, press Ctrl / Command together with the minus
         sign (-) key to zoom out just enough to see a little empty gray space around the photo
         in the Edit window.
      
3 Click the Recompose tool () in the toolbar. If necessary, click the Tool Options button () in the Taskbar to open the tool options pane.
      
A live bounding box now surrounds the image, with control handles at the corners and
         at the mid-point of each side. For simple recomposing operations, all you need to
         do is drag the handles; the Recompose tool makes use of content-aware ­scaling technology
         that distinguishes people and other featured objects and attempts to prevent them
         from being distorted as the background is compressed around them. For this exercise,
         however, we'll use the special Recompose brushes instead. For more complex images,
         this generally produces better results.
      


 Note
         
The Threshold control lets you adjust the degree to which content-aware scaling is
            applied as the image is "squeezed." At 100%, protected areas will be completely free
            of distortion when the photo is scaled. At a Threshold of 0%, the content-aware feature
            is turned off; scaling on one axis will "squash" pictured objects.
         


4 Select the Mark For Protection brush—the brush with a plus sign (+)—at the left of
         the tool options pane. Either type in the brush size text box or use the slider to
         increase the brush size to about 300 px. Make sure that the Threshold and aspect ratio are set to the default 100% and
         No Restriction, respectively.
      

As its name suggests, you can use the Mark For Protection brush to define those areas
         in the image that you want shielded from any scaling operation.
      
5 Click the Tool Options button () in the Taskbar to hide the tool options pane.
      

6 Paint over the girl at the left of the photo. Extend your strokes to the left edge
         of the image, as shown at the right: the girl is very close to the edge of the frame
         and unless this "buffer" area is protected it will be compressed during the recompose
         operation. If you find you've over-painted, use the eraser with the plus sign, beside
         the protection brush in the tool options pane to modify your strokes. Use the left
         and right bracket keys ([ , ]) to decrease or increase the size of the eraser as you
         work.
      


 Note
         
The green protection-brush over-lay is difficult to see against the grassy field in
            our lesson photo. For the sake of clarity, the surrounding image has been dimmed in
            these illustrations.
         



7 Right-click / Control-click the image and change the brush mode from the default
         Use Normal Highlight to Use Quick Highlight. In Quick Highlight mode you can mark
         an area for protection by simply drawing a line around it. Show the tool options pane
         for a moment to set the brush size to 50 px. Draw an outline to surround the three girls at the right, including the space
         between the group and the right edge of the photo. When you're done, release the mouse
         button; Photoshop Elements fills the area inside the outline automatically.
      



 Tip
         
If necessary, you can modify your Mark For Removal brush strokes with the associated
            eraser. Use the left and right bracket keys ([ , ]) to reduce or increase the brush
            size as you work.
         


8 Right-click / Control-click the image and reset the Recompose tool to the Use Normal
         Highlight mode. Show the tool options pane and select the Mark For Removal brush (the
         brush with a minus sign). Set the brush size to 100 px. Scribble through the space between the girl at the left and her sisters to mark
         the area for removal—rather than compression—during the scaling process.
      

9 Now for the fun part! Move the pointer over the handle on the left side of the bounding
         box and, when the double-arrow cursor appears, drag the handle slowly in towards the
         center of the photo. Watch the photo as you drag; some areas of the image are removed
         while others are compressed and merged with their surroundings. As the proportions
         of the image become closer to a square, keep an eye on the width (W) and height (H)
         values in the tool options pane; stop dragging and release the mouse button when the
         two values are equal.
      


 Tip
         
As this was a rather extreme editing operation, you may find some image artifacts,
            especially near the seam between areas that were removed or protected. If these are
            ­noticeable enough to worry you, a few strokes with the Clone Stamp or the Healing
            Brush will fix the problem. You'll learn more about those tools later in this lesson.
            Zoom in to inspect the seam. Try recomposing the image differently, marking a smaller
            area for removal, limiting your strokes to the patch separating the sisters, rather
            than the larger vertical strip.
         



10 Click the green Commit button at the lower right of the recomposed photo or press
         Enter / Return to accept and render the new composition.
      
11 Choose Image > Crop. A cropping box appears on the image; drag the handles to crop
         the file to the new square format, trimming away the transparent area. The edges of
         the cropping box snap to the edges of the image to make the operation very easy. Click
         the green Commit button or press Enter / Return.
      
12 Choose File > Save As. Name the image 07_03_Recomposed, to be saved to your My CIB Work folder and included in the Organizer, but not as
         part of a Version Set. Change the file format to JPEG. Click Save; then click OK to
         accept the JPEG quality settings. The recomposed image is saved as a copy. Choose
         Edit > Revert to restore the original photo, keeping it open for the next exercise.
      
The Recompose tool is as easy to use as it is powerful—with creative possibilities
         that are virtually limitless. Play with as many pictures as you can; you'll learn
         how content-aware ­scaling works and what to expect from different types of images
         as you have fun finding creative new ways to make the most of your photos.
      

Moving objects to enhance a composition
         
From Photoshop Elements 12, the Content-Aware Move tool lets you reposition an object
            within the frame, and then uses content-aware photo magic to cover your tracks, blending
            the object with its new surroundings and patching the hole it left.
         

The Content-Aware Move tool is perfect for dealing with objects that are too close
         to the edge of a photo or separated from the main action, enabling you to improve
         an unbalanced composition and turn a bystander into a star. In the first part of this
         exercise, you'll use the Content-Aware Move tool on the image from the previous project—this
         time, reuniting the sisters without altering the photo's proportions.
      
1 With the image 07_03.jpg still open in Expert mode in the Editor, double-click the
         Hand tool, if needed, to see the whole photo as large as possible; then, select the
         Content-Aware Move tool (), beside the Straighten tool in the Toolbar.
      

2 Open the tool options pane and make sure that the tool is set to Move mode, rather
         than Extend, and the Healing slider is set to the central stop. Draw loosely around
         the girl at the left. Include some of her surroundings in your selection, but draw
         the line closer at the right of the girl's form.
      
3 Click and hold inside the selection; then, hold down the shift key and drag the girl
         close to her sisters. The Shift key will constrain the movement horizontally, maintaining
         the girl's distance from the viewpoint. Release the mouse button, and then release
         the Shift key. Click the green check mark to commit the operation; the girl is blended
         into her new position and the hole she left filled with detail to match the surroundings.
         Click outside the selected area to deselect it.
      


 Tip
         
If the area from which the girls were moved is filled without any flowers at all,
            undo and vary the shape and size of your selection.
         


4 Draw around the four girls. Include a reasonable amount of the surrounding detail,
         except at the right where your line should follow the older girl's form closely. Click
         and hold inside the selection; then, hold the Shift key as you drag the sisters to
         the left to center them horizontally in the frame. Release the mouse button, then
         the Shift key. Commit the operation; then, deselect the group.
      

5 Choose File > Save As. Name the new image 07_03_Move-1, to be saved to your My CIB Work folder with all the usual settings. Activate the
         option Save > As A Copy; then, click Save. Click OK to accept the JPEG quality settings,
         and then choose Edit > Revert to restore the original photo, keeping it open for the
         next part of the exercise.
      
6 Draw around the girl at the left of the photo with the Content-Aware Move tool, just
         as you did in step 2, except that this time you can include the same amount of the
         surrounding area all of the way around her form.
      

7 Drag the selection on a downwards diagonal to the right. Position the girl about
         half as far from her sisters and the bottom edge of the photo as her original position.
      
8 Hold down the Alt / Option key as you drag a corner handle of the selection's bounding
         box to scale the selection up from its center. Watch the width and height values in
         the tool options pane and stop when they are close to 200%. Click and hold inside
         the selection; then, hold the shift key as you drag to center the girl below her three
         sisters. Click the green check mark to commit the transformation; then, click outside
         the selected area to deselect it.
      
9 Choose Image > Crop. In the tool options pane, set the cropping ratio to No Restriction.
         Starting outside the upper right corner of the photo, drag downwards and to the left
         to produce a balanced, portrait-format crop of the same height as the original image;
         then, commit the operation.
      

10 Choose File > Save As. Name the new image 07_03_Move-2, to be saved with all the usual settings. There is no need to save the image as a
         copy. Click Save; then, click OK to accept the JPEG settings and choose File > Close.
      
Experiment on your own photos with the Content-Aware Move tool to get a feel for its
         capabilities. Switch from Move to Extend mode to copy your selection, rather than
         merely move it. Tweak the Healing slider to improve a blend that is too obvious or
         produces artifacts; move the slider to the right to prioritize the selected content
         in the blend, or to the left to introduce more detail from the surroundings.
      

Changing the perspective in a photograph
         
The distortion caused by perspective can sometimes detract from the impact of a composition,
            especially when circumstances have made it impossible to capture the subject "head
            on."
         

From Photoshop Elements 12, the Crop tool has been enhanced with a new variant, the
         Perspective Crop tool, which makes it easy to correct perspective distortion and improve
         your composition by putting the subject front and center.
      
1 Select the image 07_10.jpg in the Media Browser, and then click the Editor button
         ()—not the arrow beside it—in the Taskbar. If the Editor is not already in Expert mode,
         click Expert in the mode picker. Hide the Panel Bin, if necessary, and then choose
         View > Fit On Screen.
      

2 Select the Crop tool (); then, select the Perspective Crop mode in the tool options pane. Click outside
         the upper left corner of the photo, and then drag the crop rectangle to cover the
         entire image.
      

3 Hold down the Shift key and drag the upper right handle of the crop rectangle to
         the left until the angle of the guides at the right matches that of the right edge
         of the sunlit wall. Drag the upper left handle, without the Shift key, so that the
         upper guide is aligned as closely as possible with the edge of the roof, and the angle
         of the left guide is consistent with the perspective in the pillar at the far left
         of the photo. Hold down the Shift key again as you drag the lower left handle up slightly
         to match the angle of the lines where the pavement meets the building.
      
4 Click the Commit button (); then, choose View > Fit On Screen. The areas outside the crop rectangle are trimmed
         away as the perspective is corrected.
      
5 Choose File > Save As. Name the new image 07_10_Perspective, to be saved with all the usual settings. There is no need to save the image as a
         copy. Click Save; then, click OK to accept the JPEG settings and choose File > Close.
      


Removing wrinkles and spots
         
Retouching skin to improve a portrait photograph can be a real art, but fortunately
            Photoshop Elements provides several tools that make it easy to smooth out lines and
            wrinkles, remove blemishes, and blend skin tones—even for a novice.
         

1 If you're still in the Editor, click the Organizer button () in the Taskbar. If necessary, click the check box beside the Lesson 07 tag in the
         Tags panel to isolate the images for this lesson. Right-click / Control-click the
         image 07_04.jpg and choose Edit With Photoshop Elements Editor.
      
2 Make sure that the Editor is in Expert mode. Choose Window > Reset Panels. If you
         don't see tabs for the Layers, Effects, Filters, Styles, and Graphics panels at the
         top of the Panel Bin, click the arrow beside the More button () in the Taskbar and choose Custom Workspace. Drag the Layers panel out of the Panel
         Bin; then, hide the Panel Bin by un-checking its name in the Window menu. Hide the
         Photo Bin or tool options pane, and then choose View > Fit On Screen.
      
3 Drag the Background layer to the New Layer button () at the top of the Layers panel to create a duplicate layer. Repeat the process,
         dragging the new layer to create a third layer. Resize the Layers panel by dragging
         its lower edge so that you can see your three layers. Use the Zoom tool () to zoom in on the upper half of the photo, as you'll be retouching the skin around
         the woman's eyes first.
      
This photo is quite a challenging candidate for retouching; the harsh flash lighting
         has caused strong reflections on the skin that only serve to accentuate the wrinkles.
      


Using the Healing Brush tool
         
You'll begin by using the Healing Brush to smooth the texture of the subject's skin.

1 Click to select the Healing Brush tool () or its variant, the Spot Healing Brush tool ()—whichever is currently visible beside the Red Eye Removal tool in the toolbar. If
         necessary, open the tool options pane at the bottom of the workspace.
      
2 Make sure that the tool is in Healing Brush mode, and then set the brush size to
         20 px. The Source option should be set to Sampled and the Mode to Normal. Make sure
         that the Aligned and Sample All Layers options are both disabled.
      


3 Make sure that the top layer, Background copy 2, is still active (selected). First,
         you need to define the area in the image that will be sampled as a reference texture
         for the Healing Brush operation; Alt-click / Option-click a smooth area on the left
         cheek. If you were to switch to another tool and then back to the Healing Brush, you
         would need to repeat this step.
      
4 Draw a short horizontal stroke under the left eye. As you drag, it may appear that
         the brush is creating a strange effect, but when you release the mouse button, the
         color will be blended and natural skin tones will fill the area.
      



 Tip
         
Use short brush strokes. Try just clicking rather than dragging, taking care to overlap
            your clicks to avoid a spotty effect. If you see results you don't like, check that
            the Aligned option is disabled in the tool options pane.
         


5 Continue to smooth the skin on the face with the Healing Brush. Avoid areas very
         close to the eyes, shadowed areas, and the hairline. You can also reduce the worst
         of the shine caused by the harsh flash. As you work, re-establish the reference area
         occasionally by Alt-clicking / Option-clicking in new areas of the face to sample
         appropriate skin tone and texture. Press the left and right bracket keys ([ , ]) to
         decrease or increase the brush size as you work. Be sure to remove the moles on the
         woman's right cheek and the spots on her left cheek and just below the lower lip.
         You can use the same techniques on the neck.
      
Long strokes may produce unacceptable results—especially near shaded areas where the
         darker tones may spread. If that happens, choose Edit > Undo Healing Brush. Try setting
         the brush to a smaller size or reversing the direction of your strokes. If the problem
         is related to the shadowed areas beside the nose or at the sides of the face, try
         stroking towards the shadows rather than away from them, or temporarily changing the
         mode for the Healing Brush tool from Normal to Lighten in the tool options pane.
      

6 Choose Window > History. In the History Panel, every action you perform is recorded
         in chronological order, from the earliest at the top to the most recent at the bottom
         of the list. You can use the History panel to quickly undo a series of steps or to
         assess the success of your edits. To restore the file to an earlier state, simply
         select an earlier (higher) action in the History list.
      
Until you make further changes to the file, you can still return the image to a more
         recent state by selecting a step lower in the list. Once you've used the History panel
         to restore a photo to an earlier state, any change you make to the image will replace
         all the actions in the more recent history.
      

Refining the Healing Brush results
The Healing Brush tool copies texture from the source area, not color. It samples the colors in the target area—the area
            that you're brushing—and arranges those colors according to the texture sampled from
            the reference area. Consequently, the Healing Brush tool appears to be smoothing the
            skin. So far however, the results are not convincingly realistic.
         

In this exercise, you'll make your retouching work look a little more natural by altering
         the opacity of the layer you've been working on, and then use another of the texture
         tools to refine the resulting blend.
      

1 Click the Navigator tab, beside the History tab in the floating panel group. In the
         Navigator panel, use the zoom slider and drag the red frame in the preview to focus
         the view in the image window on the area around the woman's eyes and mouth.
      
Extensive retouching can leave skin looking artificially smooth, looking a little
         like molded plastic. Reducing the opacity of the retouched layer will give the skin
         a more realistic look by allowing some of the wrinkles on the un-edited Background
         layer to show through.
      
2 In the Layers panel, change the Opacity of the layer "Background copy 2" to about
         50%, using your own judgment to set the exact percentage.
      
We opted for quite a low setting, intending a fairly natural look for this photo of
         a friend, but the opacity value you set will depend on the extent of your retouching
         and the purpose for which the edited image is intended.
      
The opacity change restores some realism, but three noticeable blemishes have also
         made a reappearance—one on each cheek and one just below the lower lip.
      
3 In the Layers panel, select the layer "Background copy" to make it active.
      


 Tip
         
To remove spots and small blemishes in your photo, try the Spot Healing Brush in Proximity
            Match mode as an alternative to the Healing Brush. With the Spot Healing Brush, you
            can either click or drag to smooth away imperfections without needing to set a reference
            point.
         


4 Set the brush size for the Healing Brush tool to 20 px and click once or twice on each blemish. Gone!
      
5 In the toolbar, select the Blur tool (). In the tool options pane, set the brush size to approximately 13 px, the Mode to Normal, and the Strength to 50%.
      
6 With the layer "Background copy" still active, drag the Blur tool over some of the
         deeper lines around the eyes and brow. Use the Navigator panel to change the zoom
         level and shift the focus as needed. Reduce the Blur tool brush diameter to 7 px and smooth the lips a little, avoiding the edges.
      
Compare your results to those below—the original, the version retouched with the Healing
         Brush, and final refined version. Toggle the visibility of your retouched layers to
         compare the original image in your Background layer with the edited results.
      





 Tip
         
For a quick and easy solution to portrait retouching, try the Perfect Portrait procedure
            listed under Special Edits in the Guided edit mode, where you'll be stepped through
            smoothing skin, removing spots, fixing red eye, increasing definition in facial features,
            whitening teeth, and even slimming your subject!
         


7 Choose File > Save As. Make sure that the new file will be included in the Organizer,
         but not in a Version Set. Name the edited image 07_04_Retouch, to be saved to your My CIB Work folder in Photoshop (PSD) format.
      
8 Make sure that the Layers option is activated, and then click Save.
      
9 Choose File > Close.
      
In this exercise, you've learned how to set an appropriate source reference for the
         Healing Brush tool, and then sample the texture of the source area to repair flaws
         in another part of the photograph. You also used the Blur tool to smooth textures,
         and an opacity change to achieve a more realistic look. You've also gained a little
         experience in working with both the History and Navigator panels.
      

Removing unwanted objects from images
         
The impact of a photo can easily be spoiled by an unwanted object in the frame. In
            the modern world, it's often difficult to photograph even a remote landscape without
            capturing a fence, power lines, satellite dishes, or litter—mundane clutter that can
            reduce the drama of an otherwise perfect shot.
         


Photoshop Elements offers several tools to help you improve an image by getting rid
         of extraneous detail. As you've seen, the Recompose tool lets you remove areas as
         you scale a photo. In this set of exercises you'll use the Spot Healing Brush tool
         to remove an object without altering the overall composition.
      
1 If you're still in the Editor, switch to the Organizer by clicking the Organizer
         button () in the Taskbar at the bottom of the workspace. If necessary, click the check box
         beside the Lesson 07 tag in the Tags panel, to isolate the Lesson 7 images in the
         Media Browser. Right-click / Control-click the photo 07_05.jpg and choose Edit With
         Photoshop Elements Editor.
      
2 Make sure the Editor is in Expert mode; then, choose Window > Reset Panels. Hide
         the Panel Bin and the Photo Bin. Select the Healing Brush tool () or its variant, the Spot Healing Brush tool ()—whichever is currently visible in the toolbar. If necessary, click the Tool Options
         button () in the Taskbar open the tool options pane.
      

Using the Content-Aware healing feature
In the last project, you may have used the Spot Healing Brush in Proximity Match mode
            to help smooth skin blemishes in a portrait photo. In this exercise you'll set the
            Spot Healing Brush to Content-Aware mode.
         

In Content-Aware mode, the Spot Healing Brush tool compares nearby image content to
         fill the area under the pointer, seamlessly matching details such as shadows, object
         edges, and even man-made patterns like brick-work or wooden decking shot in perspective,
         as shown in the illustration at the left.
      



 Note
         
Depending on your operating system and whether you have a graphics tablet, your brush
            shape may differ from that illustrated.
         


1 In the tool options pane, check the header and buttons at the left to make sure the
         Spot Healing Brush tool () is the active variant, and see that the tool is set to Content-Aware mode. Set the
         brush size to 100 pixels.
      

2 Press the Z key to switch to the Zoom tool, and then drag a zoom marquee to zoom
         in on the signpost and a little of the sky above it. Press the J key to reactivate
         the Spot Healing Brush. Center the circular cursor over the top of the signpost and
         drag downwards, stopping just before you reach the yellow sign.
      

3 Press the right bracket key (]) six times to increase the brush size to 300 pixels.
         Center the cursor over the yellow sign (the horizon should bisect the circle) and
         click once; then, center the cursor over the smaller sign and click again.
      

4 Press the left bracket key ([) ten times to reduce the brush size to 60 pixels; then,
         make a short downward stroke to remove the remnants of the signpost, stopping just
         before you reach the top of the litter bin.
      


 Tip
         
Try to limit your-self to as few of these repairs as possible; two or three should
            suffice. The more you interfere, the more likely you are to introduce problems.
         


5 Use the Zoom and Hand tools to focus on the area previously occupied by the late
         signpost. If you see any noticeable artifacts, such as blurring or misaligned texture,
         press the J key to reactivate the Spot Healing Brush and click or make very short
         strokes to remove them. If a stroke fails, or makes things worse, undo and try again,
         resizing the brush and varying the stroke direction as needed.
      


 Note
         
It may take more than the six spot healing clicks illustrated here to clear the litter
            bin's shadow smoothly; we used ten overlapping clicks to achieve a satisfactory result.
         


6 In the tool options pane, set the brush size to 100 pixels. Focus your view on the shadow of the litter bin. Starting at the right, make
         a series of overlapping clicks, keeping the brush on the grass. Don't be concerned
         about a little repeated detail, but undo and try again if you introduce any of the
         rocky foreshore.
      

7 If your overlapping spots have produced noticeable smears or obvious repetition of
         detail, reduce the brush size to around 50 pixels and remove them; very short strokes
         should do the trick, if single clicks are not enough. You can remove the scraps of
         white litter at the roadside while you're at it, if you don't mind.
      
8 In the tool options pane, set the brush size to 350 pixels. Drag down over the litter bin, starting below the crest of the wave behind
         it and ending your stroke before you reach the gold band near the base as shown at
         the left, below.
      
9 Make a short horizontal stroke with a 250-pixel brush to remove the base of the bin;
         then break up any misplaced detail using a few clicks with a smaller brush.
      

As you've just discovered, the Spot Healing Brush in content-aware mode enables you
         to remove even a very prominent, irregularly shaped, shadowed object from a complex
         background quickly and easily, without the need to make fussy selections.
      

10 When you're done, choose View > Fit On Screen. Choose File > Save As. Name the new
         file 07_05_DumpingOK, to be saved to your My CIB Work folder in JPEG format, and included in the Organizer,
         but not in a Version Set. Click Save. Click OK to accept the JPEG Options settings;
         then, close the file.
      

Creative fun with Guided edits
         
The Guided edit mode offers far more than just correction, adjustment, and retouching
            tasks. In the Fun Edits and Special Edits categories you'll find guided procedures
            that let you experiment with a range of striking and unusual creative treatments for
            your photos—all presented with step-by-step instructions.
         

1 In the Media Browser, isolate the Lesson 7 images, if necessary, and select the image
         07_06.jpg, a photograph of two girls riding unicycles. Click the Editor button () in the Taskbar.
      
2 In the Editor, switch to Guided edit mode by clicking Guided in the mode picker at
         the top of the workspace; then, choose the Fun Edits category from the bar above the
         preview pane. Hide the Photo Bin, if it's open, and then click the fourth preview
         to launch the Out Of Bounds effect.
      

3 Follow the instructions in the Out Of Bounds pane at the right. Start by clicking
         Add Frame, and then let Guided Edit step you through the process of setting up the
         frame as you see in the illustration below. When you're happy with the frame, click
         the green Commit button () at the lower right corner.
      



 Tip
         
Remember these pointers when you're using the Quick Selection tool during this guided
            edit:
         
• Use Ctrl / Command+[ to decrease the brush size, Ctrl / Command+] to increase it.
• Hold down the Alt / Option key to subtract from the selection.
• Difficult selections can be made much easier by making use of the Auto-Enhance and
            Refine Edge options in the tool options pane below the Edit window.
         


4 Continue with the guided steps until you can replicate something similar to what
         you see in the illustration below; then, click Done. Don't be discouraged if you need
         a few attempts—with a little practice you'll get great results.
      

5 Choose the Next button; then, click Save As. Activate the option Include In The Elements
         Organizer and disable Save In Version Set With Original. Name the file appropriately,
         and then save it to your My CIB Work folder. Close the file.
      

Accelerating an action shot
The Fun Edits category in Guided Edit mode offers a suite of three dynamic effects
            that can add a sense of speed and excitement to your action photos—or even create
            the illusion of motion to liven up a static shot.
         


Traditionally produced by zooming in on a subject manually while the shutter is open,
         the Zoom Burst effect creates an impression of speedy motion towards—or away from—the
         camera. As a bonus, the limited area of focus serves to draw attention to the subject.
      
Both of the other dynamic effects create the impression of motion across the picture plane. The first of these, the Speed Effect, applies a motion blur to
         a selected subject in the direction of your choice, so that the subject appears to
         be moving past a stationary camera.
      
In this exercise, we'll look at the Speed Pan effect, which applies a motion blur
         to the background rather than to the moving subject, giving the appearance that the camera has "panned"
         to follow the action, keeping the subject in focus.
      
1 In the Organizer, select the image 07_07.jpg; then, click the Editor button (). If you're not in Guided edit mode from the last exercise, switch modes now and
         click the Fun Edits tab above the preview pane.
      
2 Click the Speed Pan effect—the second-last guided project on the Fun Edits tab. In
         the panel at the right, click the Quick Selection Tool button. By default, the tool
         opens in Add mode.
      


 Tip
         
If you select part of the background, hold the Alt / Option key to temporarily switch
            to Subtract mode. If necessary, use the Zoom slider for a closer view, the spacebar
            to temporarily activate the Hand tool, and the left and right bracket keys ([ , ])
            to reduce or increase the brush size as you work.
         


3 Drag to select the girl and the toy car, releasing the mouse button every few seconds,
         so that you don't lose too much work should you need to undo. Pay attention to the
         girl's face and hair, the spaces around her hands and the steering wheel, and the
         chromed bar that represents the windscreen. Make sure that the shadowed area under
         the car remains unselected.
      
4 Click the Add Motion Blur button. Increase the Intensity setting to around 180 and drag the Angle control just a few degrees counterclockwise.
      
5 Click the Refine Effect Brush button; the tool opens in Subtract mode, ready to clear
         the motion blur from areas where it's not wanted. Use the brush at full opacity to
         deal with any blurring of the girl or the car. Switch the brush to Add mode and paint
         over any background areas around the borders of your selection that remain unblurred.
         Set the brush size to 100 and reduce the opacity to 50%; then experiment with adding a little blur to the trailing edge of the selection;
         you can undo your brush strokes if you're not happy with the results.
      

6 Click Next at the bottom of the panel; then, click the Save As button. Name the file
         07_07_SpeedPan, and save it to your My CIB Work folder in Photoshop (PSD) format, with the Layers
         option enabled. Include the new image in the Organizer but not in a Version Set. Choose
         File > Close, or click the Close button (X) at the upper right of the Guided Edit
         preview pane.
      

Making an instant effects collage
         
Many of the Guided Edit procedures enable you to apply creative touches that can add
            style, impact, or humour to any image in just a few clicks. You can convert a photo
            to a pencil drawing with the Line Drawing effect, highlight your subject with a graphic
            shape overlay, add brush strokes and texture with the Painterly effect, transform
            a photo into a watercolor or a pop art masterpiece, or even make it look like an unfinished
            jigsaw puzzle! In this exercise, you'll try the Effects Collage project.
         


1 In the Organizer, select the image 07_08.jpg; then, click the Editor button (). If you're not in Guided edit mode from the last exercise, switch modes now. Click
         the Effects Collage preview in the Fun Edits category to start the project.
      

2 The first step is to choose a layout for your collage. In the Effects Collage pane,
         the layout presets are grouped by number of sections. Click through a few of the options
         to see how the layouts fit with the lesson photo; then, select a preset. We chose
         the 4 Sections, Horizontal layout.
      
3 Click the colored preview thumbnail and sample a few of the style presets, each of
         which will apply a different effect to each section of your design. Choose a style
         preset; then, experiment with the Opacity slider.
      


 Note
         
Every photo responds differently to the effects applied by the various style presets.
            If you would prefer to replace one or more sections of your collage with an effect
            you saw in another style preset, run this exercise again using a different style with
            the same layout, making sure to name the saved file differently. Open both saved files
            in Expert mode; then, cut and paste from one collage to the other.
         



4 When you're happy with the results, click the Next button at the lower right; then,
         click Save As. Name the file 07_08_Collage, and save it to your My CIB Work folder in Photoshop (PSD) format, with Layers enabled.
         Include the new image in the Organizer but not in a Version Set; then, close the file.
      

Combining photos for a double exposure effect
         
New in Photoshop Elements 2018, the Double Exposure guided edit enables you to merge
            two images in a variety of striking ways to create atmospheric, evocative picture-stories,
            or surreal, dream-like effects.
         

1 In the Organizer, select the image 07_11.jpg; then, click the Editor button (). If you're not already in Guided edit mode, switch modes now. Click the preview
         for the Double Exposure effect in the Fun Edits category to start the project.
      



 Note
         
The superimposed image will not show through any part of the base photo that is pure
            white; it will appear most clearly against the darkest areas. In these before and
            after preview images, you can see that the overlaid image is excluded from the composite,
            not only by the white background around the woman, but also by her white shirt.
         


The first two steps in this guided edit are not strictly essential; once you are familiar
         with the process you may choose to skip them, depending on the images you're working
         with and the effect you wish to achieve. Step 1 asks you to use the Crop tool to center
         your subject; in Step 2, you select the subject, either by dragging a selection rectangle
         with the Auto Selection tool or painting a selection onto the photo with the Quick
         Selection tool. The effect is as you see in the before and after previews; the background
         around the selected subject is replaced by white and the overlaid image is visible
         only inside the selection.
      
For our lesson image, neither of these steps would have any effect; the subject of
         our studio portrait is already centered and surrounded by a white background. We'll
         start with the third step; choosing a second photo to create the effect.
      

2 In the Double Exposure pane, click each of the three preset images (Forest, City,
         and Cloud) to see how well they work with our base photo; use the Intensity slider
         to control the way the photos are merged.
      


The two lesson images work quite well together, but the superimposed rose is obscuring
            too much of the girl's face; we'll try altering the blend intensity and use the Move
            tool to adjust the alignment.
         

3 Click the Import A Photo button; then, locate and open the folder Extras inside your
         Lesson 7 folder. Select the image DSC_0229.jpg, and then click Place.
      
4 Use the slider below the preset thumbnails to reduce the intensity of the superimposed
         image to 92%; the numerical value is displayed in a tooltip as you drag.
      
5 Choose View > Zoom Out. Click the Move tool provided in the Double Exposure pane.
         Drag the center handle on the top edge of the bounding box upward until the tooltip
         displays a height (H) value of 7.4 inches. Drag the center handle on the lower edge
         of the bounding box down to set a height (H) value of 8.2 inches.
      
6 Click on the image, and then hold Shift as you press the right arrow key four times
         to nudge the image to the right. Drag the center handle on the left edge of the bounding
         box to the right to set a width (W) value of 9.8 inches. Click the green check mark
         () at the lower right of the preview to commit the changes.
      


 Tip
         
If you wish to try the other effects, be sure to clear each before applying the next.
            To do this, click the No Effect thumbnail at the upper left of the effects palette.
         



7 	Click the Effects button; then click the thumbnail at the upper right.
      
The images are better aligned, but the girl's nose is still obscured. We'll switch
         to Expert mode, where we can correct the problem in the Layers panel.
      
8 Click Next at the lower right of the workspace; then, under Continue Editing, choose
         In Expert. If necessary, choose Window > Layers. In the Layers panel, click the layer
         Screen Mode—the higher of the two layers with the rose image.
      
9 Select the Eraser tool in the toolbox. In the Tool Options pane, choose a soft-edged
         brush. Set the size of the brush to 220 pixels and its opacity to 75%; then, make
         three or four passes across the girl's cheeks and nose. Reduce the brush size to 60
         pixels and its opacity to 60%; then, use three or four clicks or short strokes in
         each eye to reveal a little more of the girl's pupils and lashes.
      

10 Choose File > Save As. Save the file with all its layers in Photoshop format, with
         an appropriate name and all the usual settings; then, choose File > Close.
      

Creating effects with filters
         
The guided edits in the Photo Effects and Photo Play category give an image a completely
            new look by applying several adjustments and filters in combination. You can have
            a lot of fun devising your own special effects and sophisticated photo treatments
            in the Filter Gallery, where you can combine multiple filters and tweak the way that
            they work together to create unique new custom effects.
         


You can use the Filter Gallery to reinterpret an image and present it in an entirely
         new light. This can be a great way to redeem a technically inferior photo, enabling
         you to turn even a flawed or uninteresting image into a work of art. The possibilities
         are limitless!
      
Before exploring the Filter Gallery, you can set up a work file with some extra layers
         for working copies of the image.
      
1 In the Organizer, isolate the images for this lesson, if necessary, by clicking either
         the Lesson 7 folder in the left panel's My Folders list or the check box beside the
         Lesson 07 keyword in the Tags panel. Right-click / Control-click the image 07_09.jpg
         in the Media Browser and choose Edit With Photoshop Elements Editor from the context
         menu. Make sure that the Editor is in Expert mode, and then choose Window > Reset
         Panels.
      

2 Many filters make use of the foreground and background colors set in the toolbar
         to create effects, so you can start by resetting them to the default black and white.
         Click the Default Foreground And Background Colors button beside the overlapping swatches
         at the bottom of the toolbox; then, click the arrows to switch the foreground and
         background colors.
      

3 Drag the Background layer to the New Layer button () at the left of the Layers panel's header to create a second layer. Drag the Background
         copy layer to the New Layer button to create a third layer. Click the eye icon () beside the top layer, Background copy 2, to hide it from view in the image window.
         Click the middle layer, Background copy, to make it active for editing.
      
4 If you don't see the Quick Selection tool () at the right of the Lasso tool in the toolbar's Select category, Alt-click / Option
         click whichever tool is currently active to cycle through the variants until the Quick
         Selection tool is foremost.
      
5 With the Quick Selection tool, select the girl's lips, and also the wreath of flowers
         and leaves on her head. Use the left and right square bracket keys ([ , ]) to decrease
         or increase the brush size as you work. Hold down the Alt / Option key as you paint
         to subtract from your selection.
      
6 When the selection is complete, choose Select > Refine Edge or click the Refine Edge
         button in the tool options bar. In the Refine Edge dialog box, set both the Smooth
         and Contrast values to 0, the Feather amount to 1 px, and the Shift Edge value to 1%. These settings will soften the edges of the selection, without reducing its effective
         area. Click OK.
      

7 Choose Select > Save Selection. Name the new selection color details. Under Operation, activate New Selection; then, click OK. Choose Select > Deselect.
      
8 Choose File > Save As. Name the file 07_09_Work, to be saved to your My CIB Work folder in Photoshop format, with layers intact.
         Make sure the image will be included in the Organizer, but not as part of a Version
         Set; then, click Save.
      

Using the Filter Gallery
1 Choose Filter > Filter Gallery. If necessary, use the menu at the lower left of the
            Filter Gallery window to set the magnification to 100%. If you can't see the whole
            photo, drag in the preview pane so that most of the girl's face is visible.
         



 Tip
         
The most reliable way to assess the effects of the filters as you work is to set the
            zoom level to 100%.
         



2 If you don't see the center pane with its list of filter categories, click the arrow
         beside the OK button at the upper right.
      


 Tip
         
The filters you see in the Filter Gallery (and many more) can also be accessed in
            the Expert mode's Filters panel. Choosing a filter from the Filters panel opens controls
            that let you specify just how the effect is applied. If you prefer to work this way,
            you can use multiple filters, applying each to a separate copy layer; then, use the
            layer stacking order, opacity, and blending modes to adjust the mix.
         


3 If you see more than one filter listed in the right pane, select the top filter and
         click the Trash icon to delete it. In the center pane, expand the Artistic category
         and choose the Watercolor filter. Experiment with the full range of the sliders. Set
         the Brush Detail to 5, the Shadow Intensity to 3, and the Texture to 2.
      



 Tip
         
In the Filter Gallery, you can com-bine as many filters as you wish, building up your
            own complex custom effects.
         


4 Click the New Effect layer button () below the right pane in the Filter Gallery dialog box. Collapse the Artistic category;
         then, expand the Texture category and choose the Texturizer filter. The Watercolor
         and Texturizer filters are applied simultaneously. Choose Canvas from the Texture
         menu; then, set the Scaling value to 100% and the Relief to 4. From the Light menu, choose Top Left.
      


5 Click OK. The combined Watercolor and Texturizer filters are applied to the layer
         Background copy. From the Enhance menu, choose Adjust Color > Remove Color; then,
         choose Adjust Lighting > Brightness/Contrast. Set the values for both Brightness and
         Contrast to 50, and then click OK.
      

Layering filters and effects
Although the Filter gallery offers endless possibilities for combining filters, you
            can achieve even more sophisticated results by using the Filter Gallery in tandem
            with the Layers panel—applying combinations of filters to multiple duplicate layers,
            and then blending the layers using partial transparency, blending modes, or masks.
         



 Tip
         
If you've set up an effect that looks great in the background, but makes the faces
            of your subjects unrecognizable, use layer masks to separate the subjects from the
            background, and then apply the same set of filters to each part of the image at different
            settings.
         


1 Click the eye icon beside the layer Background copy 2 to make it visible; then, click
         the layer thumbnail to make it active. Reverse the swatches at the bottom of the toolbar
         so that the background color is white. Choose Filter > Filter Gallery. Be careful
         to choose the second listing for the Filter Gallery—the first listing simply applies
         the previous settings without opening the Filter Gallery.
      



 Note
         
The stacking order of filters in the list in the Filter Gallery will alter the way
            they interact, though this may be more noticeable with some filters than others. You
            can change the order of the filters by simply dragging them in the list.
         


2 The Filter Gallery window opens with your previous filters, and all their settings,
         exactly as you left them. Click the New Effect Layer button again. Expand the Distort
         category and choose the Diffuse Glow filter. Set the Graininess value to 10, and both the Glow Amount and Clear Amount to 15. Click OK.
      
3 In the Layers panel, select the layer Background copy. At the top of the panel, decrease
         the layer's opacity to 70%. Select the top layer, Background copy 2. Choose Overlay from the Blending Mode
         menu and then set the opacity to 30%.
      
4 Right-click / Control-click the layer Background copy 2 and choose Duplicate Layer
         from the context menu. In the Duplicate Layer dialog box, type Color Details as the name for the new layer, and then click OK. Change the new layer's blending
         mode to Multiply, and its opacity to 70%.
      
5 Choose Select > Load Selection. In the Load Selection dialog box, choose your saved
         selection, color details, from the Selection menu under Source. Make sure the New
         Selection option is activated under Operation, and then click OK. With the top layer
         selected in the Layers panel, click the Add Layer Mask button () at the top of the panel. The selection is converted to a layer mask.
      
In the Layers panel, a layer mask icon is added to the top layer, color details, which
         is now masked so that only the girl's lips and the flowers on her head remain visible.
      

6 Toggle the visibility of each layer in turn, watching the effect in the Edit window.
         Choose File > Save, and then close the file.
      


Review questions
1 Dragging in a tilted image with the Straighten tool designates a reference in relation
               to which your photo will be rotated. What are the best references to look for?
            


2 What is the purpose of the grid overlays offered in the tool options pane when you
         select the Crop tool?
      
3 How do you use the different brushes and erasers that appear in the tool options
         pane when you select the Recompose tool?
      
4 How can you quickly undo a whole series of edit steps at once?
      
5 What are the similarities and differences between the Healing Brush tool and the
         Spot Healing Brush tool for retouching photos?
      


Review answers
1 The most reliable reference for straightening a tilted photo is a sea horizon line.
               In the absence of a natural horizon, you can often use either horizontal or vertical
               architectural features—or structural elements such as signposts and flag poles—as
               long as they are not pictured in perspective, or too obviously affected by lens distortion.
            

2 The Crop tool's grid overlays can guide you in framing a balanced composition. The
            Rule of Thirds overlay divides the image horizontally and vertically into three equal
            parts; according to this rule, objects look more balanced when aligned with the lines
            and intersections of the grid.
         
3 Use the Mark for Protection brush to define areas in the image that you wish to protect
            from a scaling operation. Use the Mark for Removal brush to define any areas that
            you want removed from the image; the Recompose tool will cut those areas before compressing
            others. Each of the Recompose brushes has its associated eraser.
         
4 The History panel lists every action performed in chronological order. To restore
            the file to an earlier state, select an action higher in the list. Until you make
            further changes, you can restore the image to a later state by selecting a step lower
            in the list.
         
5 Both healing tools blend pixels from one part of an image into another. Although
            the Spot Healing Brush tool enables you to remove blemishes more quickly than is possible
            with the Healing Brush, the Healing Brush can be customized, and enables you to specify
            the source reference area, giving you more control.
         








8. Combining Images


Lesson overview
Although you can do a lot to improve a photo with tonal adjustments, color corrections,
            and retouching, sometimes the best way to produce the perfect image is simply to fake
            it! Photoshop Elements delivers powerful tools that enable you to do just that by
            combining images.
         
Merge ordinary scenic photos into a stunning panorama that truly recaptures the feel
            of the ­location—or blend differently exposed pictures to conquer difficult lighting
            conditions. Move objects from one image to another—or combine a series of shots to
            produce the perfect group photo, where everybody is smiling with open eyes.
         
In this lesson, you'll learn some of the tricks you'll need for combining images to
            put together the perfect shot that you didn't actually get:
         
• Merging a series of photos into a panorama
         
• Assembling the perfect group shot
         
• Removing unwanted elements
         
• Blending differently exposed photographs
         
• Combining images using layers, selections, and masks
         

You'll probably need between one and two hours to complete this lesson. If you haven't
            already done so, log in to your peachpit.com account to download the lesson files for this chapter, or follow the instructions
            under "Accessing the Classroom in a Book Lesson Files" in the Getting Started section
            at the beginning of this book.
         



If you're ready to go beyond fixing pictures in conventional ways, this lesson is
            for you. Why settle for that scenic photo that just doesn't capture the way it really
            looked? Or that group portrait where Dad is looking away and Mom's eyes are closed?
            Combine images to produce the perfect shot. Merge photos to make a stunning panorama,
            remove obstructions from the view, and even get little Jimmy to stop making faces.
         


Getting started
         
You'll begin by importing the sample images for this lesson to your CIB Catalog.



 Note
         
Before you start this lesson, make sure that you've set up a folder for your lesson
            files and downloaded the Lesson 8 folder from your Account page at www.peachpit.com, as detailed in "Accessing the Classroom in a Book Lesson Files" and "Creating a
            work folder" in the "Getting Started" section at the beginning of this book. You should
            also have created a new catalog (see "Creating a catalog for working with this book" in Lesson 1).
         


1 Start Photoshop Elements, and click Organizer in the Welcome Screen.
      
2 Click the Import button at the upper left of the Organizer and choose From Files
         And Folders from the drop-down menu. In the Get Photos And Videos From Files And Folders
         dialog box, locate and select your Lesson 8 folder. Disable the option Get Photos
         From Subfolders and the automatic processing options; then, click Get Media.
      
3 In the Import Attached Keyword Tags dialog, click Select All; then, click OK.
      

Combining images automatically
The Photomerge tools offer a variety of ways to combine photos. These tools not only
            deliver effective solutions to some tricky photographic problems, but are also great
            fun to use creatively, enabling you to produce striking and unusual images.
         

In this lesson, you'll use the Photomerge Exposure tool to combine exposures made
         in difficult lighting conditions into a composite image that would have been virtually
         impossible to capture in a single shot. You'll compose a group photo from two single-subject
         images with the Photomerge Group Shot tool, and combine a number of photos from a
         busy scene to produce an unobstructed view using the Photomerge Scene Cleaner. Let's
         start by blending a series of scenic photographs into a dramatic panorama using the
         Photomerge Panorama tool.
      

Merging photos into a panorama
A common problem for many of us when taking photos at a scenic location is that standard
            lenses don't have a wide enough angle to capture the entire scene. The Photomerge
            Panorama tool provides the solution: You can capture a series of overlapping shots,
            and then merge them to create a panorama. In the following pages, you'll learn how
            to have Photoshop Elements do most of the work for you.
         


You could start the Photomerge Panorama process from the Organizer by choosing Photomerge
         > Photomerge Panorama from the Edit menu, but for this exercise, you'll switch to
         the Editor and launch the operation from the Guided edit mode.
      


 Tip
         
If you don't see filenames displayed below the thumbnails in the Media Browser, make
            sure that the Details and File Names options are selected in the View menu.
         


1 In the Organizer, Ctrl-click / Command-click to select the images 08_01a.jpg through
         08_01d.jpg in the Media Browser; then, right-click / Control-click any of the selected
         thumbnails, and choose Edit with Photoshop Elements Editor.
      
2 If necessary, switch the Editor to Guided mode by clicking Guided in the picker at
         the top of the workspace. Click the Photomerge tab above the preview pane.
      
3 Shift-click to select all four photos in the Photo Bin, and then click the Photomerge
         Panorama preview to launch the process.
      

Setting up Photomerge Panorama options
The Photomerge dialog offers a choice of layout methods that will affect the way the
            source images are aligned and stitched together to create your panorama.
         

1 In the Photomerge Panorama pane at the right, click the arrow to the right of the
         projection preview diagram under Panorama Settings, and then select Cylindrical from
         the layout options.
      

Not all of the panorama Layout options­—methods for matching, aligning, and blending
         your source images—will work well for every series of photos. Experiment with your
         own photos to get a feel for the differences between the layout options and which
         will work best for a given set of source images.
      


 Tip
         
You might disable the Blend Images Together option if you wanted to control precisely
            which part of each photo was to be included in the panorama, by creating the layer
            masks manually.
         


2 Expand the Settings options and make sure Blend Images Together is activated.
      
With the Blend Images Together option activated, Photoshop Elements will color match
         the source photos, align overlapping detail, and automatically create layer masks
         to define the areas from each image that will contribute to the panorama.
      

3 Click the Create Panorama button at the right of the Taskbar; then watch the Layers
         panel while Photoshop Elements creates a new file for the panorama and places each
         source image on its own layer. Photomerge ­calculates the overlaps, masks each image
         layer accordingly, and then color matches adjacent images as it blends the seams.
      
The Clean Edges dialog appears, asking if you'd like to automatically fill in the
         edges of your panorama. If you were to click No, Photoshop Elements would automatically
         crop away any areas of transparency surrounding the composite image. These transparent
         areas, as indicated by a checkerboard pattern in the illustration below, result from
         the process of aligning the separate source images.
      

For this combination of photos, cropping away the transparent areas would not remove
         any really significant detail; however, substantial slices of the image would be lost,
         making the composition somewhat cramped. Photoshop Elements can help you solve this
         problem by using content aware healing to fill in the missing areas.
      

4 In the Clean Edges dialog, click Yes.
      
The content aware fill usually does a great job with nonspecific or organic content
         such as clouds, water, or foliage, and even with regular patterns like brickwork,
         but can't deal with too much man-made detail. Let's check over the results.
      
5 In the Photomerge Panorama pane, under Continue Editing, select In Expert.
      
6 In Expert mode, you can use the Zoom and Hand tools ( , ) to examine the extended image; the active "marching ants" selection border will
         help you to look in the right places to spot any anomalies.
      
The results at the top of the photo are very good, but the content aware fill has
         produced artifacts in the lower corners of the merged image. You may see different
         results than those pictured in the illustration below; the content aware fill operates
         with a degree of randomness in selecting areas for sampling in its attempt to avoid
         repetition of image detail.
      

7 (Optional) If you wish to see if Photomerge will produce a better result on its second
         attempt, choose Edit > Undo Fill, and then choose Edit > Fill Selection. In the Fill
         Layer dialog, choose Content-Aware from the Use menu; then, click OK. If you wish,
         you can retouch the unwelcome blend artifacts using the Spot Healing Brush and the
         Clone Stamp tool before moving on.
      
8 When you're done, press Ctrl+D / Command+D, or choose Select > Deselect.
      
Now let's have a closer look at how well Photoshop Elements matched the areas where
         the source images are overlapped.
      
9 In the Layers panel, click the eye icon () for the layer with merged panorama to hide it. Hold down Alt+Shift / Option+Shift,
         and click the black-and-white layer mask thumbnail for the third layer. In the Edit
         window, the mask associated with the layer appears as a semitransparent red overlay,
         enabling you to see which part of the image 08_01b.jpg has contributed to the panorama.
         The unused portions are hidden by the layer mask.
      



 Note
         
For our lesson images, you probably won't find noticeable blend problems, but some
            source photos can produce misaligned edges or displaced, floating details along the
            blended seams.
         


10 Use the Zoom and Hand tools to focus on the area where the blend border passes through
         the waterfront buildings. Hold Alt+Shift / Option+Shift, and click the layer mask
         thumbnail to toggle the overlay as you inspect the seams.
      
11 Hide the red mask overlay; then, Alt-click / Option-click the black-and-white layer
         mask thumbnail. The layer mask is displayed in opaque black and white. Black represents
         the masked portions of the layer; white represents the areas that have contributed
         to the blend.
      



 Tip
         
If you do find artifacts along seams in a panorama, try recombining the source images
            using a different layout method. Alternatively, you can adjust the placement of the
            seams by retouching the layer blending masks manually.
         


If you wished to edit any portion of a seam between images, you could alternate between
         the opaque and semitransparent views of the layer mask, and adjust the blend by painting
         (or erasing) directly onto the mask. If your panorama is extended by content aware
         fill, you'll need to erase the corresponding area of the top layer, creating a "window"
         so that your changes to the lower layers are visible.
      
12 Use the same technique to inspect the blended seams between the other source layers.
         When you're done, make the merged panorama layer visible once more.
      
13 Choose View > Fit on Screen. If you didn't repair the content aware fill in step
         7, choose Image > Crop. Drag the handles of the cropping rectangle to make it as large
         as possible without including the blurred image artifacts in the lower corners of
         the photo; then, click the Commit button () at the lower right to commit the crop.
      

The finished composite panorama presents a well-composed, natural-looking view, with
         no more distortion than is apparent at the outside edges of the source series.
      

14 Choose File > Save. Name the merged image 08_01_Panorama, to be saved to your My CIB Work folder in Photoshop format with Layers activated.
         Saving your file in Photoshop format enables you to preserve the layers, so that you
         can always return to adjust them if necessary. If you saved in JPEG format, the image
         would be flattened, and layer information lost. Make sure that the file will be included
         in the Organizer. Click Save; then, choose File > Close All.
      
Not every set of images will perform the same way in a Photomerge panorama. Different
         sets of source images can produce very different results, even with the same layout
         option settings. The way a given series of photos will combine to form a panorama
         depends on many factors, from lighting that varies markedly across the series to issues
         of perspective, foreshortening, and lens distortion.
      
Our sample photos feature even lighting and few foreground elements, but a series
         of images taken close to a building or other large object—like photos shot indoors
         or in a confined urban space—would present different challenges. Try creating panoramas
         in a variety of locations; the results can be both striking and surprising.
      


Creating a composite group shot
         
Shooting the perfect group photo is a difficult task, especially if you have a large
            family of squirmy kids. Fortunately, Photoshop Elements offers a solution: a powerful
            photo-blending tool called Photomerge Group Shot.
         

No longer do you need to put up with family photos where someone has turned away,
         frowned, or closed their eyes at the wrong moment. Photomerge Group Shot lets you
         merge the best parts of several images to create the perfect group photo.
      
A Photomerge Group Shot also makes a great solution to another common group photo
         problem: It lets you put the person behind the camera back in the frame.
      
1 If you're still in the Editor, click the Organizer button () in the Taskbar.
      
2 If necessary, use the Lesson 08 tag in the Tags panel to isolate the images for this
         lesson, and then Ctrl-click / Command-click to select the images 08_02a.jpg and 08_02b.jpg
         in the Media Browser.
      
3 Choose Edit > Photomerge > Photomerge Group Shot. Open the Photo Bin.
      


 Tip
         
If you don't see checkerboard transparency around the default source image, as shown
            in the illustration at the right, click Cancel, close both images without saving,
            and quit the Editor; then, start again from step 2.
         


The Photomerge Group Shot panel opens at the right, with tools and tips for merging
         photos; the toolbox now offers only the Zoom and Hand tools. By default, Photoshop
         Elements has designated the first photo in the Photo Bin as the source image and placed it in the Source pane on the left. The Photomerge tools will let
         you extract the figure from the Source image and blend it into the Final image.
      



 Note
         
Photoshop Elements begins the Photomerge process by finding matching detail; the checkerboard
            areas, and any skewing in either image, show what has been done to align the two photos.
         


Before you begin merging photos for a composite group shot, you need to consider your
         choice for the Final image—the "target" image into which the figures from your source
         images will be blended. You may choose the image with the most balanced composition,
         a photo with more background detail than the others, or the image with the most room
         for the additions you're planning.
      
4 Click the second thumbnail in the Photo Bin to replace the default source photo with
         the image 08_02b.jpg. Drag the first thumbnail (08_02a.jpg) from the Photo Bin into
         the Final image pane on the right.
      


For this demonstration, with only two images in the operation, we chose the image
            08_02a.jpg as the Final image (the base for the composite) because the exposure and
            composition are better, with more clearance at the subjects' feet. Also, you'll notice
            that the other shot has been skewed slightly in the alignment process.
         

5 In the Photomerge Group Shot panel at the right, select the Pencil tool (), if it's not already active. Click size slider to see a numerical value displayed;
         if necessary, reset the Pencil tool to its default size of 13 pixels. Make sure that
         the Show Strokes option is activated and Show Regions is disabled.
      


 Tip
         
Try to copy the yellow line in the illustration as closely as you can, so that you'll
            see results very similar to those described in this exercise. In normal circumstances,
            you can be much more casual with your pencil stroke.
         


6 In the Source image, start at the top of the man's head, and draw an uninterrupted
         line as shown in the illustration below, passing through his face, looping across
         the chest, and then tracing the outside line of his leg as closely as possible from
         the knee down, making sure that you stay just inside the edge of his jeans. If you
         go off track, press Ctrl+Z / Command+Z, and start again.
      
When you release the mouse button, the figure of the man is copied into the Final
         image, together with a patch of the stone stairs that hides parts of the woman's right
         forearm and leg, as well as her shadow. Some of the hair at the right of the man's
         face has been left behind. Note that the color and contrast of the area copied from
         the Source image has been adjusted to match the Final image.
      

With a practiced stroke, it's actually possible to merge the man to the Final image
         without the unwelcome extras and missing detail; however, one objective of this exercise
         is to demonstrate techniques that will help you to combine more complex source images,
         where it can be challenging to make the perfect selection.
      
Whenever you have difficulty defining the element you wish to copy from the Source
         image, it's preferable to make a stroke that picks up extra detail from the background,
         rather than one that leaves portions of the subject behind. The missing hair will
         be easy to deal with, but where objects touch or overlap, it's much easier to remove
         extraneous elements than it is to add missing detail.
      

7 With the Pencil tool, click once in the Source image to pick up the area of hair
         that was not merged to the Final image.
      
8 Press Ctrl / Command, together with the plus sign key (+), to zoom in; then hold
         the spacebar, and drag the Source image to center your view on the man's left leg.
         Make sure that you have a clear view from the knee to the foot.
      

9 Press the left bracket key ([) twice to reduce the default brush (or pencil) size;
         then, draw a short stroke just a little outside the line of the knee, as shown in
         the illustration at the right.
      
10 In the Photomerge Group Shot panel, select the Eraser tool () (you may need to click twice); then, press the left bracket key ([) twice to reduce
         the brush size. Carefully erase the short line, taking care to keep the Eraser tool
         cursor clear of the edge of the blue jeans. The original line will protect the edge
         of the man's jeans while the extraneous detail is removed, revealing the woman's leg
         and its shadow, and reinstating the hidden part of her right forearm.
      

When you're working with an object that's particularly difficult to isolate, try varying
         your strokes with the Pencil and Eraser tools. Use a combination of long lines, short
         strokes, and clicks. Both the brush size and the stroke direction can also make a
         difference to the area that will be affected by either tool.
      
The Advanced Options button in the Photomerge Group Shot panel gives you access to
         controls that let you edit a blended composite by adjusting the way the images are
         aligned. You'll look at the Show Regions option in the next exercise.
      
11 Click the Next button at the right of the Taskbar; then, under Continue Editing,
         click In Expert. The merged image needs cropping; choose Image > Crop, and then drag
         the handles of the cropping rectangle to trim off the empty areas. Click the green
         checkmark icon at the lower right to commit the crop.
      

12 Choose File > Save. Name the merged image 08_02_GroupMerge, to be saved to your My
         CIB Work folder in Photoshop (PSD) format with Layers activated, and included in the
         Organizer. Click Save; then, choose File > Close All.
      


Like all the Photomerge tools, Group Shot not only provides useful solutions to a
            variety of photographic problems, but can also be a lot of fun to use creatively—making
            it easy to add a touch of humor and fancy to your shots with a little photo magic.
         


Removing unwelcome intruders
         
The Photomerge Scene Cleaner enables you to combine the unobstructed areas from several
            photos of the same scene to produce a clear view—without the tourists, traffic, or
            uninvited extras that can draw attention away from your subject.
         



 Tip
         
Sequences shot with burst mode are ideal for use with the Scene Cleaner tool.


When you're sightseeing, it's a great idea to take extra shots of any busy scene,
         so that you can use the Scene Cleaner to put together an uncluttered image later.
         It's not necessary to use a tripod; as long as all your photos were shot from roughly
         the same viewpoint, Photoshop Elements will align the static content in the images.
      
You can use up to ten images in a single Scene Cleaner operation; the more source
         images, the more chance that you'll produce a perfect result. In this exercise, you'll
         clear a busy scene completely by combining just four photos.
      
1 Select the images 08_03a.jpg, 08_03b.jpg, 08_03c.jpg, and 08_03d.jpg in the Media
         Browser; then, choose Edit > Photomerge > Photomerge Scene Cleaner.
      


 Tip
         
If what you see on screen differs from the illustration at the right, click Cancel,
            close the images, quit the Editor, and then start again from step 1.
         


2 If necessary, open the Photo Bin; then, double-click the Hand tool to re-fit the
         previews to the work area. By default, 08_03a.jpg (framed in blue) is loaded as the
         Source image. Click the thumbnail framed in yellow (08_03b.jpg) to replace it; then
         drag the thumbnail with the blue frame to the Final pane. This is the photo you will
         "clean"—the base image for your composite. In the Photomerge Scene Cleaner panel,
         make sure that Show Strokes is activated.
      

The tools and options in the right panel are very similar to those in the Photomerge
         Group Shot panel. The principal difference is that in the Scene Cleaner, the Pencil
         and Eraser tools can be used in both the Source image and the Final image.
      
3 Compare the photos in the Source and Final panes. Use the Zoom and Hand tools to
         focus on the lower-right quadrant of the image. Note that the Source image (08_03a)
         has several clear areas where the Final image has obstructions. Select the Pencil
         tool () in the Photomerge Scene Cleaner panel.
      

4 In the Final image, draw a line through the man in the white shirt near the top of
         the steps, as shown at the right. Make sure your stroke covers both the leading hand
         and the trailing foot, but try not to extend it beyond his form. When you release
         the mouse button, the man is removed from the Final image—replaced by detail copied
         from the Source image. Move the pointer off the Final image onto the surrounding gray
         background; the yellow line remains visible only in the Source image.	
      


 Tip
         
Don't worry about the disembodied head of the broom; you'll remove that with another
            Source image.
         


5 In the Final image, draw a second line through the man on the tricycle. Clip the
         arms and gloves, but don't move further forward, or you'll copy the man in red from
         the Source image. If that happens, or you don't remove as much of the tricycle as
         is shown at the right below, undo your stroke, and try again.
      

6 If necessary, choose View > Fit on Screen to see the entire image. You can see that
         this Source image has nothing more to contribute to our composite scene; the left
         of the photo and the area at the top of the steps are as populated as the Final image.
         In the Photo Bin, click the third photo (the thumbnail with the green border) to make
         it the new Source image.
      

The new Source image has a clear area at the lower left that will enable you to remove
         three (and a half) more figures from the Final image. You can also copy the area in
         front of the church door at the right to clear another, but we won't use this Source
         photo to remove the people at the left of the facade—any stroke in that area of this
         image picks up the girl sitting on the wall.
      
7 In the Final image, draw a line down through the young man at the far left, extending
         your stroke to catch the trailing foot, as shown below. A mirror of the same stroke
         should remove the next customer. Draw a short line straight down through the third
         man; don't go too far at this point, or you'll introduce new problems. Click once
         to remove the extraneous shadow at the lower left, and once more to clear the figure
         from in front of the church door at the right.
      

8 Choose View > Fit on Screen to see the entire image. In the Photo Bin, click the
         thumbnail with the red border to make it the new Source image.
      
9 Draw in either image to remove the one-and-a-half people from the central foreground,
         together with the wreckage of the street-sweeper's tricycle. If you intend to draw
         in the Source image, refer to the illustration below before making your stroke. A
         short horizontal stroke will get rid of the stragglers loitering at the top of the
         stairs, and a single click will clear the heavy shadow in the foreground. If you need
         to edit a stroke, use the Eraser tool () in the right panel.
      

10 Double-click the Hand tool, or choose View > Fit on Screen. To see which part of
         each image has contributed to the cleared and blended composite, select the Show Regions
         option in the Photomerge Scene Cleaner panel.
      

11 Click the Next button at the right of the Taskbar; then, under Continue Editing,
         click In Expert.
      
12 The image has empty and patched areas around the edges, resulting from the alignment
         process. Choose Image > Crop. Drag the handles of the cropping rectangle to trim the
         image; then, click the checkmark to commit the crop.
      

13 Choose File > Save. Name the file 08_03_Depopulated, to be saved to your My CIB Work folder, in Photoshop (PSD) format. Make sure that
         the Layers option is selected and that the file will be included in the Organizer.
         Click Save, and then close all five files.
      

Blending differently exposed photos
         
There are many common situations where we (or our cameras in automatic mode) are forced
            to choose between properly exposing the foreground or the background.
         

Interior shots often feature overexposed window views where the scene outside is washed
         out or lost completely. Subjects captured in front of a brightly lit scene or backlit
         by a window are often underexposed, and therefore appear dull and dark.
      
Capturing outdoor night shots is another problematic situation; we need to use a flash
         to light our subject in the foreground, but a background such as a neon-lit street
         scene, a city skyline, or a moonlit vista is usually better exposed without it.
      
Photomerge Exposure provides a great new way to deal with photos captured in difficult
         lighting conditions, enabling you to combine the best-lit areas from two or more images
         to make a perfectly exposed shot.
      
For this exercise, you'll work with two photos of a mother and daughter posed in front
         of stained-glass windows in a dim interior, captured with and without flash.
      

The photo shot with flash has been correctly exposed to capture the figures in the
         foreground, but the windows appear "burnt out"—all color and detail have been lost.
         The second photo has captured the glowing colors in the stained glass reasonably well,
         but the rest of the image is too dark, dull, and lacking in detail.
      
1 If you're still in the Editor, switch to the Organizer now by clicking the Organizer
         button () in the Taskbar.
      
2 Click the checkbox beside the Lesson 08 tag in the Tags panel, if necessary, to isolate
         the images for this lesson. Ctrl-click / Command-click to select the images 08_04a.jpg
         and 08_04b.jpg.
      
3 Choose Edit > Photomerge > Photomerge Exposure. When the Editor has opened, show
         the Photo Bin.
      

Using the Photomerge Exposure tool
         
Whenever you're faced with difficult lighting conditions, you should keep the Photomerge
            Exposure tool in mind; make a point of shooting two or more photos at different exposure
            settings, and then let Photoshop Elements align them and blend them together when
            you get home.
         

Photoshop Elements can detect whether the images you've chosen to combine are a pair
         shot with and without flash or photos taken with different exposure settings, for
         example, a series captured using your camera's exposure-bracketing feature.
      
The Photomerge Exposure tool has two working modes; it will default to Manual mode
         for photos captured with and without flash, or open in Automatic mode for a series
         of exposure-bracketed shots.
      

Merging exposures manually
The Photomerge tools let you extract content from the Source image and blend it into
            the Final image. By default, Photoshop Elements places the first photo in the Photo
            Bin in the Source pane at the left of the Photomerge Exposure workspace.
         



 Tip
         
If what you see on screen differs from the illustration below, click Cancel, close
            both images without saving, and quit the Editor; then, start again from step 2 on
            the previous page.
         


1 Click the second thumbnail in the Photo Bin to replace the default source photo with
         the image 08_04b.jpg. Drag the first thumbnail (08_04a.jpg) from the Photo Bin into
         the Final image pane on the right. Make sure that the option Show Strokes is activated,
         and then activate the Edge Blending option.
      

2 Use the Zoom and Hand tools to focus your view on the figures in the foreground;
         then, select the Pencil tool () in the right panel. You won't need to change the default brush diameter.
      


 Tip
         
If you've copied unwanted background detail from around the woman's head into the
            Final image, use the Eraser tool from the right panel to remove that part of the line.
            Reduce the brush size for the Pencil tool by pressing the left bracket key ([) and
            try again, making sure that you stay within the outline of the woman's hair.
         


3 Starting near the woman's right eye, draw carefully around the top of her head, staying
         as close to the outline of the hair as possible without moving the brush outside it,
         and then drag down the line between mother and daughter.
      

4 Zoom in on the daughter's head. Reduce the brush size a little, if you haven't done
         so already, and draw around the top of the girl's head, taking care not to move the
         brush outside of the outline, but making sure that you pick up the highlighted areas
         of the hair. If your stroke introduces unwanted background detail, click or make short
         strokes with the Eraser tool () to correct it.
      

5 Double-click the Hand tool, or choose View > Fit on Screen. Don't be concerned about
         the legs of our subjects' jeans—you'll crop that part of the image in the next step.
         Click the Next button at the right of the Taskbar, and then, under Continue Editing,
         click In Expert.
      


 Tip
         
To move the cropping handles by small increments, press the Ctrl / Command key together
            with the plus sign key to zoom in, and press the spacebar to switch to the Hand tool.
         


6 Double-click the Hand tool; then choose Image > Crop. Drag the handles of the cropping
         rectangle to trim the image; then, commit the crop.
      
The merged image is a far better exposure than either of the original photos, but
         there is still plenty of room for improvement.
      

If we had much more time, we could add some detail from the flash-lit photo to the
         wall and columns, or try reversing the process by making the underexposed shot the
         Source image and copying the stained glass into the flash-lit photo instead.
      
7 Choose File > Save. Name the file 08_04_Merge_Manual, to be saved to your My CIB Work folder, in Photoshop (PSD) format with Layers activated,
         and included in the Organizer. Click Save. Keep the file open for the moment.
      

Merging exposures automatically
Even in Automatic mode, Photomerge Exposure gives you a degree of control over the
            way that the source images are combined.
         

1 Click an empty area in the Photo Bin to deselect all the thumbnails. Ctrl-click /
         Command-click to select the two original photos in the Photo Bin, and then switch
         to the Photomerge category in Guided edit mode. Click the interactive preview for
         Photomerge Exposure.
      
2 Click the Automatic tab at the top of the Photomerge Exposure panel; then, drag the
         Shadows slider all the way to the right to set a value of 100. This will lighten the
         shadows in the blended image, improving definition. Click the Next button at the right
         of the Taskbar, and then, under Continue Editing, click In Expert.
      
3 Crop the image; then, choose File > Save. Name the file 08_04_Merge_Auto, to be saved to your My CIB Work folder, in Photoshop (PSD) format with Layers activated,
         and included in the Organizer. Click Save. Keep the file open.
      
4 At the top of the Edit pane, click back and forth between the name tabs for the two
         merged images, 08_04_Merge_Manual and 08_04_Merge_Auto, to compare the results of
         the two blending modes. For our base images, the manual blend achieved a better exposure
         for the foreground subjects, while the automatically merged image reveals much more
         of the architectural detail.
      

5 In the Photo Bin, deselect all the thumbnails; then, Ctrl-click / Command-click to
         select the last two images, 08_04_Merge_Manual and 08_04_Merge_Auto. Switch to the
         Photomerge category in Guided edit mode and click the preview to launch the Photomerge
         Exposure process once more.
      
6 Click the Manual tab at the top of the Photomerge Exposure panel; then, drag the
         image 08_04_Merge_Auto into the Final pane. Use the Pencil tool to copy the figures
         from the manually merged photo to the automatically generated image; you won't need
         to be as careful as you were earlier. When you're done, click Next, move to Expert
         mode, crop the file, and save it as 08_04_Merge_Remix.
      
7 Click back and forth between the name tabs for the three merged images you've produced
         to compare them. When you're done, choose File > Close All.
      




Using layers to combine photographs
         
In this lesson so far, you've used some of the Photomerge tools to automate the process
            of combining photos. In this project, you'll take a more hands-on approach, using
            layers, selections, and masks to give you full control over the way several source
            photos are combined to create a complex composite image.
         

1 In the Organizer, locate and select the images 08_05b.jpg and 08_05c.jpg: a scenic
         view of the ruins of a Scottish castle and a photo of a seagull in flight.
      
2 Click the Editor button () in the Taskbar. In the Editor, click in the mode picker at the top of the workspace,
         if necessary, to switch to Expert mode.
      

Arranging the image layers
In the first part of this project, you'll arrange these two images on their separate
            layers, and then blend them to create a composite background.
         

1 Click the Layout button () in the Taskbar, and choose the All Row layout to tile the open image windows horizontally.
         Click the name tab of the image 08_05c.jpg (the seagull) to make it the active window.
      
2 Select the Move tool (), and hold down Alt / Option as you drag the seagull onto the coastal view. Release
         the mouse button and then the Alt / Option key. Holding the Alt / Option key as you
         drag a layer to another file ensures that the layer is aligned the same way in the
         target file as it is in the source, so that the image appears in the same position
         in the window. Close the image 08_05c.jpg.
      



 Note
         
Depending on your operating system, the seagull layer may be named "Layer 1," rather
            than "Background copy," as illustrated here.
         


3 If the Layers panel is not already visible, choose Window > Layers. In the Layers
         panel, make sure that the layer with the gull is selected, and then choose Image >
         Resize > Scale. If necessary, click the Tool Options button () to show the Tool Options pane; then, choose View > Fit on Screen.
      
4 In the Tool Options pane, make sure that the option Constrain Proportions is selected,
         and then type 50% in the W (width) field.
      

5 Position the pointer in the middle of the seagull photo and drag it to the upper-right
         corner of the image; then, drag the lower-left handle of the bounding box upward and
         to the right to reduce the image further. Keep your eye on the width (W) and height
         (H) values in the Tool Options pane; stop when both values reach 40%. Click the green
         Commit button on the bounding box to accept the changes.
      


Creating a feathered layer mask
A layer mask allows only part of the image on a layer to show, and hides the rest
            by making it transparent. Layers lower in the stacking order will be visible through
            the transparent areas in the masked layer. In the next steps, you'll make a feathered
            selection and use it to create a soft-edged mask that will make it possible to blend
            the seagull into the sky in the background scene without a visible edge.
         

1 Select the Rectangular Marquee tool () in the toolbar. In the Tool Options pane, activate the elliptical variant of the
         marquee selection tool, and then use the slider, or type over the default value, to
         set the Feather amount to 50 px.
      


2 Starting from a point below the bird's body, drag an elliptical selection marquee,
         holding down the Alt / Option key as you drag to draw the marquee from its center.
         Release the mouse button when you have as much clearance around the seagull as shown
         at the right. If necessary, drag the selection in the image window to center it on
         the bird.
      
3 With the seagull layer selected, click the Add Layer Mask button () at the top of the Layers panel to convert the selection to a layer mask. In the
         Layers panel, the layer with the gull now has a black-and-white mask icon; only the
         part of the image corresponding to the white area still shows in the image.
      


As you can see, the center of the mask is completely clear; the soft edge created
            by the feathered selection allows just enough clearance for the seagull. Though the
            selection is no longer active, you could edit the mask, if necessary, by painting
            directly onto it in black or white.
         

4 To see the layer mask displayed in the image window as a semitransparent overlay,
         hold down the Shift key, and then Alt-click / Option-click the layer mask thumbnail.
         Repeat the action to hide the overlay.
      
Although the feathered mask blends the image smoothly into the layer below it, the
         color in our wildlife photo still needs to be adjusted to match the background.
      

Matching the colors of blended images
Every color matching problem requires its own solution, but this exercise should at
            least give you an idea of what kinds of things you can try. In this case, you'll use
            a blending mode together with several different adjustments to color and lighting.
         

1 Double-click the colored thumbnail (not the layer mask) on the seagull layer to select
         the image, rather than the mask; then, choose Enhance > Adjust Color > Adjust Hue/Saturation.
         In the Hue/Saturation dialog, use the sliders or type new values to set both the Hue
         and the Saturation to -12 and the Lightness to -2.
      
2 Use the menu above the sliders to switch from the Master channel to the Cyans channel.
         Set the Saturation value for the Cyans channel to -20. Switch to the Blues channel, and set the Saturation to -20; then click OK.
      



 Tip
         
If you wish to tweak the position of the seagull, make sure its layer is active; then,
            select the Move tool, and drag the bird by its center; the Move tool will not work
            if you try to drag a part of the image that is masked (invisible). Alternatively,
            once the Move tool is activated, you can nudge the selected layer with the arrow keys
            on your keyboard.
         


As you can see in the before and after illustration below, this combination of adjustments
         has not only matched the colors in the blended images, but has also reduced the contrast
         and made the seagull a little brighter, helping it to fit in better with the slightly
         hazy aerial perspective in the background image.
      

3 Choose File > Save As. Save the file to your work folder, in the Photoshop format
         with Layers enabled. Make sure that the image will be included in the Organizer, but
         not in a Version Set. Name the new file 08_05_Composite, and then click Save. Keep the blended image open for the next exercise.
      

Cleaning up selection edges
Defringing removes the halo of residual color that often surrounds a ­selection copied and pasted
            from one image to another. In this exercise, you'll add a foreground image of four
            sisters; then select and delete the background from that photo, and use the Defringe
            feature to blend the selection halo into the background.
         

1 Choose View > Fit on Screen; then, choose File > Open. Navigate to and open your
         Lesson 8 folder. Select the file 08_05a.jpg, and then click Open.
      
2 With the image 08_05a.jpg selected as the active window, choose Select > All. Choose
         Edit > Copy, and then File > Close. Make sure the top layer of the composite image
         is still selected; then, choose Edit > Paste. The image of the four sisters is placed
         on a new layer, right above the layer that was selected.
      
3 With the new layer selected in the Layers panel, select the Move tool (), and drag the photo of the girls to the lower-right corner of the image.
      
4 Click any of the handles on the bounding box. In the Tool Options pane, make sure
         that Constrain Proportions is selected; then, drag the upper-left handle of the bounding
         box upward and to the left to meet the left border of the image.
      
5 Click the Commit button at the lower right of the bounding box; then, use the right
         and down arrow keys to nudge Layer 1 just a fraction down and to the right.
      



 Tip
         
The Magic Wand tool () is grouped ­together with the Quick Selection tool () and the Selection Brush () in the Select category at the top of the toolbar.
         


6 Click the Quick Selection tool, or whichever of its variants is currently visible
         at the right of the Lasso tool () in the Select tools category. At the left of the Tool Options pane, activate the
         Magic Wand tool (). Set the Tolerance to 5, activate Anti-aliasing, and disable the Contiguous and Sample All Layers options.
         Select the yellow background on Layer 1 with the Magic Wand tool.
      
7 Press the Delete key to delete the yellow background, and then press Ctrl+D / Command+D,
         or choose Select > Deselect, to clear the selection.
      
8 Zoom in to the space between the heads of the two sisters in the middle of the group.
         A yellowish fringe or halo is clearly visible around the girls' hair.
      
9 Choose Enhance > Adjust Color > Defringe Layer. In the Defringe dialog, type 5 pixels for the width, and click OK. Most of the fringe is eliminated.
      

10 Double-click the Hand tool in the toolbox, or choose View > Fit on Screen, to see
         the whole image in the Edit window.
      
11 Select the Magic Wand tool () once more, and click anywhere in the cleared area surrounding the girls. Choose
         Select > Modify > Border, and set a border width of 4 pixels; then, click OK.
      
12 Choose Filter > Blur > Blur More, and then repeat the command to soften the harder
         edges of the pasted image. Press Ctrl+D / Command+D, or choose Select > Deselect,
         to clear the selection.
      

13 Choose File > Save, and then close the document.
      

Combining layers in Guided edit mode
Now that you know what's involved in layering a composite image, you'll appreciate
            another of the latest additions to the Guided edit mode; the Replace Background guided
            edit, new in Photoshop Elements 2018, automates much of the process.
         

1 In the Organizer, select the image 08_06.jpg and click the Editor button () in the Taskbar. In the Editor, switch to Guided mode. Click the preview in the Special
         Edits category to launch the Replace Background project.
      
2 Choose the Auto Selection tool from the options presented in step 1 in the actions
         pane at the right. In the tool options pane below the image preview, make sure that
         the Auto Selection tool is set to the Rectangle selection style; then, drag a rectangular
         marquee around the girl.
      

3 Switch to the Selection Brush. In the tool options pane, make sure the Selection
         Brush is set to Subtract From Selection mode. Set the brush size to 80 pixels and
         its hardness to 97%. Paint out any unwanted areas that have been selected; pay attention
         to the outline of the arm at the left, and the top of the girl's head.
      

4 Set the Selection Brush to Add To Selection mode. Paint over any unselected areas
         that need to be included; pay particular attention to the bottom edge of the image,
         the girl's right shoulder, and the top of her head, left of the parting. You don't
         need to select the fly-away wisps of hair.
      
5 In the actions pane, click Import A Photo. Navigate to and open the Extras folder
         inside your Lesson 8 folder; then, select the image 08_06_Background.jpg and click
         Place. Switch to the Move tool and drag the background downwards as far as you can,
         without exposing the upper edge. Drag the girl just a little to the right, stopping
         before the frame of the door behind her becomes visible.
      
6 If necessary, use the Refine Selection tool in either mode to tidy up the girl's
         outline; look for fringes of the original background around her arms and hair.
      
7 Click Auto Match Color Tone, the last step in the guided actions pane. Wait while
         Photoshop Elements analyzes the photos and makes the adjustment.
      
Photoshop Elements applies a slightly "harder" contrast to the image of the girl,
         but the color tone still looks a little cool and out of place against the afternoon
         sunshine in the new background. You can adjust that easily in Expert mode.
      
8 Click Next at the lower right of the workspace; then, under Continue Editing, choose
         In Expert. Click to select the image thumbnail—not the black and white mask—on the
         top layer in the Layers panel.
      
9 Choose Enhance > Adjust Color > Adjust Color For Skin Tone. Click on a neutrally
         lit area of the girl's skin—neither a highlight nor a shadow; then, drag the Ambient
         Light > Temperature slider a little to the right, moving it no more than the width
         of the slider button itself. Click OK.
      
10 In the Layers panel, click to select the middle layer, 08_06_Background. Choose Layer
         > Simplify Layer. Choose Filter > Blur > Gaussian Blur; then, set the blur radius
         to 8 pixels and click OK. The blurred background competes less with the subject and
         simulates a depth-of-field effect.
      

11 Choose File > Save As. Save the file with all its layers in Photoshop format, with
         an appropriate name and all the usual settings; then, choose File > Close.
      
Congratulations, you've completed the last exercise in this lesson. You've learned
         how to create a stunning composite panorama, merge multiple photos into the perfect
         group shot, remove obstructions from a view, combine elements from two photos, and
         compose several photos into a single image by arranging layers and using a selection
         to define a layer mask. You've also gained some experience with solving difficult
         lighting problems by combining shots taken at different exposures.
      
Take a moment to work through the lesson review on the next page before you move on
         to the next chapter, where you'll explore opportunities for unleashing your creativity
         with Photoshop Elements.
      


Review questions
1 What does the Photomerge Group Shot tool do?
            


2 How does the Photomerge Scene Cleaner work?
      
3 Why is it that sometimes when you think you're finished with a transformation in
         Photoshop Elements you can't select another tool or perform other actions?
      
4 Why does Photomerge Exposure sometimes open in Automatic mode and at other times
         in Manual mode?
      
5 What is a fringe, and how can you remove it?
      
6 What are the Photomerge tools that are not covered in this lesson?
      


Review answers
1 With the Photomerge Group Shot tool, you can pick and choose the best parts of several
               similar photos and merge them together to form one perfect picture.
            


2 The Photomerge Scene Cleaner helps you improve a photo by removing passing cars,
         tourists, and other unwanted elements. The Scene Cleaner works best when you have
         several shots of the same scene, so that you can combine the unobstructed areas from
         each source picture to produce a photograph free of traffic and tourists.
      
3 Photoshop Elements is waiting for you to confirm the transformation by clicking the
         Commit button, or by double-clicking inside the transformation boundary.
      
4 Photomerge Exposure detects whether your source photos were taken with exposure bracketing
         or with and without flash, and defaults to Automatic or Manual mode accordingly. Manual
         mode works better for source files taken with flash / no flash.
      
5 A fringe is the annoying halo of color that often surrounds a ­selection pasted into
         another image. When the copied area is pasted onto another background color, or the
         selected background is deleted, pixels of the original background color show around
         the edges of your selection. The Defringe Layer command (Enhance > Adjust Color >
         Defringe Layer) blends the halo away so you won't see an artificial-looking edge.
      
6 The Photomerge Faces and Photomerge Compose tools are not treated in this lesson.
         Photomerge Faces works similarly to the Photomerge Group Shot tool, except that it's
         specialized for working with faces. The Photomerge Compose tool enables you to extract
         an object from one image and compose it realistically into another.
      







9. Getting Creative


Lesson overview
Once you've adjusted and polished your photos, Photoshop Elements offers a multitude
            of ways to add your own artistic touches; you've already experimented with some of
            the creative possibilities of the Recompose and Photomerge tools and designed your
            own custom effects in the Filter Gallery.
         
In this lesson you'll have some fun with the type tools and explore the Create mode,
            where Photoshop Elements makes it simple to create ­stylish, professional-looking
            projects to showcase your photos, from greeting cards and Photo Books to calendars
            and slide shows.
         
• Locating artwork in the Graphics library
         
• Setting up a photo project in Create mode
         
• Adding a creative touch with text and graphics
         
• Fitting text to an image
         
• Building a slide show
         
• Working with layers, blend modes, layer styles, and effects
         
• Creating layer masks and type masks
         

You'll probably need between one and two hours to complete this lesson. If you haven't
            already done so, log in to your peachpit.com account to download the lesson files for this chapter, or follow the instructions
            under "Accessing the Classroom in a Book Lesson Files" in the Getting Started section
            at the beginning of this book.
         



Photoshop Elements offers a huge library of layout templates and clip graphics, and
            a whole family of text tools that make it easy to produce eye-catching projects to
            showcase your photos. Show loved ones how much you care with stylish personalized
            greeting cards; preserve and share your precious memories in a sophisticated photo
            book; combine pictures, text, and effects to fit your photos to a practical purpose,
            or tell an evocative story in an artistic photo collage.
         


Getting started
         
You'll begin by importing the sample images for this lesson to your CIB Catalog.



 Note
         
Before you start this lesson, make sure that you've set up a folder for your lesson
            files and downloaded the Lesson 9 folder from your Account page at www.peachpit.com, as detailed in "Accessing the Classroom in a Book Lesson Files" and "Creating a
            work folder" in the "Getting Started" section at the beginning of this book. You should
            also have created a new catalog (see "Creating a catalog for working with this book" in Lesson 1).
         


1 Start Photoshop Elements, and click Organizer in the Welcome Screen.
      
2 In the Organizer, check the lower-right corner of the workspace to make sure that
         your CIB Catalog is loaded—if not, choose File > Manage Catalogs, and select it from
         the list.
      
3 Click the Import button at the upper left of the Organizer workspace, and choose
         From Files and Folders from the drop-down menu. In the Get Photos and Videos from
         Files and Folders dialog, locate and select the Lesson 9 folder inside your PSE2018CIB
         folder.
      
4 Disable the option Get Photos From Subfolders; then, click Get Media.
      
5 In the Import Attached Keyword Tags dialog, click Select All; then, click OK.
      

On the arty side of the Editor
The Photoshop Elements Editor is much more than just a digital darkroom; when you're
            ready to go beyond simply improving your photos technically, you'll find that the
            Editor is also a versatile desktop design studio equipped with everything you'll need
            to give free rein to your creativity.
         

In Lessons 4, 5, and 6, you saw how even the standard tools for correcting color and
         lighting can also be used to achieve striking, evocative effects. In Lessons 7 and
         8, you discovered ways to reinvent and reinterpret your photos with the image-editing
         magic of state-of-the-art content-aware editing and Photomerge technologies and by
         creating your own unique photo effects in the Filter Gallery.
      
In this lesson, you'll have a little fun with the Type tools, practice some interesting
         creative techniques using layers and masks, and take a look at the Editor's Create
         mode, where Photoshop Elements can guide you through the process of designing stylish
         photo projects and presentations, from slide shows and photo books to calendars, greeting
         cards, and even customized CD labels.
      

Exploring the artwork library
Whether you're working with a preset project template in Create mode or building up
            a photo-illustration layer by layer in Expert mode, Photoshop Elements makes it quick
            and easy to create distinctive photo projects by providing an extensive collection
            of backgrounds, frames, text styles, clip-art shapes, and graphics in the Graphics
            library. Although this artwork is also available in the Create mode, we'll start by
            exploring the Graphics panel in Expert mode.
         

1 In the Organizer, press Ctrl+Shift+A / Command+Shift+A, or choose Deselect from the
         Edit menu, to make sure you have no images selected in the Media Browser, and then
         click the Editor button () in the Taskbar.
      
2 If the Editor is not already in Expert mode, click Expert in the mode picker at the
         top of the workspace, and then choose Window > Reset Panels. If you don't see tabs
         for the Layers, Effects, Filters, Styles, and Graphics panels at the top of the Panel
         Bin, click the arrow beside the More button () at the right of the Taskbar, and choose Custom Workspace at the bottom of the menu.
      

3 Click the Graphics tab at the top of the Panel Bin to bring the Graphics panel to
         the front.
      
4 Click the menu icon () at the far right of the Panel Bin's header bar, and make sure the option Large Thumbnail
         View is selected.
      
5 Move the pointer over the left edge of the Graphics panel; when the double-arrow
         cursor appears, drag the edge of the Panel Bin to the left to increase it to its maximum
         width.
      
What you see displayed in the Graphics panel depends on the options set in the sorting
         menus above the thumbnail swatches. By default, the sorting menu at the left is set
         to "By Type." At this setting, the content of the library is sorted by functional
         category. The second sorting menu lists the categories: Backgrounds, Frames, Graphics,
         Shapes, and Text.
      
6 In the header of the Graphics panel, choose each category in turn from the second
         menu, and scroll down to see thumbnails of the artwork available.
      


Using the Favorites panel
         
At first, the large number of choices in the Graphics panel may seem a little overwhelming,
            but you can easily locate the artwork you need by using the sorting and filtering
            menus at the top of the panel. These search functions are not available on the Graphics
            tab in Create mode, so it can save you time to do a little advance planning and assemble
            the items you want for a project while you're in Expert mode, using the Graphics and
            Favorites panels in tandem.
         

1 Choose Window > Favorites. Drag the Favorites tab from the header of the floating
         panel group to the bottom of the Panel Bin, and release the mouse button when you
         see a blue line indicating an insertion point below the Graphics panel. Close the
         floating panel group. Move the pointer over the upper edge of the Favorites panel;
         then, drag upward with the double-arrow cursor until the Favorites panel occupies
         about half of the space in the Panel Bin.
      
2 The Favorites panel already contains a small sample selection of popular graphics
         and image effects. To clear these items, select each swatch in turn and click the
         trash can icon in the Favorites panel header. Alternatively, you can right-click /
         Control-click each swatch in turn and choose Remove From Favorites from the context
         menu.
      



 Tip
         
Hold the pointer over a swatch to see the item's name. If you can't find some of the
            graphics referred to in steps 3 through 7, Photoshop Elements has not yet finished
            downloading all of the project content that was not installed with the software. Make
            sure that you are connected to the internet; then, wait for a few minutes before working
            through these steps again.
         


3 Choose By Word from the sorting menu in the header of the Graphics panel. If you don't see the filter menu below the sorting menu and the Find button, change
            the sorting option temporarily to By Style, and then switch back to By Word. Type paper in the search box. Choose Backgrounds from the filter menu in the bar below the sorting
         menu, and then click Find. Drag the backgrounds "Handmade Paper 03" and "Handmade
         Paper 04" into the Favorites panel. You'll need these items later in this lesson for
         your Create mode project.
      

4 Set the filter to Frames. Locate the "Paper Frame" swatch and drag it into the Favorites
         panel. Swipe over the word "paper" in the search box and type travel. Choose Graphics from the filter menu, and then click Find. Drag the graphics "Compass
         02" and "Cruise Ship" into the Favorites panel.
      

5 Choose By Color from the sorting menu, and then select Black from the colors menu.
         Set the filter to Backgrounds and add "Black Folded Paper" to your Favorites. Reset
         the filter to Frames and collect the "Basic Black 40px" frame.
      
6 From the sorting menu, choose By Style; then, select Comic Book from the adjacent
         styles menu. Set the filter for Graphics; then drag the graphic named Speech Bubble
         05 to the Favorites panel.
      



 Note
         
At installation, the Graphics library contains only a small selection of items. Swatches
            marked with blue in the upper-right corner are "online assets" that will be downloaded
            to your computer automatically as soon as you place them in a project, so that your
            hard disk is not cluttered with unwanted items.
         


7 Change the style from Comic Book to Vintage. Collect the frames "Gold Frame Ornate,"
         "Gold Frame Round 2," and "Old Black & Gold Frame" and the background "Blue Swirly."
         Change the style filter from Vintage to Decorative, and add the graphics "Gold Flourish
         Corner" and "Silver Flower Spray" to your Favorites. Check through the preceding steps
         to make sure that you've added all fourteen of the artwork items in the illustration
         at the right.
      
The Favorites panel can also store items from the Effects and Styles panels. To complete
         this exercise, you can now add some layer style effects that you'll use to refine
         your photo projects later.
      

8 Click the Styles tab at the top of the Panel Bin. Choose Drop Shadows from the style
         categories menu and drag both the "High" and "Low" drop shadow effects to the Favorites
         panel.
      
9 Click the Organizer button () in the Taskbar to return to the Organizer.
      

Producing a Photo Book
Our exploration of the Create mode will focus on the Photo Book project—the most involved
            of those offered in the Create menu. The skills and techniques you'll learn for your
            Photo Book are applicable to all of the other Create mode projects.
         

A sophisticated, attractive way to present and share your memories, and an ideal output
         medium for digital scrapbooking, a photo book can make the perfect personalized gift
         for a loved one. You can either export your photo book in PDF format and have it printed
         and bound professionally, or print it yourself at home. For home printing, you'll
         need high-quality, double-sided paper and, depending on the capabilities of your printer,
         you may possibly need to scale your layout in the print dialog to fit within the printable
         area.
      


 Tip
         
If you don't see filenames below the thumbnails in the Media Browser, select the Details
            and File Names options in the View menu.
         


1 Click the Lesson 9 folder in the My Folder list to isolate the images for this lesson.
         Make sure that the Sort By menu in the actions bar above the thumbnails is set to
         Oldest. In the Media Browser, select the image photobook_01.jpg; then Shift-click
         the image photobook_26.jpg to select all the images in the series.
      
2 Click the Create tab above the right panel group, and choose Photo Book from the
         Create menu. The Photo Book setup dialog opens.
      


 Tip
         
You can change the units of measurement used in the Photo Book setup dialog on the
            Units & Rulers tab in the Editor's preferences dialog. If you don't see all of the
            themes shown in the illustration at right (the Themes menu should contain more than
            30 templates in all), wait a few minutes while Photoshop Elements downloads project
            content that was not installed with the software.
         


3 The Sizes pane shows the size options available for your printer; choose the size
         closest to that shown in the illustration below. Scroll the Themes menu to see the
         design templates offered; then, choose the Colorful template. At the bottom of the
         dialog, set the number of pages for the photo book to 8. For the purposes of this exercise, deselect the option Autofill With Selected Images;
         then, click OK.
      

You'll see a series of progress bars as Photoshop Elements downloads online artwork
         assets, builds pages, and generates previews, and then the title page of the photo
         book appears in the Edit window. The Pages panel at the right displays thumbnail previews
         for the title page and four two-page spreads.
      


 Tip
         
If you don't see thumbnails for a cover page and four two-page spreads in the Pages
            panel at the right, you may need to refresh the view. Click the Layouts button () at the right of the Task­bar; then, click the Pages button () to reopen the Pages panel.
         


4 Show the Photo Bin by clicking the Photo Bin button () in the Taskbar. The Photo Bin displays the images currently selected in the Organizer.
      


Changing page layouts
         
When Photoshop Elements generates Photo Book pages automatically, it applies a different
            layout to each page randomly­, varying the number, size, and positioning of photos
            so that every spread has a unique design, as reflected in the Pages preview.
         

You can either accept the automatic layout as is, or use it as a starting point and
         customize the design page by page. For the purpose of saving time in this project,
         we've prepared a tweaked layout designed to fit the lesson images, leaving it up to
         you to replace the page layout for the title page.
      


 Tip
         
You may see a warning that text layers might need to be updated for output. Select
            the option Don't Show Again, and then click Update.
         


1 Choose File > Close, and then click No / Don't Save to discard the default layout.
         Choose File > Open. Navigate to and open your Lesson 9 folder; then, select the file
         Venice_Book.pse, and click Open. On Windows, you'll need to select the nested file
         Venice_Book.pse, and then click Open.
      
2 In the Pages panel at the right, make sure that the title page is selected.
      
3 Click the Layouts button () in the Taskbar below the right panel. Scroll down in the Layouts menu to examine
         the variety of page design templates available. Hold the pointer over a layout preview
         thumbnail to see its name displayed in a tooltip. When you're done, click the arrow
         at the right of the Different Layouts header to collapse that category.
      
4 In the One Photo category, locate the template Photobook Landscape Grey-text and
         drag the layout preview thumbnail to the title page in the Edit window.
      

5 Click the Pages button () in the Taskbar below the right panel, and examine the completed base layout in the
         Pages preview. Including the cover page, the design now has the correct number of
         placeholders for our 26 lesson photos. Three of the placeholder frames may be hard
         to spot as they fill whole pages, with smaller frames arranged on top of them (pages
         2, 4, and 5).
      

Rearranging the order of images in a project
When you create a photo book—or any other photo project—and have Photoshop Elements
            place your photos automatically, the images are arranged in the layout template in
            the same order in which they appear in the Photo Bin.
         

For a multiple-page project such as a photo book, you can save time and effort by
         arranging your photos before you begin. In the Organizer, you can establish a custom
         sorting order by creating an Album. Once you're in the Editor, the easiest way to
         change the order of your images is by simply shuffling them in the Photo Bin.
      
1 If necessary, click the Photo Bin button () in the Taskbar to show the Photo Bin. Make sure the menu at the left of the Photo
         Bin header is set to Show Files Selected in Organizer. If you don't see filenames,
         right-click / Control-click in the Photo Bin, and choose Show Filenames from the context
         menu.
      


 Tip
         
If you accidentally open the image photobook_05.jpg, simply close it, and then try
            again, clicking and dragging in a single action, rather than first clicking; then,
            dragging.
         


2 Drag the image photobook_05.jpg to a new position to the left of the image photobook_02.jpg,
         so that it becomes the second image in the Photo Bin.
      


3 Scroll the Photo Bin until you can see some empty gray space at the end of the series
         of lesson photos. Right-click / Control-click in this empty space and choose Autofill
         With Photo Bin Photos. Wait while Photoshop Elements places the images and regenerates
         the page previews.
      
4 Hide the Photo Bin by clicking the Photo Bin button at the left of the Taskbar. Choose
         File > Save.
      

Working with backgrounds
You can change the page background­, like any other element in a preset theme template,
            as easily as you changed the layout. You can move, rotate, scale, or delete the preset
            background, just as you can with a frame or clip-art graphic. Unlike an image in a
            frame, however, you can't simply select and drag the background image­. As the "foundation"
            of the file, the locked Background layer is a special case: for some operations, it
            will need to be "simplified"—unlocked and converted to standard bitmapped data—before
            it can be edited as other layers can.
         



 Tip
         
If the layer names are truncated, move the pointer over the edge of the Layers panel
            and drag with the double-arrow cursor to make the panel wider.
         


1 In the Pages panel, click the first two-page spread, pages 1 and 2; then, click the
         Advanced Mode button at the left of the actions bar above the Edit window. Click the
         Layers button () in the Taskbar to open the Layers panel. From the panel options menu at the right
         of the Layers panel header, choose Collapse All Groups. Choose Window > Favorites
         to open the Favorites panel. Drag the Favorites panel to position it where it won't
         obstruct your view.
      

2 Double-click the Black Folded Paper background swatch in the Favorites panel. Wait
         while Photoshop Elements downloads this online asset to your computer; then, watch
         both the Layers panel and the preview spread in the Edit window as the Background
         layer is updated.
      
The new background graphic has been scaled to fit across the width of the two-page
         spread, but the right half is hidden by the full-page image on page 2. The grey strip
         at the center of the layout is part of the frame around that image.
      
3 With the Move tool () selected in the toolbar, right-click / Control-click the full-page image on the
         right page of the spread, and choose Clear Frame from the context menu. You now have
         a clear view of the line where the inside edges of the facing pages meet at the center
         of the spread.
      
We could make more of the subtle textural detail in this background by reducing it
         to cover only the left page. To move, scale, or rotate the background, you first need
         to use the Move Background command to unlock it on the Background layer.
      
4 Right-click / Control-click the background where it's visible on the left page, and
         choose Move Background from the context menu. A bounding box now surrounds the background
         graphic, though most of it is out of view because the image is larger than the two-page
         spread. Test this by dragging the background downward; then, drag the image back to
         its original position.
      
5 In order to scale or rotate the background manually, you could drag the image to
         access the control handles, but in this case it will be more convenient to use the
         controls in the Tool Options pane. Click the Tool Options button () in the Taskbar, if necessary. In the Tool Options pane, type 50% in the Width (W) text box; with the Constrain Proportions option activated, the
         Height (H) value will be updated automatically. The background image is scaled by
         50% from its center.
      

6 Drag the reduced background artwork, and position it flush with the left edge of
         page 1. Move the image up and down until you're pleased with the placement of the
         detail, and then click the Commit button () to commit the changes.
      

7 Without the background covering the entire spread, a thin margin of white shows around
         the large photo on the right page. Click the image; then, click once on any of the
         bounding box handles. Rather than drag the handles to scale the image and its containing
         frame, type 101% in either the W or H text box in the Tool Options pane; then, commit the change.
      
8 Drag the Basic Black 40px frame swatch from the Favorites panel onto each of the
         five smaller, framed photos in the layout; then, click on the background.
      

9 Choose File > Save. If necessary,, click the button at the left of the actions bar
         to return to Advanced mode and click the Pages button () in the Taskbar to open the Pages panel. In the Pages preview, click the third spread
         in the photo book: pages 5 and 6. Alternatively, you can navigate to the page 5/6
         spread by clicking twice on the right-facing arrow above the Edit window.
      

Working with photos and frames
You've already replaced photo frames in a page layout by substituting artwork from
            the Graphics library; in this exercise, you'll learn how to manipulate a photo and
            its frame as a single grouped design element, and how to modify a photo's position
            and orientation independently of the frame with which it's grouped.
         

1 You can start by replacing all seven frames in the page 5/6 spread. If necessary,
         choose Window > Favorites to reopen the Favorites panel, and then drag the Old Black
         & Gold Frame from the Favorites panel onto each of the four small images on the left
         page, and the Paper Frame onto the three photos on the right.
      

2 Double-click the Handmade Paper 04 swatch to replace the background; then, right-click
         / Control-click the full-page image on the left of the spread, and choose Clear Frame
         from the context menu.
      


 Tip
         
When the Move tool is active, you can use the arrow keys on your keyboard to move
            selected project elements in small steps instead of dragging them with the mouse.
         


3 To move a framed photo, simply drag it with the Move tool (). Shift-click each of the four small images on the left page to select them. Start
         dragging the row of photos downward; then, hold down the Shift key to constrain the
         movement as you position them halfway between the girl's eyes and the mouth of her
         mask.
      
4 Click the background to deselect the four photos, and then reselect the image at
         the left. Hold down the Shift key as you drag the framed photo about halfway to the
         left edge of the page. Move the photo on the right end of the row the same distance
         in the opposite direction. Select all four images; then, click the Tool Options button
         (), if necessary, to show the Tool Options pane. Click the Middle button in the right-hand
         column under Distribute to automatically space the second and third photos evenly
         between the first and fourth images.
      

5 Right-click / Control-click each of the three photos on the right page in turn, and
         choose Fit Frame to Photo from the context menu for each. The frames are resized so
         that their outside borders conform to the edges of the images.
      

6 Click to select the image at the right; then, drag the handle at the lower right
         of the bounding box to enlarge it—together with its frame—until the right edge of
         the image extends beyond the boundary of the page. You don't need to use the Shift
         key; the proportions of the frame group are constrained by default. Click the Commit
         button ().
      
7 Drag or nudge the three tilted photos into a pleasing arrangement, scaling or rotating
         them as you wish. To rotate a framed photo manually, select the photo; then, move
         the pointer close to one of the corner handles, staying just outside the bounding
         box. When the curved double-arrow cursor appears, drag to rotate the image. Hold down
         the Shift key as you drag to constrain the rotation to 15° increments. Always click
         the Commit button () to commit the changes.
      


 Tip
         
If a photo does not fill its frame properly when scaled or rotated, right-click /
            Control-click the photo, and choose Fit Frame to Photo. Alternatively, double-click
            the photo, and resize it within its frame by using the slider, as discussed in the
            next exercise, "Adjusting a photo inside a frame."
         



8 Choose File > Save. Click the right-facing arrow above the Edit pane to move to pages
         7 and 8.
      

Adjusting a photo inside a frame
Although a photo frame appears to be overlaid on the image it surrounds, the two elements
            actually occupy the same layer (by default, a layer for a framed photo even takes
            its name from the frame graphic). As a result, the standard moving, scaling, and rotating
            operations affect the photo and frame as if they were a single object. In this exercise,
            you'll learn how to transform a photo independently of its frame; but first, you'll
            change the background and frames for the last spread in your book.
         

1 Reopen the Favorites panel and double-click the Handmade Paper 03 swatch in the Favorites
         panel to replace the background for the page 7/8 spread; then, drag the Basic Black
         40px frame swatch onto each of the four images on page 7. You can keep the default
         frame for the large photo on page 8.
      
There are two text frames at the lower-left of page 8, which were part of the preset
         layout. The white placeholder text is a little difficult to see, but even on a white
         background, you could easily locate and select the text frames in the Layers panel.
      
2 If necessary, show the Layers panel. From the Layers panel options menu, choose Collapse
         All Groups. Shift-click to select both _TXTFrame layers, and press Backspace / Delete
         on your keyboard. Click Yes to confirm the deletion.
      
When you move a framed photo, or use its bounding box handles to scale or rotate it,
         the photo and frame are transformed together.
      

To move or transform a photo inside its frame, right-click / Control-click the image,
         and choose Position Photo in Frame from the menu—or alternatively, double-click the
         photo with the Move tool (). A control bar appears above the photo, with a scaling slider and buttons to reorient
         the image or replace it with another.
      
3 Right-click / Control-click the image on the right page, and choose Position Photo
         In Frame from the context menu. Hold down the Shift key to constrain the movement
         as you drag the image to the left within its frame, so that the border no longer cuts
         off the gondolier on the right. Commit the change.
      

4 Use the Zoom tool () to focus on the photos on the left page. We'll deal with the image at the lower
         right in the next step; for the other three, right-click / Control-click each image
         in turn, with the Move tool and choose Position Photo In Frame. Use the slider to
         reveal as much of each image as possible, without resizing the frames. Drag each photo
         within its frame to arrange the most interesting crop; then commit the changes.
      
5 You can rotate the last of the four photos within its frame to straighten the blue
         and white gondola poles. Right-click / Control-click the image, and choose Position
         Photo In Frame. To rotate the photo inside its frame, move the pointer close to any
         bounding box handle; when the pointer becomes a curved double-arrow cursor, drag the
         handle in either direction. Scale and position the photo within its frame as you did
         with its three neighbors; then, commit the changes.
      

6 Move the large photo on the right downward to align the lower edge of its frame with
         the group on the left. Double-click the Hand tool to see the entire spread.
      

7 Click the left-facing arrow above the Edit pane twice to move to pages 3 and 4.
      

Refining your Photo Book layout using layers and effects
In this exercise, you'll begin to polish your photo book design while you refresh
            some of the skills that you've picked up in the course of this lesson.
         

You'll start by customizing pages 3 and 4—the last untreated spread—then, you'll add
         some sophistication to the layout using a little layer magic.
      


 Tip
         
After you've cleared the frame from the large image, you can enlarge the image by
            1% to remove the pale border as you did in step 7 on page 258.
         


1 Double-click the Handmade Paper 03 swatch in the Favorites panel to replace the background;
         then, drag the Paper Frame swatch onto each of the three images on the left page.
         Drag the Gold Frame Ornate swatch onto the photo of an antique interior on the right
         page and the Gold Frame Round 2 swatch onto the photo of the couple. Right-click /
         Control-click the large backing image on the right, and choose Clear Frame from the
         context menu. From the Layers panel options menu, choose Collapse All Groups.
      

2 Right-click / Control-click each of the three photos on the left page, and choose
         Fit Frame to Photo from the context menu. Drag or nudge the three tilted photos to
         position them, and scale or rotate them as you wish. If you want to change the stacking
         order of a photo, right-click / Control-click the image, and choose Bring To Front,
         Bring Forward, Send Backward, or Send to Back from the context menu. Scale, move,
         or rotate each photo within its frame as needed, referring to the previous exercises
         if you need to refresh your memory.
      
3 For each of the two gold-framed photos, first make sure you are happy with the scaling
         and placement; then, select the framed image, right-click / Control-click its layer
         in the Layers panel, and choose Simplify Layer. Without this step, it would not be
         possible to apply layer styles to these particular framing groups.
      

4 Drag the High drop shadow swatch from the Favorites panel onto both of the gold-framed
         images on page 4. In the Layers panel, double-click the fx icon at the right of the listing for each of the simplified layers in turn to open
         the Style Settings dialog, where you can adjust the settings for the drop shadow effect.
         For both of the simplified gold-framed images, reduce the Distance setting to 55 px, and then click OK.
      

5 Click to select the full-page backing image on the right of the spread. At the top
         of the Layers panel, use the slider to reduce the selected layer's opacity to 40%.
      
Although this image is no longer grouped with a frame graphic, it is still contained
         in an invisible photo-holder frame, within which it can be moved, scaled, and rotated,
         just as you did with the other photos.
      
6 Revisit the page 5/6 spread, and apply the High drop shadow effect to the four small
         photos on the left page, first simplifying the respective layers in the Layers panel,
         as you did in step 3, and then editing the effect as you did in step 4.
      


Reordering the pages in a Photo Book
         
If you feel that a particular spread would look better placed at a different point
            in your photo book, it's very easy to change the page order.
         

1 You can start by revisiting the first spread: pages 1 and 2. Move, tilt, and scale
         the upper-right photo of the group on page 1 to add variety by breaking up the regular
         arrangement a little (see the illustration below step 3).
      

2 Double-click the smaller image on page 2; then, click the button to the right of
         the slider at the upper left of the frame to rotate this portrait-format photo to
         suit its horizontal frame. Click the button twice more to flip the image, and then
         use the slider to reduce it to fit the frame. When you're done, click the green checkmark
         to commit the change.
      
3 Rotate and move the image, together with its frame, to reveal more of the full-page
         image and hide the out-of-focus foliage at the bottom. Commit the changes.
      




 Tip
         
While you're working on a complex project like a photo book, you should save regularly
            to avoid losing time and effort. After saving, you'll need to click the Advanced Mode
            button in the actions bar to return to Advanced mode.
         


4 Click the Pages button () in the Taskbar to show the Pages preview. Drag the first spread downwards. Release
         the mouse button when you see an insertion line appear between the page 3/4 and page
         5/6 spreads. The first and second spreads change places, and the pages are renumbered.
         If the Pages panel previews are slow to redraw, click each of the thumbnails in turn.
      

Adding graphics to a project
         
It's easy to liven up a page design with a judicious use of graphics from the content
            library. You'll start by adding some atmosphere to the title page, so that the front
            cover of your photo book will create an evocative first impression.
         

1 Use the left arrow button in the bar above the Edit pane, or click the top thumbnail
         in the Pages preview, to move to the title page; then, click the Layers button () in the Taskbar to open the Layers panel. Collapse the layer groups.
      

2 The preset text frames included in many page-layout templates are useful for simple
         titles and captioning, but for this project you'll create your own text layers from
         scratch. Shift-click to select both of the text frames below the framed image, or
         select the two TXTFrame layers in the Layers panel; then, press Backspace / Delete
         on your keyboard, and click Yes to confirm the deletions.
      
3 Click the Tool Options button (), if necessary, to show the Tool Options pane. Select the framed photo, and then
         click any of the bounding box handles. In the Tool Options pane, type 30% in the Width (W) text box; with Constrain Proportions activated, the Height (H)
         value is updated automatically. Click the Commit button under the image frame.
      

4 While the framed photo is still selected, double-click the Gold Frame Ornate swatch
         in the Favorites panel; then, right-click / Control-click the image, and choose Fit
         Frame To Photo.
      
5 In the Favorites panel, double-click the Blue Swirly swatch to replace the background.
         In the Layers panel, right-click / Control click the Background layer, and choose
         Duplicate Layer from the context menu. Click OK to accept Background copy as the default
         name for the duplicate layer.
      

6 At the top of the Layers panel, set the layer blending mode to Multiply and the opacity
         to 50%. In the Edit window, hold down the Shift key to constrain the movement as you drag
         the new layer downward until it covers a little more than one third of the cover page.
      
7 Drag the swatch for the graphic Cruise Ship from the Favorites panel to the right
         side of the page. Watch the W (Width) and H (Height) values in the Tool Options pane
         as you drag one of the corner bounding box handles to enlarge the graphic to around
         200%. Choose Image > Rotate > Flip Layer Horizontal; then, click the checkmark below
         the bounding box to commit the change.
      

8 Drag the ship to position it as shown in the illustration at the right. To move the
         ship behind the photo frame, right-click / Control-click the graphic, and choose Send
         Backward from the context menu.
      
9 Drag the graphic Compass 02 from the Favorites panel to the upper left of the page,
         placing it as shown below. At the top of the Layers panel, change the blending mode
         for the new layer to Difference, and set the layer's opacity to 70%. Change the opacity for the Cruise Ship layer to the same value.
      


Placing text in a layout
In this exercise, you'll add a title on the cover and a message on the last page.



 Tip
         
If your Color Swatches picker looks different from the one in the illustration, simply
            resize it to show 12 swatches per row.
         


1 Select the Horizontal Type tool (); then, choose Bickham Script Pro from the font menu in the Tool Options pane. Set
         the style to Regular, and type 460 pt in the font size text box. Click the Center Text option, and ensure that Anti-aliasing
         is selected so that the letters are smoothed. Click the text color swatch below the
         font menus, and sample Light Green Cyan.
      

2 Click below the photo, and type Venice; then commit the text. At the top of the Layers panel, change the blending mode for
         the text layer to Difference and the opacity to 90%; then, drag the text layer downward in the layer order to position it below (behind)
         the framed photo. Drag the title, or use the arrow keys on your keyboard, to center
         it horizontally. Select the compass and the photo together and drag them to the right
         to center the frame above the "n" in Venice.
      
3 Right-click / Control-click the layer "_DZGold Frame Ornate 1" in the Layers panel,
         and choose Simplify Layer from the context menu; then, drag the High drop shadow effect
         from the Favorites panel onto the framed photo. In the Layers panel, double-click
         the fx icon on the frame layer, and reduce the drop shadow's Distance setting to 55 px;
         then, click OK.
      


4 Navigate to the last spread in the layout. Drag the Speech Bubble 05 swatch from
         the Favorites panel onto page 8. Use the handles on the bounding box to scale and
         stretch the shape; then, position it as shown in the illustration at the right. Commit
         the changes.
      
5 With the speech bubble graphic still selected, switch to the Type tool. Use the same
         font and text alignment setting you chose in step 1, but change the font size to 40
         pt, the font style to Semibold, and the text color to black. Click the arrow beside
         the Leading text box—to the right of the text color swatch—and change the Leading
         setting from Auto to 30 pt. Click in the center of the speech bubble, and type Gondola: mid 16th century; then, Press Enter / Return, and type "to rock and roll." (including the quote marks and period). Click the Confirm button, and drag the text
         to adjust its position.
      
6 Use the navigation buttons above the Edit window preview to move to the page 1/2
         spread. Drag the graphic Silver Flower Spray onto the left page. Rotate the artwork
         90° counterclockwise, and scale it to almost the width of the page. Move the flower
         spray so that it extends off the top edge of the page and commit the change. In the
         Layers panel, collapse all layer groups; then, move the layer Silver Flower Spray
         down in the stacking order, so that it lies below (behind) at least one of the paper-framed
         photos and above (in front of) at least one other.
      

7 Drag the Gold Flourish Corner graphic onto the right page of the page 5 and 6 spread.
         Choose Image > Rotate > Flip Layer Horizontal, and then Image > Rotate > Flip Layer
         Vertical. In the Layers panel, collapse all layer groups; then, change the blending
         mode for the new layer to Screen. Move the Gold Flourish Corner layer below (behind)
         all of the Paper Frame layers. Scale the graphic and position it as shown below; then,
         commit the changes.
      

8 The Photo Book is complete; choose File > Save. By default, photo projects are saved
         in Photo Project Format, a multipage document format that preserves text and layers
         so that they can be edited later. You could also choose to save the project as a PDF
         file that can be shared as an email attachment.
      

9 Choose File > Export Photobook. In the Export Photobook dialog, choose the PDF format.
         Click Browse to specify your My CIB Work folder as the Save To Location; then, click
         OK. Choose File > Close, and close without re-saving.
      


Creating a slide show
         
Whether you're sharing memories at home with family and friends, presenting your work
            to a client, or posting to a social media or sharing site, a slide show makes a compelling
            and dynamic way to showcase your photos.
         

For this project, we'll use a set of photos captured in New York, but if you prefer,
         you can import a selection of your own photos, and then improvise a little as you
         follow the exercise steps.
      
1 In the Organizer, isolate the Lesson 9 images, and then shift-click to select just
         the first nine photos in the Slideshow series. Click the Create tab and choose Slideshow
         from the menu; then, watch as the default slide show plays through.
      

2 When playback has finished, click the Themes button () in the actions bar at the left.
      
On the Themes tab, the Slideshow Editor offers a choice of preset templates with a
         variety of slide layouts and transition styles. Once you choose a Theme, you can edit
         the titles, add captions, and change the default soundtrack.
      
3 Try a few of the templates by double-clicking the thumbnails on the Themes tab. You
         can interrupt playback at any time by clicking the Themes button. When you're done,
         double-click to apply the City Lights template.
      
4 Pause and resume playback by pressing the Space bar, or use the pause and play controls
         on the playback bar. Use the slider to adjust the volume of the soundtrack music.
         Click the Media button () in the actions bar.
      
The Media pane shows the nine photos that you selected, and a preset title screen.

5 Click the Add Photos And Videos button at the upper right of the Media pane and choose
         Add Photos And Videos From Organizer.
      
6 Activate the Media From The Grid option under Basic to view only the Lesson 9 images.
         Scroll down and shift-click to select the last three of the New York images. Click
         the Add Selected Media button; then, click Done.
      
The three new images appear in the Media pane of the Slideshow Editor.

7 In the Media pane, shift-click to select the last two images in the second row, and
         then drag them to the left; release the mouse button when you see a blue line between
         the second and third images.
      

8 Activate the option Add Captions, at the right above the Media preview. Add a caption
         to every second or third photo in the Media pane by clicking in the text box below
         the image and typing a short phrase.
      

Another way to add text to your presentation is to add a title slide that can help
         introduce a theme, provide information, or create atmosphere.
      


 Tip
         
For a more involved title screen, such as the cover of the photo book in the previous
            project, create a new slide in the Editor, where you can work with layers, effects,
            extras from the graphics library, and a full suite of text tools.
         


9 In the Media pane, right-click / Control-click the default title slide and choose
         Edit; then, click the arrow at the right of the text screen preview twice to select
         the third layout option. Type small secrets in the Title text box, and then click in the Subtitle text box and type of the big city. Click Save to apply the changes.
      
10 Each theme includes a music track; to replace the default soundtrack, click the Audio
         button () in the actions bar; then click the minus sign at the right of the track Citylights
         in the Selected Tracks list.
      


 Note
         
For our lesson project, the presentation includes only twelve photos; for a large
            selection of images, you can add as many music tracks as you wish.
         


11 Click the Add Audio button at the upper right of the Audio list. Navigate to and
         open the Extras folder inside your Lesson 9 folder. Select the file Backslider.m4a
         and click Open. Click the plus sign to the right of the new track in the Audio list
         to add it to the Selected Tracks list; then, click the Audio button in the actions
         pane to launch the slide show preview. Watch until playback is complete.
      
12 Click the Save button (not the arrow beside it) above the preview pane. Type NY Secrets as the name for the slide show, and then click Save. Leave the Slideshow Editor open
         for the next exercise.
      
You can open and edit your saved slide show at any time from the Media browser to
         add photos, change the slide order or the music, or update titles and captions.
      

Export the slide show to Facebook or disk
Once you've saved your slide show, you can share it as a video to Facebook, Vimeo,
            or YouTube­—or export it to your hard disk as a high-definition video file.
         



 Tip
         
The procedure for sharing to Vimeo or Youtube is similar; if necessary, you will first
            be required to sign in or create an account.
         


1 In the Slideshow Editor, click the Export button at the upper right. Choose Facebook
         and wait while Photoshop Elements converts your slide show to video. In the Facebook
         dialog, sign in if necessary; then enter a title and description and specify a sharing
         audience. For now, click Cancel rather than posting the video to your Facebook page.
      
2 Click the Export button again, and choose Export Video To Local Disk so that you
         have a finished version ready to play. In the Export dialog, type a name for your
         slide show, specify your My CIB Work folder as the destination, and choose either
         720p HD or 1080p HD from the Quality settings; then, click OK to save the slide show
         in .mp4 video format.
      

Creating a Facebook cover photo layout
For many of us, using Facebook to share with friends—and the world at large—has become
            part of our daily routine.
         

The Facebook Cover tool makes it simple to create properly-sized profile and cover
         photo combinations for Facebook, and enables you to quickly arrange your images creatively
         by using layout templates; layers; drawing, painting, and text tools; and all your
         favorite extras from the Photoshop Elements graphics libraries.
      
1 In the Organizer, isolate the lesson 9 photos, if necessary; then, Ctrl-click / Command-click
         to select the images photobook_11.jpg and photobook_20.jpg. Click the Create button
         at the upper right and choose Facebook Cover.
      
2 The Facebook Cover setup dialog looks and works very much like the setup dialog you
         used in the Photo Book project. In the left pane, choose the Multiple Photos and Single
         Photo theme categories in turn; for each category, click through the Theme thumbnails
         to preview the different layouts available.
      
3 Choose the Multiple Photos > Clean theme; then, disable the Autofill With Selected
         Photos option and click OK. Click the Advanced Mode button at the upper left; then,
         click the Layers button at the right of the Taskbar. Click the Photo Bin button () in the Taskbar to show the Photo Bin, and then use the Zoom slider above the work
         preview to adjust your view.
      
If you had enabled the autofill option, the selected photos would have been placed
         in the order in which they appear in the Media Browser; in this case, the photo with
         the faces would appear as the cover photo and the Venetian houses would have become
         the profile picture.
      
When you're unhappy with the placement of your photos, you can replace them manually,
         as you'll do in the next step.
      


 Tip
         
Refer to the Photo Book project to brush up on how to use layers, text, and the graphics
            library to enhance your design.
         


4 Drag the photo of the canal houses onto the cover photo placeholder. Use the controls
         to scale and rotate the image as shown below; start by reducing the photo enough to
         rotate it by dragging outside a corner bounding box handle. When you're done, click
         the Commit button (). Drag the other photo to the profile frame. Use the controls to improve the crop;
         then, commit the changes.
      



 Tip
         
You can go ahead and upload the results of this exercise to your Facebook page with
            confidence; the post, and the associated notice in your Newsfeed, will not be visible
            to anyone but you, unless you change the sharing settings in Facebook.
         


5 Click the Upload button in the Taskbar. If necessary, follow the steps to authorize
         Photoshop Elements to post to Facebook.
      
6 Make sure that both the Set Profile Picture and Set Cover Photo options are activated;
         then, click Next.
      
7 Read the instructions on how to place your uploaded photos once you're at your Facebook
         profile page, and then click Continue to open Facebook.
      
8 In Facebook, locate your profile photos in the Photoshop Elements album and examine
         the sharing settings. Back in Photoshop Elements, close the file.
      

Creative framing with layer masks
         
There are endless ways to use layer masks to edit, blend, and combine photos. In this
            exercise you'll paint directly into a layer mask to produce a free-form cutout frame—another
            great way to add creative flair to an everyday image.
         

1 In the Organizer, isolate the images for this lesson, if necessary, by clicking the
         Lesson 9 folder in the My Folders list. Select the image 09_Girls.jpg in the Media
         Browser; then, click the Editor button () in the Taskbar.
      
2 If the Editor is not in Expert mode, click Expert in the mode picker, and then choose
         Window > Reset Panels. If you don't see tabs for the Layers, Effects, Filters, Styles,
         and Graphics panels at the top of the Panel Bin, click the arrow beside the More button
         () at the right of the Taskbar and choose Custom Workspace from the menu. Drag the
         Layers panel out of the Panel Bin by its name tab and position it where it won't block
         your view of the Edit pane.
      

3 Right-click / Control-click the image's single layer, the Background layer, and choose
         Duplicate Layer from the context menu. In the Duplicate Layer dialog box, click OK
         to accept the default layer name, Background copy.
      

4 Click the eye icon () beside the Background layer to hide it. With the new layer, Background copy, selected
         in the Layers panel, click the Add Layer Mask button () at the top of the panel.
      
The new Layer Mask thumbnail on the Background copy layer is highlighted by a blue
         border, indicating that it is selected—or active—ready for editing.
      
5 Choose Edit > Fill Layer. In the Fill Layer dialog box, choose Black From the Use
         menu, and then click OK.
      
The solid black fill in the layer mask obscures the photo on the Background copy layer
         completely. With the Background layer also hidden from view, the image window shows
         only the checkerboard pattern that indicates layer transparency.
      
6 Click the barred eye icon () beside the Background layer to make the layer visible again. Hold down the Shift
         key; then, Alt-click / Option-click the layer mask thumbnail to show the mask as a
         semi-transparent red overlay.
      
7 Click the Eraser tool () in the toolbar to select the tool and access the tool settings. In the Tool Options
         pane, make sure that Brush is selected in the eraser's Type options at the right and
         that the Opacity is set to 100%.
      

8 Click the arrow beside the sample brush stroke to open the Brush Picker and choose
         Thick Heavy Brushes from the Brushes menu. The name of each brush appears in a tooltip
         when you hold the pointer over the swatch. Double-click the second brush in the set,
         the Rough Flat Bristle brush: then, press the right bracket key (]) six times to increase
         the brush size to 300 pixels.
      
9 With the Eraser tool, scribble a rough line in the image window to quickly clear
         the red overlay from the faces of all four girls.
      

10 Hold down Shift+Alt / Shift+Option and click the layer mask thumbnail to hide the
         mask overlay; then, click the eye icon to hide the Background layer again. As you
         can see, the Rough Flat Bristle brush is partly transparent. In the image window,
         make another short stroke or two over each girl's face.
      


 Tip
         
When you wish to make a hard-edged mask, you can use any of the mechanical selection
            tools (either the Rectangular or Elliptical Marquee tool, or the Polygonal Lasso tool)
            rather than a brush or an eraser. You could also use any of the bitmapped Shapes from
            the Graphics library as the basis for your clipping mask.
         



You could place a new background on a lower layer, either by pasting from another
         photo, or by choosing from the background artwork in the Graphics library. For now,
         you'll save your work and look at a related Guided Edit effect.
      
11 Choose File > Save As. Name the new file 09_Girls_BrushMask, to be saved to your work folder in Photoshop format with layers enabled. Include
         the image in the Organizer, but not as part of a Version Set. Click Save; then, close
         the file.
      

Making a photo look like a painting
The Painterly guided edit uses layer masks to make a photo look like a work of art,
            complete with brush strokes, texture and effects.
         

1 Open the same image that you used in the previous exercise in the Editor, and then
         switch to the Fun Edits tab in the Guided edit mode. Click the preview for the Painterly
         project.
      
2 Click the Paint Brush button and choose Bold Strokes from the preset menu. Reduce
         the brush size to 155 pixels and click on two faces that are not beside each other.
         Increase the brush to 170 pixels and use the Brush Angle control to rotate the brush
         at least 45 degrees; then, click on the other 2 faces. Make a few more clicks to pick
         up as much of the photo as you like, changing the brush size, angle and opacity each
         time. Switch the brush to Hide mode, and vary the size, angle, and opacity as you
         make a few more clicks around the edges of the image.
      
3 Choose a basic black or white canvas, or click the Select Custom Color button and
         use the eyedropper to pick up a color from the image.
      
4 Choose a texture and an artistic effect to finish the project.
      

5 Choose the Next button; then, click Save As. Activate the option Include In The Elements
         Organizer and disable Save In Version Set With Original. Name the file appropriately,
         and then save it to your My CIB Work folder. Close the file.
      

Applying a watercolor effect
         
Now that you know what's involved in layering a composite image, you'll appreciate
            another of the latest additions to the Guided edit mode; the Replace Background guided
            edit, new in Photoshop Elements 2018, automates much of the process.
         

1 In the Organizer, select the image 09_Mediterranean.jpg and click the Editor button
         () in the Taskbar. In the Editor, switch to Guided mode. Click the preview in the Special
         Edits category to launch the Watercolor Effect project.
      
2 In the actions pane at the right, the first step is to select from three preset watercolor
         effect styles; for our lesson image, choose Effect 1, the softest of the three styles.
      

3 Click Watercolor Paper and sample a few of the simulated paper styles; the options
         range from wet paper styles to distressed and antique surfaces, boosting the watercolor
         effect by adding the look of natural materials. When you're done, click the second
         thumbnail in the second row, a wet paper with inky, pastel hues.
      

4 Set the opacity of the simulated surface to 80%; as you drag the slider, the numerical
         value appears in a tooltip above the pointer.
      
5 Now click Canvas Texture and select the second thumbnail to apply the coarsest of
         the texture options. You can leave the intensity setting at the default.
      
6 Click the Refine Effect Brush. Make sure the brush is in Subtract mode and set its
         size and opacity to 50 pixels and 80%, respectively. The Refine Effect Brush softens
         or removes the effect of the watercolor paper overlay in areas where it interferes
         with the image. Soften the wet paper detail on the crown of the girl's hat and the
         front of its brim. Set the brush opacity to 100%; then remove the inky stains from
         the girl's bare back and arms, and the sunlit parts of her legs.
      
7 Click the Type Tool; the tool options pane opens below the preview. Set the type
         options as shown below. Choose the font Lithos Pro Regular, and then set the color
         to white and the size to 48 pt. Type in the text box to set the leading to 40 pt. Click the third of the alignment buttons to right-align the text.
      

8 Click to set a text insertion point that is centered vertically in the image and
         a little inside the right edge. Type dreaming of; then, press Enter / Return and type the islands. Click the green check mark to commit the text; then, drag the text to center it
         between the girl and the right edge of the image. Align the top of the text with the
         point where the hat brim intersects the girl's neck.
      
9 Click the Text Style button in the actions pane and choose Style 2; then, click the
         Advanced button. In the Style Settings dialog, set the lighting angle to 135°. Use
         the Drop Shadow controls to set the size of the shadow to 10 pixels, the distance
         to 20 pixels, and the shadow opacity to 25%; then, click OK.
      
10 Click Next at the lower right of the workspace; then, under Continue Editing, choose
         In Expert. In the Layers panel, use the eye icon beside each layer in turn to hide
         and show the layer. Select each layer in turn and inspect its blending mode and opacity
         settings. Experiment with the layered image in any way that interests you, remembering
         to undo each change.
      

11 Choose File > Save As. Save the file with all its layers in Photoshop format, with
         an appropriate name and all the usual settings; then, choose File > Close.
      

Getting creative with text
         
Adding a title or caption is a great way to fit an image to a specific purpose, such
            as a cover page for a printed document or a title screen for a slide show, but text
            can also be used imaginatively to suggest meaning, emphasize context, add humor, or
            evoke emotion. Photoshop Elements delivers a suite of type tools that provide limitless
            creative possibilities for fitting text to your images, whatever the purpose.
         


Fitting text to a selection
One of several type tool variants that enable you to shape your text creatively to
            image elements in your photos, the Text On Selection tool makes it easy to wrap your
            message around any pictured object.
         

1 In the Organizer, select the images 09_Type1.jpg and 09_Type2.jpg in the Media Browser,
         and then click the Editor button () in the Taskbar. Make sure the Editor is in Expert mode; then, choose Window > Reset
         Panels. If you don't see tabs for the Layers, Effects, Filters, Styles, and Graphics,
         panels at the top of the Panel Bin, click the arrow beside the More button () at the right of the Taskbar and choose Custom Workspace from the menu. At the top
         of the Edit pane, click the name tab for 09_Type1.jpg to bring its image window to
         the front.
      
The Text On Selection tool () can make its own selections, but it can also be used with a selection that is already
         established. For this exercise, you'll first create and fine-tune a selection so that
         you can have your text follow a path well outside the edge of the selected object,
         rather than wrapping tightly to its outline.
      
2 In the toolbar, click the Quick Selection tool (), beside the Lasso tool. If you don't see the Quick Selection tool, Alt-click / Option-click
         its variant, the Selection Brush () to switch tools; then drag inside the sculpture to select the figure, together with
         his seat. You don't need to be very precise, but if you go too far, hold down the
         Alt / Option key as you paint to subtract from the selection.
      

3 When you're done, choose Select > Modify > Expand. In the Expand Selection dialog
         box, set the Expand By value to 40 pixels; then click OK. Alt-click / Option-click the Quick Selection tool to switch
         to the Selection Brush (). Use a medium brush to round out any tight angles on the selection outline. Hold
         the Alt / Option key as you paint to remove any obvious lumps and bumps along the
         edge.
      
For the sake of comparison, the illustration at right shows the expanded Quick Selection
         as a dashed line, and the smoothed outline as a red overlay, which is just as you'll
         see it if you switch the Selection Brush to Mask mode.
      

4 In the toolbar, click whichever variant of the Type tool is currently visible. In
         the Tool Options pane, select the Text On Selection tool () from the seven tool variants at the left. Set the font to Arial, the style to Bold,
         the size to 18 pt, and change the text color to white.
      
5 Move the tool over the image in the Edit window; the pointer changes to the Quick
         Selection cursor. Click inside the active selection; then click the green check mark
         to convert the selection into a path for your text.
      
6 Move the tool over the newly created path; the pointer becomes a text insertion cursor.
         Click above the figure's neck and type this quote from Leonardo da Vinci: men of lofty genius are most active when they are doing the least work.
      
7 The tool options pane now shows the full suite of options for horizontal type. If
         necessary, activate the Center Text () alignment option.
      


 Tip
         
When you're dragging to reposition the text, be careful to keep your cursor on the
            outside of the outline; otherwise, the text will flip to wrap around the inside of
            the path. You can add extra spaces between words or letters, where needed, to reduce
            clumping.
         


8 Click in the text near your starting point with the text insertion tool. Release
         the mouse button; then, hold the Ctrl / Command key and drag the text left or right
         to fine-tune its placement on the path, referring to the illustration below. When
         you're happy with the result, click the green check mark to commit the text.
      

9 Choose File > Save. Name the file 09_Thinker, to be saved to your work folder in Photoshop format with Layers enabled, and included
         in the Organizer, but not as part of a Version Set. Click Save, and then close the
         file.
      


Wrapping text around a shape
The Text On Shape tool () works in much the same way as the Text On Selection tool, except that the first
            step is to draw a vector shape with one of a selection of shape tools, rather than
            to make a selection.
         

1 With the image 09_Type2.jpg in the Edit pane, hold Ctrl / Command and press the minus
         sign key three or four times, so that you can see a lot of empty gray space around
         the photo, as shown in the illustration for step 3.
      



 Tip
         
If you don't have the Brush Script font, choose another script typeface, or any font
            of comparable weight that has a similarly organic feel.
         


2 In the toolbar, click the Text On Selection tool, or whichever Type tool variant
         is currently active. In the tool options pane select the Text On Shape tool () from the variants at the left. Set the font to Brush Script Std and the size to
         36 pt. Choose the Ellipse tool from the shape options. You'll apply color to the type
         in the next exercise.
      

3 Hold down the Alt / Option key so that your shape will be drawn from the center outwards.
         Drag with the Ellipse tool, starting from a point in the gray "artboard" well below
         the image, and a little right of center. Match the ellipse to the upper curve of the
         rainbow, making sure to allow clearance so that your text will run parallel to the
         rainbow, rather than interfering with its edge.
      
4 Hold Ctrl / Command and press the plus sign key three or four times, so that the
         photo fills your view. Move the Text On Shape tool over the upper edge of the ellipse
         and click with the text insertion cursor at the highest point of the curve. Type Somewhere, under the Rainbow. Click the green check mark.
      
Once you've committed the text, the Move tool becomes active by default, and the text
         becomes selected as an object that can be moved, scaled, and rotated on its own layer,
         just like any other graphic. To edit the content of the text, you would first need
         to activate one of the Type tools.
      
5 Drag the text, or use the arrow keys on your keyboard, to adjust its placement.
      

Using preset text styles
You can apply any of the filters and layer styles from the Effects panel to your text,
            adding bevels, shadows, glows, textures, and gradients to create your own text effects.
            Some editing operations require that you first "simplify" the text layer to a bitmapped
            graphic that can no longer be edited as live text. In this exercise, you'll apply
            a preset text style from the Graphics panel instead.
         


1 Click the Graphics tab at the top of the Panel Bin. Set the Graphics panel's sorting
         menu to By Type, and then choose Text from the adjacent categories menu. Scroll down
         through the swatches to see the many preset styles available in the Graphics library.
      
2 Drag the Gradient Blue Medium style from the fourth row of text presets onto the
         text in the Edit pane; then, click the green check mark to commit the change.
      

3 Click the Layers tab at the top of the Panel Bin to show the Layers panel. Double-click
         the fx icon on the text layer to open the Style Settings dialog box. Set the Lighting angle
         to -90. Check the box to activate the Drop Shadow effect. Increase the drop shadow Size
         to 10 px, and the Opacity to 85%. Click the small color swatch beside the Drop Shadow settings and change the color
         from black to a deep, saturated blue; then, click OK to close the Style Settings dialog
         box.
      


 Tip
         
Your text is still "live" and editable. Simply double-click the text to activate the
            text tool; then swipe over the words you wish to edit, or place the text insertion
            point and start typing to add to the message.
         


4 As a final touch, you can soften the effect a little by using the slider at the upper
         right of the Layers panel to reduce the opacity of the text layer to 85%.
      

5 Save the file as 09_Somewhere, and then close it.
      

More fun with type
As its name suggests, the Text On Custom Path tool—the last of this group of Type
            tools—lets you draw and tweak a freehand path for your text to follow, providing the
            perfect solution for images like the example at the right, where creating a path automatically
            from a selection is not an option.
         


Try clicking the Create Warped Text button at the right of the Type tool controls
         in the tool options pane to discover how you can warp, bloat, pinch, twist, and otherwise
         torture your type.
      

Creating a type mask
         
The Type Mask tool () turns text outlines into a layer mask through which an underlying image is visible,
            effectively filling the letter shapes with image detail. This can create far more
            visual impact than using plain text filled with a solid color.
         



 Note
         
The Type Mask tool has one variant for horizontal type and another for vertical type.


1 In the Organizer, isolate the lesson images by clicking the Lesson 9 folder in the
         My Folders list. Right-click / Control-click the image 09_Runners.jpg and choose Edit
         With Photoshop Elements Editor from the context menu.
      
2 Make sure the Editor is in Expert mode; then, choose Window > Reset Panels. If you
         don't see tabs for the Layers, Effects, Filters, Styles, and Graphics panels at the
         top of the Panel Bin, click the arrow beside the More button () at the right of the Taskbar and choose Custom Workspace from the menu.
      
3 Drag the Layers panel out of the Panel Bin by its name tab and position it where
         it won't block your view of the Edit pane. Choose Window > Favorites and drag the
         Favorites panel to a convenient position. Choose Window > Panel Bin to hide the Panel
         Bin; then, double-click the Hand tool or choose View > Fit On Screen.
      
4 In the toolbar, click whichever variant of the Type tool is currently visible in
         the bottom row of the Draw category. In the Tool Options pane, click to select the
         Horizontal Type Mask tool () from the tool variants at the left.
      

5 Set up the text attributes in the tool options pane: Choose a font from the Font
         Family menu. We chose Mercurius CT Std, Black Italic, but if you don't have that font,
         choose any typeface that's blocky enough to let plenty of the image show through the
         letter forms. Type a new value of 950 pt for the font Size (you may need to adjust that for a different font). Choose Center
         Text () from the paragraph alignment options. You don't need to worry about a color for
         the text; the type will be filled with detail from our marathon image.
      
6 Click at a horizontally centered point low in the image and type RUN!

7 Hold down the Ctrl / Command key on your keyboard; a bounding box surrounds the text
         in the image window. Drag inside the bounding box to reposition the type mask.
      
8 If you wish to resize the text, hold down the Ctrl / Command key and drag a corner
         handle of the bounding box. The operation is automatically constrained so that the
         text is scaled proportionally. Alternatively, you can double-click the text with the
         Type Mask tool to select it, and then type a new font size in the tool options bar.
      
9 When you're satisfied with the result, click the green Commit button in the tool
         options bar. The outline of the text becomes an active selection. If you're not happy
         with the placement of the selection, use the arrow keys on your keyboard to nudge
         it into place.
      

10 Choose Edit > Copy, and then Edit > Paste. In the Layers panel, you can see that
         the cutout type image has been placed onto a new layer, surrounded by transparency.
      
11 Hide the Background layer by clicking the eye icon beside the layer thumbnail.
      


Adding impact to a type mask
The text is no longer live—the mask was converted to a selection outline, so it can
            no longer be edited with a text tool; however, you can still apply a layer style or
            an effect to enhance it or make it more prominent.
         

1 If necessary, select Layer 1 in the Layers panel to make it active. With the Move
         tool (), drag the type to center it in the image window; then, press the up arrow and right
         arrow keys eight times each.
      

2 In the Favorites panel, click the swatch for the High drop-shadow effect.
      

3 In the Layers panel, double-click the fx icon on Layer 1. In the Style Settings dialog box, set the Lighting Angle to 45°. Increase the Drop Shadow Size to 40 px, the Distance to 50 px, and the Opacity to 80%; then, click OK.
      
4 In the Layers panel, select the Background Layer. Make the layer visible; then, choose
         Image > Rotate > Flip Layer Horizontal. Click OK to confirm the conversion of the
         background, and then click OK to accept the default name.
      

5 Choose Enhance > Adjust Color > Adjust Hue/Saturation. In the Hue/Saturation dialog
         box, reduce the Saturation value to -60, increase the Lightness to +60, and then click OK.
      



 Tip
         
The Photo Text guided edit automates the process of producing a type mask. Try taking
            the image from this exercise through the Photo Text project, to see which method you
            prefer. When you're done, inspect the new layers in Expert mode.
         


6 Choose File > Save As. In the Save As dialog box, choose Photoshop (PSD) as the file
         format, enable layers, and save the file to your My CIB Work folder. Make sure that
         the new file will be included in the Organizer, but not in a Version Set; then, name
         the file 09_runners_mask and click Save. Close the file.
      
Congratulations! You've completed the lesson. You've explored the Graphics library
         and become familiar with a variety of methods for locating the artwork you need. You've
         also learned how set up a project in Create mode, how to replace and manipulate backgrounds,
         frames, and text, and the basics of working with layers and layer styles. You've had
         some fun with type and gained more experience with layer masks.
      
Before you move on to the next lesson, take a moment to refresh your new skills by
         reading through the review on the facing page.
      


Review questions
1 How do you begin a new project, such as a greeting card or Photo Book?
            


2 How do you scale and reposition a photo in a photo project?
      
3 How can you find the items you want amongst all the choices in the Graphics library?
      
4 What are layers, how do they work, and how do you work with them?
      
5 How do you add more photos or videos to a slide show?
      


Review answers
1 To create a project, select the photos you want to use in the Organizer, or open
               them from the Editor; then, choose a project option on the Create tab at the upper
               right of either workspace. Once you've chosen a theme, the right panel group presents
               page previews and provides access to layers, layout templates, graphics, and effects.
            

2 You can scale or rotate a framed photo by dragging the bounding box handles, and
            move it by dragging. To scale, rotate, or move a photo within its frame, you need
            to double-click the image to isolate it before using the same techniques, so that
            the changes affect the photo independently of its frame.
         
3 You can sort and search the items in the Graphics library by using the menus and
            text box at the top of the Content panel. You can sort the content by type, activity,
            mood, season, color, keywords, and other attributes. Use the Favorites panel to assemble
            a collection of the items you're most likely to use, rather than looking through the
            entire library every time you want to add an artwork item to a project.
         
4 Layers are like transparent overlays on which you can paint or place photos, artwork,
            or text. Each element in a photo project occupies its own layer—the background is
            at the bottom, and the other elements are overlaid in the order in which they are
            added to the project. You work with layers in the Layers panel, where you can toggle
            their visibility, drag to change their order, and add layer styles, effects, and masks.
            To make changes to a layer mask rather than to the image on that layer, first select
            the black-and-white mask thumbnail to the right of the image thumbnail. The checkerboard
            grid areas in the layer thumbnails represent the transparent parts of the layers through
            which you can see the layers below.
         
5 While a slide show is playing, click the Edit button to enter the Slideshow Builder.
            Click the Add Media button, and choose Photos and Videos from Elements Organizer.
         








10. Printing, Sharing, and Exporting


Lesson overview
In previous lessons you've imported images from a range of sources, explored a variety
            of ways to organize and find your files, learned how to correct and enhance photos,
            and then created projects and presentations to showcase them.
         
In this lesson, you'll learn about outputting your images and creations so that you
            can share them with family, friends, or the world at large:
         
• Printing a contact sheet
         
• Printing a Picture Package
         
• Printing individual photos
         
• Fine-tuning the composition of an image in the print preview
         
• Sharing photos by email
         
• Backing up your catalog and media files
         
• Sharing your photos online
         
• Exporting images for use on the web
         

You'll probably need between one and two hours to complete this lesson. If you haven't
            already done so, log in to your peachpit.com account to download the lesson files for this chapter, or follow the instructions
            under "Accessing the Classroom in a Book Lesson Files" in the Getting Started section
            at the beginning of this book.
         



Now that you've organized and searched the images in your growing collection, corrected
            and enhanced your photos, and created stylish presentations to showcase them, it's
            time to let Photoshop Elements help you share your images and creations with the world—as
            printed output, by email, or online.
         


Getting started
         
You'll begin by importing the sample images for this lesson to your CIB Catalog.



 Note
         
Before you start this lesson, make sure that you've set up a folder for your lesson
            files and downloaded the Lesson 10 folder from your Account page at www.peachpit.com, as detailed in "Accessing the Classroom in a Book Lesson Files" and "Creating a
            work folder" in the "Getting Started" section at the beginning of this book. You should
            also have created a new work catalog (see "Creating a catalog for working with this book" in Lesson 1).
         


1 Start Photoshop Elements, and click Organizer in the Welcome Screen. In the Organizer,
         check the lower-right corner of the workspace to make sure that your CIB Catalog is
         loaded—if not, choose File > Manage Catalogs, and load it.
      
2 Click the Import button at the upper left of the workspace, and choose From Files
         and Folders from the drop-down menu; then, locate and select the Lesson 10 folder.
         Activate the option Get Photos From Subfolders, and disable all of the automatic processing
         options; then, click Get Media.
      
3 In the Import Attached Keyword Tags dialog, click Select All; then, click OK.
      
Thumbnails of the images you've just imported appear in the Media Browser. The bar
         above the thumbnails indicates that you are viewing newly imported files.
      

About printing
Photoshop Elements offers a range of options for printing your ­photographs as well
            as projects such as photo books, greeting cards, and photo collages. You can output
            any Photoshop Elements print job from your home printer or take advantage of Adobe
            partner services to order professional prints online.
         

You can print photos individually (in batches or one at a time), have Photoshop Elements
         generate a picture package layout that repeats the same image at a variety of sizes
         on the same page, or preview a multiple selection of photos as thumbnail images arranged
         on a printed contact sheet.
      

Printing a contact sheet
Before the advent of digital photography, a contact sheet or contact proof was produced by laying strips of film negatives directly onto a sheet of photographic
            paper, which was then exposed in the darkroom to create a printed preview of every
            shot on the roll. Photoshop Elements offers the option of printing a digital contact
            sheet—an effective and economical way to print-preview a selection of images at thumbnail
            size, arranged in a grid layout on a single sheet of paper.
         

To learn how to set up a contact sheet on macOS, skip ahead to the next exercise.
      

Printing a contact sheet on Windows
1 Click the Back button () at the left of the actions bar above the thumbnail grid, so that the Media Browser
            displays all the images in your catalog.
         

2 At the top of the left panel, click Folders, and then, in the My Folder list, select
         the folder To_Print. Press Ctrl+A to select all the images in the source folder.
      
3 Choose File > Print.
      


 Tip
         
You can also open the Prints dialog in contact-sheet mode from the Create tab above
            the right panel group. Choose Photo Prints from the Create menu, and then click Contact
            Sheet. If you cancel a print job that was launched from the Create menu, you'll also
            need to click Cancel in the Taskbar below the Create panel.
         


The Prints dialog opens. The column on the left displays thumbnails of all the ­photos
         you selected for this print job. At center stage is the print preview.
      

4 In the Prints dialog, choose a printer from the Select Printer menu. For the ­purposes
         of this demonstration, set the paper size to Letter. From the Select Type of Print
         menu, choose Contact Sheet; make sure the Crop To Fit option is ­deselected. Under
         Select a Layout, the number of columns should be set to 4, so that all 20 photos will
         fit neatly on a single page.
      



 Tip
         
To remove a photo from the contact sheet, select its thumb-nail in the column at the
            left, and click the Remove button () below the menu pane.
         



The contact sheet layout includes all the images in the thumbnail column at the left.
         A page count below the print preview indicates that you are viewing page 1 of 1.
      
5 Under Select a Layout, click the down arrow button beside the Columns number, or
         type 3 in the text box: With only three columns, the images are larger, but only nine photos
         will fit on a single page at this paper size, so the page count below the print preview
         now indicates that you are viewing page 1 of 3. Use the Next Page and Previous Page
         buttons on either side of the page count to navigate between the pages. Change the
         number of columns to nine, which is the maximum. You can see that a single letter-size
         page can accommodate many photos at this setting. Return the layout to four columns.
      
6 Click to select any photo in the print preview; then, use the slider below the preview
         pane to zoom in. Drag the photo to reposition it within the frame of its image cell.
         Select another image, and then use the Rotate buttons to the left of the zoom slider
         to change the photo's orientation.
      


 Note
         
Some words in the text label may be truncated, depending on the page setup and column
            layout.
         


7 To print information extracted from the images' metadata below each photo on the
         contact sheet, first click to activate Show Print Options (just below the Columns
         setting), and then select any or all of the text label options.
      
8 Click Print or Cancel, and skip to "Printing a Picture Package" on the next page.
      

Printing a contact sheet on macOS
On macOS, you initiate a contact-sheet print from the Editor. For this demonstration,
            we'll use all the photos in a single folder; it will be quicker to open the Editor
            without first making a selection in the Organizer. If you want to print a contact
            sheet with photos drawn from multiple folders, you'll need to select the images in
            the Media Browser, and then switch to the Editor.
         

1 Press Shift+Command+A to deselect any images that are currently selected in the Media
         Browser; then, click the Editor button () in the Taskbar. If necessary, click Expert in the mode picker to switch the Editor
         to Expert mode.
      



 Tip
         
The alternative option in the Use menu under Source Images fills your contact sheet
            with whatever images are already open in the Editor. You would use this setting if
            you had made a selection of images in the Media Browser before switching to the Editor.
         


2 Choose File > Contact Sheet II. Set up the Contact Sheet dialog as shown in the illustration
         at the right. Choose Folder from the Use menu under Source Images. Click Choose, and
         locate your Lesson 10/To_Print folder. Click Open. In the Document settings, specify
         a size for your contact sheet. Under Thumbnails, specify the order in which the images
         will be placed. Select Use Auto-Spacing; then, type 4 and 5 in the Columns and Rows boxes respectively. Your Columns and Rows settings are reflected
         in the layout preview at the right. Deselect Rotate for Best Fit, and select Use Filename
         As Caption.
      

3 Click OK, and then wait while Photoshop Elements places the images and captions.
      
In our example, all 20 images fit onto a single page. When the number of images selected
         for printing exceeds the capacity of a single page at the layout settings specified,
         Photoshop Elements generates more pages to accommodate the extra photos.
      


 Tip
         
You can also open the Prints dialog in contact-sheet mode from the Create tab above
            the right panel group. Choose Photo Prints from the Create menu, and then click Contact
            Sheet. If you do this from the Organizer, you'll see a message asking if you'd like
            to open the Editor to initiate printing. If you cancel a print job that was launched
            from the Create menu, you'll also need to click Cancel in the Taskbar below the Create
            panel.
         


4 Select the contact-sheet page(s) in the Photo Bin. Choose File > Print if you wish
         to print the contact sheet. If not, choose File > Close; then, click Don't Save.
      

Printing a Picture Package
A Picture Package layout lets you print a photo repeated at a choice of sizes on the
            same page, much as professional portrait studios do. You can choose from a variety
            of layout options and range of image sizes to customize your picture package print.
         

To set up a picture package print on macOS, skip ahead to the next exercise.

Printing a Picture Package on Windows
1 Select two or more pictures in the Media Browser, and then choose File > Print.
         

2 In the Prints dialog, choose a printer from the Select Printer menu. Your choice
         of paper size will determine which layout options are ­available for your picture
         package; for the purposes of this exercise, choose Letter from the Select Paper Size
         menu.
      


 Tip
         
You can also open the Prints dialog in picture package mode from the Create tab. Click
            Photo Prints, and then click the Picture Package button. If you cancel a print job
            that was launched from the Create menu, you'll also need to click Cancel in the Taskbar
            below the Create panel.
         


3 Choose Picture Package from the Select Type of Print menu. If a Printing Warning
         dialog appears, cautioning against enlarging pictures, click OK; for this exercise,
         you'll print multiple images at smaller sizes.
      
4 Choose a layout from the Select a Layout menu, and then select the option Fill Page
         with First Photo. This will result in a page with a single photo repeated at a variety
         of sizes, according to the layout you've chosen. If you selected more than one photo
         in the Media Browser, a separate Print Package page will be generated for each photo
         selected; you can see the print preview for each page by clicking the page navigation
         buttons below the preview pane.
      
The layout options available for a Picture Package depend on the paper size specified
         in the Prints dialog, the page setup, and the printer preferences. To change the paper
         size, choose from the Select Paper Size menu, or click either the Page Setup button
         at the lower left of the Prints dialog or the Change Settings button under Printer
         Settings. Depending on your printer, you may need to look for the paper size options
         in the Advanced preferences settings.
      
5 Try some of the options in the Select a Frame menu. We selected the Icicles border
         to suit the winter holiday theme of our selection. You can choose only one frame per
         picture package; it will be applied to every picture in the layout.
      
6 Toggle the Crop to Fit option, and assess the result; the Crop to Fit option may
         fit the multiple images more closely to the layout to better fill the printable area,
         especially when your photo is of nonstandard proportions.
      


 Note
         
The images in a Picture Package layout are automatically oriented to make the best
            use of the print-able paper area for the layout you have chosen. You can't manually
            rotate the image cells (or photo holders) in a picture package layout; however, you can still zoom or rotate each image within
            its print well using the zoom slider and orientation buttons below the preview. Drag
            any image in the picture package to adjust its position within its print well.
         




7 Click the Add button () below the thumbnail menu at the left. In the Add Media dialog, you can choose from
         your entire catalog or from those photos currently visible in the Media Browser. More
         sources can be accessed by expanding the Advanced options. Choose one or more photos
         from any of these sets, and then click Done; the selected images are added to the
         print job and now appear in the thumbnails column in the Prints dialog.
      
8 Drag the thumbnail of one of your newly acquired photos from the thumbnails column
         onto any image cell in the print preview; the original image is replaced.
      
9 Click Print or Cancel, and skip ahead to the exercise "Printing individual photos."
      

Printing a Picture Package on macOS
         
1 If necessary, switch to the Organizer by clicking the Organizer button () in the Taskbar, leaving the Editor window open. Select two or more photos in the
            Media Browser; then, click the Editor button () in the Taskbar. If necessary, click Expert in the mode picker to switch the Editor
            to Expert mode.
         



 Tip
         
You can open the Picture Package dialog from the Create tab. Click Photo Prints, and
            then click the Picture Package button. If you do this from the Organizer, you'll see
            a message asking if you'd like to open the Editor to initiate printing.
         


2 In the Photo Bin, click whichever photo you'd like to print first to make it the
         active (foremost) image; then, Choose File > Picture Package.
      
3 In the Picture Package dialog, under Document, make a selection from the Page Size
         menu and the Layout menu, and then click the Edit Layout button below the Layout preview.
      
4 In the Picture Package Edit Layout dialog, click to select an image in the Edit Layout
         preview, and then click the Delete Zone button in the Image Zones area at the left.
         Select another image in the preview, and drag it to a new position on the page preview.
         Drag the handles on the image's bounding box to scale it or to change its orientation.
      

5 Right-click an image in the Edit Layout preview and try out some of the menu choices;
         then experiment with the other settings and buttons in the Image Zones options. Click
         Cancel, and then click No to avoid overwriting the default settings for the layout
         preset you selected.
      


 Tip
         
If you cancel a print job that was launched from the Create menu, you'll also need
            to click Cancel in the Taskbar below the Create panel.
         


6 Click OK in the Picture Package dialog, and then wait while Photoshop Elements creates
         a new document and places the images for your Picture Package. If you wish to see
         the Picture Package printed, choose File > Print; otherwise choose File > Close All,
         and then click Don't Save.
      

Printing individual photos
         
The Photoshop Elements Prints / Print dialog presents all your printing options in
            one convenient place, and also enables you to fine-tune the placement of each image
            within its own photo holder (its frame in the print preview). You can zoom or rotate an image with the controls
            beneath the preview and drag to reposition it, so you can get the image placed just
            right for printing without first editing it.
         

1 In the Organizer, Ctrl-click / Command-click to select eight or more images.
      
2 Choose File > Print. Alternatively, click the Create tab, click Photo Prints, and
         then click the Local Printer button. On macOS, click Yes to continue to the Editor,
         where printing will be initiated.
      


 Note
         
On macOS, the options in the Print dialog differ from those illustrated here. For
            more detailed information on printing on macOS, please refer to Photoshop Elements
            Help, and search other online resources in Community Help.
         


3 In the Prints / Print dialog, select a printer, paper size, and print size from the
         menus at the right. On Windows, choose Individual Prints from the Select Type of Print
         menu. If you see a print-resolution alert, click OK to dismiss it.
      

4 Experiment with the controls below the Print preview. Click to select an image in
         the preview, and zoom in and out inside the image cell using the zoom slider. Use
         the Rotate Left and Rotate Right buttons beside the zoom slider to change the orientation
         of the image within its print well. Drag the selected image to reposition it within
         the frame. Toggle the Crop to Fit option below the Select Print Size menu, and observe
         the effect in the print preview.
      
5 Select any image thumbnail in the menu column on the left side of the dialog, and
         click the Remove button ().
      


 Tip
         
You can add images to the selection to be printed only if they are part of the currently
            active catalog.
         




 Note
         
On macOS, many (not all) of the Advanced source options are visible by default in
            the Add Media / Add Photos dialog.
         


6 Click the Add button () below the thumbnails menu. In the Add Media / Add Photos dialog, select an image
         source; you can choose from your entire catalog, or from those photos currently visible
         in the Media Browser. Choose one or more photos from any of these sets, and then click
         Add Selected Media / Add Selected Photos. The selected images are added to the thumbnails
         column in the Prints / Print dialog, and the Add Media / Add Photos dialog remains
         open. Expand the Advanced source options, and choose a different source. Select one
         or more photos; then, click Done to add the photos to your print job and dismiss the
         dialog.
      

If you've selected more pictures than will fit on one page at the image dimensions
         you specified, Photoshop Elements automatically generates extra pages.
      
7 Check the page count below the print preview. If your print job has more than one
         page, preview the other pages by clicking the arrow buttons at either side of the
         page count.
      
8 Click the More Options button at the bottom of the dialog, and explore the settings
         available in the More Options dialog. In the Printing Choices section, you can choose
         to print text details with your images, add image borders or a background color, flip
         the image for iron-on transfers, and print crop marks to help you trim your images.
         The More Options dialog also offers Custom Print Size and Color Management settings.
         Click Cancel to close the dialog.
      
9 In the Prints / Print dialog, click Print if you wish to see these images printed;
         otherwise, click Cancel to save your ink and paper for your own prints. On Mac OS,
         choose File > Close All.
      

Sharing pictures
         
In this section, we'll look at a variety of ways to share your pictures with friends,
            family, clients, or the world at large.
         


Sharing photos by email
Perhaps the most basic way to share a photo is by attaching it to an email. The Organizer's
            email function makes it easy, automatically optimizing your images ­specifically for
            sending via email.
         




 Note
         
The first time you access this feature, you may be presented with the Email section
            of the Organizer's preferences. Choose your email client (such as Outlook Express
            or Adobe E-mail Service, Mail, or Microsoft Entourage) from the menu, and then click
            OK. You can review or change your settings later by choosing the Email pane in the
            Preferences dialog.
         


1 In the Media Browser, select a photo to attach to an email. Click the Share tab;
         then click the Email button.
      
2 Drag another image from the Media Browser to the Email Attachments pane to add it
         to the selection to be emailed.
      
3 Choose one of the smaller size options from the Maximum Photo Size menu, and then
         adjust the image quality using the Quality slider. The higher the quality setting,
         the larger the file size will be—and therefore, the longer the download time. The
         estimated file size is displayed for your reference at the bottom of the Email Attachments
         panel. Click Next.
      
At this stage, you could generate your email without specifying recipients in Photoshop
         Elements, but for the purposes of this exercise we'll make a start on setting up an
         email contacts list. Populating your Photoshop Elements address book can save time,
         especially if you often email photo attachments to the same people.
      
4 Click the Edit Recipients in Contact Book button () to create a new listing. In the Contact Book dialog, click New Contact.
      

5 In the New Contact dialog, type in the personal details and email address of the
         person to whom you wish to email the pictures. Click OK to close the New Contact dialog,
         and then inspect the other options in the Contact Book dialog.
      
The New Group button lets you arrange your contacts in groups, so that with just one
         click, you can email your favorite vacation shots to all your family and friends,
         or send a photo-update to all of your colleagues. On Windows, the Contact Book dialog
         also enables you to import your Outlook Express or vCard contacts list.
      


 Note
         
The Import and Export options illustrated are available on Windows only.




6 Click OK to close the Contact Book dialog. In the Select Recipients box, make sure
         that there is a checkmark beside each contact that you wish to receive your emailed
         photos. In the Subject field, swipe over the placeholder text to select it; then type
         a new subject line for your email. Repeat the process in the Message field if you
         wish to include a text message with your photos.
      
7 Click the Next button in the Taskbar. Photoshop Elements automatically launches your
         default email application and opens a new message, complete with the images that you
         selected earlier, addressed to all of your intended recipients. You can edit the subject
         line and text message as you wish. When you're done, click Send if you wish to go
         ahead and send this example email, or close the message without saving or sending
         it.
      

Sharing photos and videos online
From within Photoshop Elements, you can upload your photos, videos, and presentations
            directly to social networking or photo- and video-sharing websites by choosing from
            the Share tab menu in either the Organizer or the Editor. You can also use these services
            to download media.
         

On the Share tab in both modules, you'll find integrated links to Facebook, Flickr,
         and Twitter. In the Organizer, the Share tab also offers buttons for posting video
         clips directly to Vimeo and YouTube.
      
Depending on whether you already have an account with the service you wish to use,
         you may first need to sign up. Some services, such as Flickr, Twitter, and Facebook,
         will ask you to authorize Photoshop Elements to connect to your online account.
      
Although the procedure for logging in and sharing may differ slightly for each of
         these services, the process is essentially similar, and you'll be guided step by step.
      

Sharing to Facebook
         
As an example, we'll take a look at the integrated link to Facebook, which has been
            revamped for Photoshop Elements 2018, making sharing your photos easier than ever—whether
            you're working in the Organizer or the Editor.
         

1 Use any of the import methods you've learned in this book to import two or more of
         your own photos that you wish to share on Facebook. Select all of the newly imported
         images in the Media Browser.
      
2 From the Share tab at the upper right, choose the Facebook sharing service. On the
         Facebook login screen, enter your credentials and click Log In.
      
3 On the Share On Facebook screen, use the menus below the title bar to choose whether
         you wish to share the selected photos on your timeline or add them to an album, to
         set the image quality, and to specify who can see your post. At the lower left are
         buttons for tagging friends and adding a location.
      

4 Click Share, and then click Done to dismiss the Share On Facebook screen.
      

Exporting copies of your photos for the web
You can use the Save For Web dialog box to preview the effects of different optimization
            options; you can choose from a range of file formats for your exported files, resize
            them, specify color and compression options, and enable transparency or background
            matting. Use an export preset as a starting point, and then tweak the settings to
            fine-tune the optimization.
         

In this exercise you'll optimize and export a copy in JPEG format, which reduces the
         file size and looks good in the majority of web browsers.
      
1 In the Organizer, click the All Media button (, All Media) if it's visible in the actions bar above the thumbnail grid. Select any
         photo in the Media Browser, and then click the Editor button () in the Taskbar.
      
2 In the Editor, choose File > Save For Web. In the Save For Web dialog box, choose
         Fit On Screen from the Zoom menu, just above the Preview button in the lower left
         corner of the dialog box.
      


 Tip
         
While you're previewing photos in the Save for Web dialog, you can magnify the view
            with the Zoom tool () in the toolbox at the upper left of the dialog. To zoom out, hold the Alt / Option
            key and click the image with the Zoom tool. While you're zoomed in, you can drag in
            either window with the Hand tool (); the images pan in unison so that both views show the same part of the photo.
         



3 Watch the change in the file-size information displayed below the export preview
         on the right as you choose JPEG Medium from the Preset menu at the upper right of
         the dialog.
      

4 Select the JPEG low preset; the file size is reduced even further. Tweak the Quality
         setting to set a level between the two presets; the default values for the JPEG Low
         and JPEG Medium settings are 10 and 30, respectively.
      
5 Under New Size, type 500 in the Width field. The Height is adjusted automatically to retain the image's original
         proportions. Once again, notice the change in the file size displayed beneath the
         optimized export preview. Choose Fit on Screen from the Zoom menu to compare the reduced
         image to the original.
      


 Note
         
The JPEG format reduces the file size using compression, which discards some of the
            image data. The amount of information lost, and the resulting image quality, will
            vary depending on the photo you're working with and the quality settings.
         


6 Click the Preview button in the lower-left corner of the Save for Web dialog to see
         the image displayed in your default browser at the current export settings. Scroll
         down the browser page, if necessary, to see a summary of the optimization settings
         that were applied. Return to Photoshop Elements.
      
7 Click Save. Add the extension _Work to the original, and save the file to your My CIB Work folder. In the Editor, choose
         File > Close, without saving changes.
      

Backing up your catalog and media files
         
The importance of a good backup strategy is often only understood too late. You can't
            prevent a disaster from happening, but you can reduce the risk of loss—and the time and effort needed for recovery—by backing up
            regularly.
         


Backing up the catalog file
The catalog file stores not only the locations of your image files, but the metadata
            attached to them, including titles, captions, tags, ratings, and album groupings.
            One technique to protect this information is to save as much as possible back to your
            original image files. This process serves as a partial distributed backup of the catalog.
         

1 In the Organizer, click the All Media button ( All Media) if it's visible. Press Ctrl+A / Command+A to select all of the media files in your
         catalog; then, choose File > Save Metadata to Files. Click OK to dismiss any notification.
      
Next, you'll make a full backup of your catalog and all the associated media files.
2 Choose File > Backup Catalog. Make sure that Full Backup is selected in the Backup
         Options; then, click Next. Select a destination drive, and then click the Browse button
         beside Backup Path to specify a destination folder. When you have chosen a destination
         folder, click New Folder and name the new folder CIB Backup [current date]; then, click Create. Click OK, and then click Save Backup. Photoshop Elements will
         notify you when the backup is complete; click OK to dismiss the message.
      

Doing incremental backups
An incremental backup saves you time by replacing only the catalog entries and images
            that have been modified since the last backup.
         

1 In the Media Browser, add ratings to several unrated photos by clicking the rating
         stars below the thumbnails. This will serve as the incremental change to the catalog
         since your full backup.
      
2 Choose File > Backup Catalog. This time, select Incremental Backup in the Backup
         Options; then, click Next.
      
3 Select the same destination drive, and then click the Browse button beside Backup
         Path to specify the same destination folder. When you have selected the destination
         folder, click New Folder and type CIB Backup Incremental [current date]. Click Create; then, click OK.
      
4 Click the Browse button beside Previous Backup File. Navigate to the folder containing
         your full backup, and select the file Backup.tly. Click Open, and then click Save
         Backup. Click OK to dismiss the completion message.
      
Should you ever need to restore a damaged catalog file or start afresh after a hard
         disk failure, simply choose File > Restore Catalog, and locate your backup files.
      


Review questions
1 What is a Contact Sheet?
            


2 What is a Picture Package?
      
3 How can you fine-tune the composition of a photo for printing?
      
4 How do you access and manage your Photoshop Elements email contacts list?
      
5 Is the Save for Web command available only in Expert mode?
      
6 What is an incremental backup?
      


Review answers
1 A Contact Sheet is an effective and economical way to print-preview a selection of
               images at thumbnail size, arranged in a grid layout on a single sheet of paper.
            


2 A Picture Package lets you print a photo repeated at a choice of sizes on the same
         page. You can choose from a variety of layout options, with a range of image sizes,
         to customize your picture package print.
      
3 You can fine-tune the placement of each image within its own photo holder frame in the print preview, enabling you to get the image placed just right for printing
         without first editing it. Zoom or rotate an image with the controls beneath the print
         preview, and drag to reposition it in the frame.
      
4 After dragging images from the Media Browser to the Email Attachments pane, click
         Next; then, click the Edit Recipients in Contact Book button () to open the Contact Book dialog where you can add, group, edit, and delete contacts.
      
5 The Save for Web command is available from the File menu in all three edit modes:
         Expert, Quick edit, and Guided edit.
      
6 An incremental backup copies only those images and catalog entries that have changed
         since the last full backup.
      







Index
A
Add Layer Mask button, 216, 274
Add Media dialog box, 297
Adjust Color For Skin Tone dialog box, 142
adjust lighting, 178
adjustment layers, 169, 183
applying to a limited area, 170
Adobe Photo Downloader
advanced options, 40
Adobe Photoshop Elements
Installing, 2
Adobe Photoshop Lightroom
new features, 1
Adobe TV, 5
albums, 77
adding photos to, 78
creating in People, Places and Events views, 79
Artwork library, 250
Auto Color, 110
Auto Contrast, 110
Auto Curate, 93
Auto Fill command, 256
auto-fixing, 110
Auto Levels, 110
automatically fixing red eyes, 39
automatic correction, 137
Auto Selection tool, 147
Auto Smart Tone, 119
B
backgrounds, 256
backing up the catalog file, 302
backups, 302
incremental, 302
Balance panel, 107
Basic tab, 126
batch processing, 110, 136, 164
Before & After view, 111
Blacks adjustment, 129
Blacks slider, 131
blemishes, removing, 217
blending images, 241
blending modes, 167, 176
Multiply, 177
Normal, 201
Overlay, 177
Screen, 168
Blur filter, 244
Blur tool, 203
border
adding to photos, 190
quick, 193
brightness, 129, 179
Brightness/Contrast dialog box, 178
Brush Picker, 275
brush size, 150
C
      
calibration, 160
Camera Raw window, 126
canvas
working with, 190
Canvas Size dialog box, 191
card reader, 39
cast (color), removing, 128
catalog, 8
about, 4
backing up, 302
creating, 9
reconnecting missing files, 19
Catalog Manager dialog box, 9
Clarity, 129
Clarity slider, 131
Clean Edges dialog box, 222
clipping, 105, 105-106, 129
clipping warning, 130-131
color balance, assessing, 107
color cast
removing, 128, 136-142
Color Cast Eyedropper tool, 142
color correction, 136
automatic, 138
correcting skin tones, 141
Guided, 116
color management, 159
Allow Me To Choose setting, 160
Always Optimize For Computer Screens setting, 160
Always Optimize For Printing setting, 160
No Color Management setting, 160
setting up, 160
color printing, 159
Color Replacement tool, 154, 156
Color Settings dialog box, 160
Color Swatches picker, 192
combining multiple images, 234
Commit button, 258, 273
comparing, 140
composites, 226
composition
improving, 186
Contact Book dialog box, 298, 303
contact sheets
printing on Mac OS, 292
printing on Windows, 290
Content-Aware healing, 204
Content-Aware Move tool, 197
contrast, 112, 129, 179
correcting images, 170
Create mode, 253
Create panel, 15
Create Warped Text button, 282
crop overlay
Rule Of Thirds, 189
Crop To Fit option, 294
Crop tool, 189
Custom Workspace
Expert mode, 200
D
      
Darken Highlights slider, 178
defringing selections, 242
Diffuse Glow filter, 216
DNG, 132
Double Exposure effect, 211
drag-and-drop, 32
E
Editor, 8-12, 29, 301
workspace, 20, 21
Edit pane, 21
effects
adding in Quick edit, 113
layering, 215
Effects Collage, 210
Effects panel, 23
Ellipse tool, 281
Elliptical Marquee tool, 161
e-mail, 298
E-mail Attachments button, 298
enhance, 179
Enhance menu, 133
Events
adding photos to, 60
adding tags in Media view, 59
creating from the Media Browser, 59
grouping photos as, 59
smart Events, 61
Events view, 59
Expand selection, 279
Expert edit mode, 21
exporting, 300
photobooks, 269
export preview, 301
exposure
adjusting for RAW images, 129
adjusting in Guided Edit, 166
adjusting in Quick Edit, 165
adjusting using blend modes, 167
correcting using adjustment layers, 169
problems, 162
F
Facebook
importing contacts, 53
sharing to, 299
faded image, fixing, 176
fading, 177
Favorites panel, 252
Fill Page With First Photo option, 293
Filter Gallery, 213-215
finding duplicates, 96
finding files
by object search, 96
by visual similarity, 95
using details and metadata, 94
Fit Frame To Photo command, 259
fixing color, 137
Flickr
sharing to, 299
floating document windows
enabling, 22
Folders list, 13
Folders to Watch list, 36
frames, 258
adding in Quick edit, 113
adjusting photos inside, 260
Full Sceen View
reviewing photos in, 16
G
      
getting photos, 10
Graphics library, 250
Graphics panel, 23
gray level, 180
Guided edit
color correction, 116
Guided Edit, 22
creative projects, 207
editing in, 115
H
Hand tool, 127
Healing Brush tool, 201, 202
Help
using, 26
highlights, 104
Highlights slider, 131
histogram
about, 102
color channel, 108
History Panel, 202
Horizontal Type Mask tool, 283
Horizontal Type tool, 192
settings, 266
Hue slider, 117
I
importing files
from a camera or card reader, 39
from files and folders, 10, 39
using drag and drop, 32
using watched folder, 36
Importing files
in bulk, 37
incremental backups, 302
Input Levels box, 180
Instant Fix
button, 74, 100
intensity, 174
International Color Consortium (ICC), 160
J
JPEG format, 301
K
keyword tags
about, 67
creating and applying, 70
finding faces, 43
importing, 33
organizing, 68
L
layer masks, 172, 216, 240, 274
layers
arranging, 239
copying, 168
locking, 146
masking, 223
Layers button, 265
Layers panel, 172
Layers Panel Options dialog box, 172
layer styles, 262
Layout button, menu, 23
Layouts panel, 255
levels, 104
adjusting, 179
Levels dialog box, 104, 169
Lighten Shadows slider, 178
lighting, 169
Lighting panel, 178
Line Drawing effect, 210
locking layers, 146
M
Magic Wand tool, 149, 161, 243, 244
managed folders, 13
masks
layers, 274
type, 283
Media Browser, 12
merged images, 225
metadata
finding files using, 94
Midtone Contrast slider, 178
midtones, 104
Minimize button, 19
missing files
missing file icon, 20
reconnecting, 19
monitor calibration, 160
More button, 23
Move tool, 239
moving objects, 197
My Folders view, 13
N
Navigator panel, 202, 203
neutral tones, 109
New Effect layer button, 215
new features, 1
New Layer button, 200, 213
O
opacity, 177
Opacity slider, 177
Open Closed Eyes, 121
optimizing photos
for Web, 300
Organizer, 8-11, 29
editing photos in, 100
workspaces, 12
Out Of Bounds
guided edit, 207
overexposed images
correcting, 176
overlay, 177
P
Pages panel, 254
re-ordering pages, 264
Painterly effect, 210
Panel Bin, 23
customizing, 25
panorama, 220
People Recognition
about, 43
setting up, 43
People view, 47
tagging, 49
working with groups, 52
Pet Eye option, 144
Photo Bin, 22
photo books, 253
adding graphics, 265
changing image order, 255
exporting, 269
Photo Book setup dialog box, 254
photo downloader
Advanced dialog box, 40
Standard dialog box, 39
Photomerge Compose tool, 247
Photomerge Exposure tool, 235
merging exposures automatically, 237
merging exposures manually, 235
Photomerge Faces tool, 247
Photomerge Group Shot tool, 226
Photomerge Panorama tool, 220
Photomerge Scene Cleaner tool, 230
Photoshop.com
creating account, 4
Photoshop (PSD) format, 176
Picture Packages
printing on Mac OS, 295
printing on Windows, 293
Places
adding photos to, 55
adding tags in Media View, 55
Places view, 55
Place tags, adding, 54
Position Photo In Frame command, 260
prerequisites, 2
previewing, 179
printing, 290
color, 159
contact sheets on Mac OS, 292
contact sheets on Windows, 290
individual photos, 296
Picture Packages on Mac OS, 295
Picture Packages on Windows, 293
using online services, 298
Print Photos dialog box, 293
Print Preview, 297
fine-tuning composition before printing, 296
Process Multiple Files dialog box, 110, 136
profile, 159, 160
Q
Quick Edit mode, 21
Quick Edit panel, 16, 17
Quick Fix
using for editing, 111
Quick Organize panel, 16, 17
Quick Selection tool, 150, 170, 213
R
ratings, assigning, 66
raw images
adjusting, 125
Recompose tool, 194-197
Mark For Protection brush, 194
Mark For Removal brush, 195
Reconnect Missing Files dialog box, 19
Rectangular Marquee tool, 161
red eye
fixing automatically, 143
fixing during import, 34
reducing file size, 298
Refine Edge dialog box, 171
Refine Selection Brush, 153
renaming files, 110
Replace Background project, 244
Replace Color dialog box, 154
resizing photos
for print, 118
for Web, 118
resolution, 296
RGB, 160
Rule Of Thirds
crop overlay, 189
S
sampled source, 201
saturation, 129
Saturation slider, 117
Save For Web dialog box, 301
Scene Cleaner tool, 230
Screen, 168
searching files
by metadata, 94
for duplicates, 96
in Events view, 87
in People view, 82
in Places view, 85
saving searches, 94
search results bar, 12
Select A Frame menu, 294
Selecting fine detail, 153
Selection Brush tool, 149
selections
defringing, 242
editing through, 152
inverse, 151
loading, 148
making, 147, 170
refining, 171, 214
saving, 148, 151
Select Printer menu, 293
shadow and highlight, 111, 177
shadows, 104
Shadows/Highlights dialog box, 177, 178
Share panel, 15, 298
Sharing photos on Revel, 300
sharpening, 110
Side By Side View, 17
single photo view, 15
size and quality, 298
skin tones, 139, 141
slide shows, 270
Smart Brush tool, 122
Smart Events, 61
sorting photos
by event, 59
by location, 54
Spot Healing Brush tool, 203
spots, removing, 200
stacks
combining, 77
creating, 75
creating automatically, 75
Straighten tool, 186
vertical reference, 188
Style Settings dialog box, 263
T
tagging faces
adding undetected faces, 46
in the Media Browser, 44
in the People view, 49, 52
Task Bar, 14
Temperature
adjusting, 108, 128
text
      
alignment options, 192
centering, 192, 280, 284
creating type mask, 283
setting up, 266
style presets, 281
Text On Custom Path tool, 282
Text On Selection tool, 279
Text On Shape tool, 280
textures, adding in Quick edit, 113
Texturizer filter, 215
Threshold control
Recompose tool, 194
Timeline
using to refine a search, 90
Tint
adjusting, 108, 128
tonal balance, 102, 164
tone controls, 129
Tool Options button, 23
Tool Options pane, 23
transparent, 240
Trouble-shooting, 146
Twitter, 299
Type Mask tool, 283
U
underexposed images
brightening, 165
correcting with blending modes, 174
undo history, 202
V
Version Set, 35
Version sets, 73
Vibrance, 129
Vimeo
sharing to, 299
Visually Similar Photo Search dialog box, 75
W
warped text, 282
watched folders, 36
Watercolor Effect, 277
Watercolor filter, 214
Web browsers, 300
Web, exporting photos for, 300
white balance, 129
adjusting, 109, 127
presets, 127
Whiten Teeth tool,, 145
workspaces
Editor, 20, 21
Organizer, 12
wrinkles and spots removal, 200
Y
YouTube
sharing to, 299







Production Notes
      
The Adobe Photoshop Elements 2018 Classroom in a Book was created electronically using Adobe InDesign CC. Art was produced using Adobe InDesign,
         Adobe Illustrator, and Adobe Photoshop.
      
Team credits
The following individuals contributed to the development of this edition of the Adobe
         Photoshop Elements  2018 Classroom in a Book:
      
Project coordinators, technical writers: John Evans & Katrin Straub
Production: Manneken Pis Productions (www.manneken.be)
      
Copyediting & Proofreading: John Evans & Katrin Straub
Keystroker: Megan Ahearn
Special thanks to Torsten Buck, Tracey Croom, Nancy Davis, Barbara Kruszyńska, Petra
         Laux, Berenice Seitz, Philipp Meyer, and Kelly Willis
      
Typefaces used
Adobe Myriad Pro and Adobe Warnock Pro are used throughout the lessons. For more information
         about OpenType and Adobe fonts, visit www.adobe.com/products/type/opentype.html.
      
Photo Credits
Photographic images and illustrations supplied by Han Buck, Torsten Buck, John Evans,
         Katrin Straub, and Adobe Systems Incorporated. Photos are for use only with the lessons
         in the book.
      







Contributors

John Evans has worked in computer graphics and design for more than 30 years, initially as a
         graphic designer, and then as a multimedia author, software interface designer, and
         technical writer. His multimedia and digital illustration work associated with Japanese
         type attracted an award from Apple Computer Australia. His other projects range from
         music education software for children to interface design for innovative font design
         software. As a technical writer his work includes software design specifications,
         user manuals, and copyediting for Adobe Photoshop Elements 7 Classroom in a Book, Adobe Photoshop Lightroom 2 Classroom in a Book, and Adobe Creative Suite 4 Classroom in a Book. More recently he has authored several editions of Adobe Photoshop Lightroom Classroom in a Book and Adobe Photoshop Elements Classroom in a Book.
      

Katrin Straub is an artist, a graphic designer, and author. Her award-winning print, painting,
         and multimedia work has been exhibited worldwide. With more than 15 years experience
         in design, Katrin has worked as Design Director for companies such as Landor Associates
         and Fontworks in the United States, Hong Kong, and Japan. Her work includes packaging,
         promotional campaigns, multimedia, website design, and internationally recognized
         corporate and retail identities. She holds degrees from the FH Augsburg, ISIA Urbino,
         and The New School University in New York. Katrin has authored many books, from the
         Adobe Creative Suite Idea Kit to Classroom in a Book titles for Adobe Photoshop Lightroom 2, Adobe Creative Suite
         4, Adobe Soundbooth, and several versions of Adobe Photoshop Elements Classroom in a Book and Adobe Premiere Elements Classroom in a Book.
      



