




Antennas and Propagation
    for Body-Centric
    Wireless Communications
Second Edition









For a listing of recent titles in the
Artech House Antenna and Propagation Series,
    turn to the back of this book.









Antennas and Propagation
    for Body-Centric
    Wireless Communications
Second Edition
Peter S. Hall
Yang Hao
Editors












Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
A catalog record for this book is available from the U.S. Library of Congress.

British Library Cataloguing in Publication Data
A catalog record for this book is available from the British Library.


ISBN-13: 978-1-60807-376-4

Cover design by Vicki Kane

© 2012 Artech House
685 Canton Street
Norwood MA 02062


All rights reserved. Printed and bound in the United States of America. No part of this book may be reproduced or utilized in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, or by any information storage and retrieval system, without permission in writing from the publisher.
All terms mentioned in this book that are known to be trademarks or service marks have been appropriately capitalized. Artech House cannot attest to the accuracy of this information. Use of a term in this book should not be regarded as affecting the validity of any trademark or service mark.

10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1









 
Contents

Foreword
Preface
CHAPTER 1
Introduction to Body-Centric Wireless Communications
1.1 What are Body-Centric Communications Systems?
1.1.1 Off- to On-Body Communications
1.1.2 On-Body Communications
1.1.3 Medical Implants and Sensor Networks
1.2 Overview of Systems
1.2.1 Narrowband Systems
1.2.2Wideband Systems
1.3 Overview of Applications
1.4 New Trends and Progress Since the First Edition
1.4.1 Propagation Characterization and Control
1.4.2 Measurement Methods
1.4.3 Antenna De-embedding
1.4.4 Materials
1.4.5 Modeling of Body Dynamics
1.4.6 Standardization
1.5 Layout of the Book
References
CHAPTER 2
Electromagnetic Properties and Modeling of the Human Body
2.1 Electromagnetic Characteristics of Human Tissues
2.2 Physical Body Phantoms
2.2.1 Liquid Phantoms
2.2.2 Semisolid (Gel) Phantoms
2.2.3 Solid (Dry) Phantoms
2.2.4 Examples of Physical Phantoms
2.3 Numerical Phantoms
2.3.1 Theoretical Phantoms
2.3.2 Voxel Phantoms
2.4 Numerical Modeling Techniques for Antennas and Propogation
2.4.1 Introduction of Numerical Techniques for Body-Centric Wireless Communications
2.4.2 On-Body Radio Channel Modeling
2.5 Modeling of Dynamic Body Effects
2.5.1 Methodology
2.5.2 Measurements and Model Validation
References
CHAPTER 3
Antenna Design and Channel Characterization for On-Body Communications at Microwave Frequencies
3.1 Introduction
3.2 Measurement Methods
3.2.1 Connection Between Antenna and Measuring Instruments
3.2.2 Antenna De-embedding
3.3 Body-Centric Channel Measurement and Modeling
3.3.1 Path Gain
3.3.2 Channel Statistics
3.3.3 Channel Polarization Effects
3.4 Antenna Design
3.4.1 Performance Comparison
3.4.2 Antenna-to-Surface Wave Coupling
3.4.3 Antenna Match and Efficiency
3.5 Multiple Antenna Systems
3.5.1 Antenna Diversity
3.5.2 MIMO
3.5.3 Interference Cancellation
3.6 Systems Modeling
3.7 Conclusions
References
CHAPTER 4
Wearable Devices Using the Human Body as a Transmission Channel
4.1 Introduction of Communications Using Circuits in Direct Contact with the Human Body
4.2 Numerical Analysis of Communication Devices Using Low Frequencies
4.2.1 Whole Body Models
4.2.2 Arm Models Wearing the Transmitter
4.2.3 Effective Electrode Structure
4.3 Experiments Using Human Phantoms
4.3.1 Model for Assessments
4.3.2 Electric Field Distributions In and Around the Arm
4.3.3 Received Signal Voltage of the Receiver
4.4 Investigation of the Dominant Signal Transmission Path
4.4.1 Calculation Model
4.4.2 Electric Field Distributions and Received Signal Voltages
4.5 Conclusions
References
CHAPTER 5
Ultrawideband Technology for Body-Centric Wireless Communications
5.1 Overview
5.2 UWB Antennas for Body-Centric Wireless Communication
5.2.1 Design and Analysis
5.2.2 Measurements
5.2.3 Concluding Remarks
5.3 Channel Simulation and Measurement Methodology
5.3.1 Simulation of the Radio Propagation in Body-Centric Communication Scenarios
5.3.2 Measurement of the Radio Propagation in Body-Centric Communication Scenarios
5.3.3 Concluding Remarks
5.4 Channel Characterization and Modeling
5.4.1 General Aspects
5.4.2 Personal Area Network Scenarios
5.4.3 Body Area Network Scenarios
5.4.4 UWB Multiband-OFDM Based System Modeling and Performance Evaluation for Body-Centric Wireless Communications
5.6 Concluding Remarks
References
CHAPTER 6
Wearable Antennas: Advances in the Design, Characterization, and Application
6.1 Introduction
6.2 Review of the Literature
6.2.1 Antenna Types
6.2.2 Body Placement, Bending, and Crumpling
6.2.3 Fabric Material Properties and Antenna Manufacture Methods
6.3 Wearable Antennas: Critical Design Issues
6.4 Textile Materials
6.5 Effects of Substrate Materials: An Example of Fabric GPS Antenna
6.5.1 Effects of Ground Plane Size Attached to the Fabric Substrate on GPS Antenna Performance
6.6 Effect on Various Conductive Materials of Patch Antennas: An Example of WLAN Antenna on Fleece Fabric
6.7 Dual Frequency Wearable Antenna Design: An Example of a U-Slot Patch
6.8 Wearable Electromagnetic Bang Gap Antenna (WEBGA): An Example of WLAN Antenna
6.8.1 Remarks on Antenna Bending
6.9 Wearable Antennas Near the Human Body: An Example of a WLAN Antenna
6.9.1 Models and Methods
6.9.2 Results
6.10 Wearable Antenna Environmental Performance Issues
6.10.1 The Effect of Ice, Water, and Snow on Wearable Antenna Performance
6.10.2 Example of Environmental Test During an Iridium Phone Call
6.10.3 Destructive Antenna Tests
6.11 Conclusions
Acknowledgments
References
CHAPTER 7
Body-Sensor Networks for Space and Military Applications
7.1 Introduction
7.2 Biosensor System and Basics of Biomedical RF Telemetry
7.2.1 Implantable Pressure Sensor
7.2.2 Integrated Inductor/Antenna
7.2.3 External Pick-Up Antenna
7.3 Antenna Design for Body Sensors
7.3.1 Implantable Antennas
7.3.2 Antennas for External Handheld Devices
7.4 Space, Military, and Civilian Applications
7.4.1 Sensors for Space Environment
7.4.2 Battlefield Sensors
7.4.3 Sensors in Hospitals and Smart Homes
References
CHAPTER 8
Antennas and Propagation for Telemedicine and Telecare: On-Body Systems
8.1 Telemedicine and Telecare Applications
8.1.1 Physiological Signals for Patient Monitoring
8.1.2 Technologies for Ward-Based Systems
8.1.3 Technologies for Home-Based and Full Mobility Systems
8.1.4 Emerging Technologies and Novel Applications
8.1.5 Wireless Telemedicine Link Design
8.2 Antennas and Human Body Interaction in Personal Telemedicine
8.2.1 Antenna-Body Effects (< 1 GHz)
8.2.2 Antenna-Body Effects (> 1 GHz)
8.2.3 Emerging Antennas
8.3 System Design Issues
8.3.1 Channel Effects
8.3.2 Radio Frequency Interference and Inter-BAN Interference
8.4 Conclusion
References
CHAPTER 9
Medical Implant Communication Systems
9.1 Introduction
9.1.1 Inductive Coupling
9.1.2 MICS Standard
9.1.3 The 2.4-GHz ISM Band
9.2 Antennas in Lossy Dispersive Medium
9.2.1 Matter
9.2.2 Material Data and Measurements
9.2.3 Phantoms
9.2.4 Skin Depth
9.2.5 Wave Propagation: One-Dimensional FDTD Simulations
9.2.6 Influence of Patient
9.2.7 Phantom Influence on Antenna
9.3 Low-Profile Antennas for Implantable Medical Devices
9.3.1 What Is the Antenna?
9.3.2 Antenna Efficiency Calculations in Matter
9.3.3 Electric vs. Magnetic Antennas
9.3.4 Implantable Antennas Designs
9.3.5 Dependence on Insulation Thickness
9.3.6 SAR
9.4 Conclusion
References
CHAPTER 10
Conclusions

About the Authors

Index










 
Foreword

The potential value to society of body-centric wireless communications is being increasingly recognized. They are important for supporting a population with increasing life expectancy, and they give improved survival to those with chronic illness. They also have use in promoting safe independent living, limiting complications, and expediting safe discharge after surgery. Additionally, they also have a use for general well-being, sports, and public safety applications, such as firefighters. All of these require ubiquitous and pervasive monitoring of biological indices. Such devices need to be miniaturized, low cost, and easy to use. Yet they also are technologically sophisticated and include context aware and autonomic sensing, while being suitable for continuous long-term use even in harsh environments.
A body-centric wireless network contains a number of important technologies, ranging from novel biosensor design, biocompatible materials, and power harvesting, to low-power communications, integrated circuits, and systems. Among these, it is wireless communication that frees the network from the tyranny of wired connection and helps to make it more discrete and user-oriented. Miniaturization is an important element in allowing the integration of wireless data-paths into sensor nodes. Sensors are required to be small, and the communication transceiver circuits and antennas need to be miniaturized in order to facilitate sensor node realization or to be integrated into smart fabrics for improved comfort and user compliance. For both wearable and implantable devices, accurate modeling of induced electromagnetic fields and propagation in or around the body is a prerequisite to the design of power-efficient communication pathways, given the stringent power constraint of these devices.
This book is focused on low-power wireless communication and antenna design for body sensor networks. It provides researchers, designers, and developers with an up-to-date theoretical foundation and practical considerations, as well as exemplar implementations of the technologies for real-life applications. It is an important reference for those already working in the field and, I am sure, will also convince those who are considering entering this fascinating and rewarding topic of research and development.
I congratulate the editors and contributors on bringing this timely second edition together, and I am sure it will be as successful as the first one.
Guang-Zhong Yang, PhD, FREng
London, May 2012










 
Preface

The first edition of this book, published in 2006, came at a time when the topic of antennas and propagation for body-centric wireless communications was being viewed as novel, full of significant challenges, and responding to serious societal needs, particularly to those of monitoring those who are at risk and the elderly through wireless body sensor networks. In parallel with developments in antennas and propagation, the wider areas of networks, sensors, and applications saw explosive growth. New conference series were being established in these areas, and within the antennas and propagation community, the topic began to be covered by keynote addresses and special sessions. Since then, the topic has developed in several ways. There is more understanding of the basic action of channels on and into the body, and in how to design antennas for working close to or inside of the body. Now, in many antennas and propagation conferences, body-centric sessions are well-established, and around the world both research groups and industrialists are entering the field.
The response to the first edition from our colleagues was gratifying, as we always felt that body-centric communications was an area that would both unify various existing strands and offer new challenges for understanding, design, simulation, and measurement techniques. For example, while the simulation of channel variations for moving bodies can, in principle, be solved with very large computer resources, researchers are being taxed to devise new simulation methodologies, or even more of a challenge, new analytical solutions, for electromagnetic fields in the vicinity of arbitrarily shaped in homogenous and moving objects.
Since 2006, researchers have taken up some of these challenges, and there is much new material to discuss in this second edition. While the structure of this edition is the same, many of the chapters have been thoroughly updated or have been expanded to include new data and topics; the introduction fully itemizes the new material. However, this is a work in progress. As new applications appear, companies design new systems that are effective, efficient, and user-centered. Underpinning this continuing exploitation is a deeper knowledge of the behavior of electromagnetic fields, around and into the body, and of how to convert this into improved design, simulation tools and measurement processes. We hope that readers will learn much from this new edition and will be stirred to contribute to this activity.
In this new edition, the team of contributors has grown! We thank all of them for their hard work in meeting the short deadlines and thus making our task of bringing it together easier. In particular, we would like to thank our editor, Manika Power of Artech House, for her encouragement and patience.
Peter Hall and Yang Hao
May 2012









CHAPTER 1
Introduction to Body-Centric Wireless Communications

Peter S. Hall and Yang Hao
1.1 What are Body-Centric Communications Systems?
The ever-growing miniaturization of electronic devices, combined with recent developments in wearable computer technology, is leading to the creation of a wide range of devices that can be carried by their user in a pocket or otherwise attached to their body [1-3]. This can be seen as a continuation of a trend spearheaded by the mobile phone, which has become smaller and more convenient for personalized operation over the last few decades. Alongside this trend, there have been a number of body-centric communication systems for specialized occupations, such as paramedics and fire fighters, as well as continuing interest for military personnel. The development of the mobile phone can be characterized from the user perspective by three phases. The first equipment was large and heavy, and was used only by those people whose job required it. Then, the business community saw it as a way of improving business operations. Finally, the mobile phone became popular with the general population, who used it for social and entertainment purposes, and, more recently, as a fashion accessory. It is quite possible that body area networks (BANs) will follow the same path. Figure 1.1 shows a wearable computer, an early form of BAN, developed at the University of Birmingham [4], as a test bed for a wide range of studies into hardware and software architectures, and user applications. It is obviously bulky and inconvenient to use and has wired interconnections. However, further miniaturization has taken place; as a result, it was clearly desirable to remove the wired interconnections. It is also likely that power will be provided at each body unit and that data transfer will use high capacity wireless communications [5]. Other current uses of such systems include warehouse operators and garage mechanics. Figure 1.2 shows wearable computers as a fashion accessory.


Figure 1.1 University of Birmingham wearable computer (a) headset with video display, microphone, and earpiece and (b) miniaturized PC.



Figure 1.2 Wearable computer as a fashion accessory.

Body-worn equipment is also used for health monitoring [6]. Figure 1.3 shows a smart wireless electrocardiography (ECG) patch [7]. It is a hybrid system, combining electronic assembly on a flexible substrate with textile integration. The wireless ECG patch measures a bipoloar ECG signal between two electrodes separated by a distance varying for 3 to 4 cm. The ultralow-power consumption of the ASIC allows it to maintain the overall power consumption of the system relatively low (around 2 mA). The patch transmits to a local base station and is an example of an off-body channel, as explained in Section 1.1.1. When both ends of the wireless link are on the body, the term on-body channel is used, as explained in Section 1.1.2. Figure 1.4 shows an example. The Medtronic MiniMed Paradigm REAL-Time Revel System [8] has a glucose sensor integrated with a wireless communications link at one position on the stomach of the patient and a glucose pump system at another for real-time diabetes control. The wireless transmitter sends information from the glucose sensor to the glucose monitor for readings every 5 minutes, 24 hours a day. Users specify the amount of insulin they want the pump to deliver based on the readings and their meals.


Figure 1.3 Smart wireless ECG patch. (Image courtesy of IMEC.)



Figure 1.4 Medtronic MiniMed Paradigm REAL-Time Revel System. (Courtesy Medtronic.)

Medical implants for monitoring, diagnosis, and activity have been studied for some time. The opportunities created by nanotechnology and microtechnology now open up the possibility of much more widespread use and application. In addition to sensors and drug delivery mechanisms, communication is a vital part of this implementation process, for monitoring of internal body conditions and for signalling actions to be taken by the implant. These implants might also be used in conjunction with a body area network, as shown in Figure 1.5 [9]. Optimum design of such BANs and implants means that a full understanding of antennas and propagation into and through the body is needed.


Figure 1.5 Wearable medical support network.

Body-centric communication takes its place firmly within the sphere of personal area networks (PANs) and (BANs). The content of a BAN or PAN contains a range of communications needs and requirements. These can be classified as:


Off-body: because the channel is off of the body and in the surrounding space, only one antenna in the communications link is on the body. This is referred to as the off-body domain.


On-body: most of the channel is on the surface of the body and both antennas will be on the body. This is called the on-body domain.


In-body: a significant part of the channel is inside the body and implanted transceivers are used. This is called the in-body domain.


The italics show our shorthand nomenclature that we use in overviewing the book in Section 1.5. This nomenclature implies a partitioning of the PAN and BAN space into three areas. The first is where most of the channel is off the body and in the surrounding space, and where only one antenna in the communications link is on the body, which we call the off-body domain. The second is where most of the channel is on the surface of the body, and both antennas will be on the body, called the on-body domain. The last is where a significant part of the channel is inside the body and implanted transceivers are used, and we call this the in-body domian. While this is not a perfect subdivision, it does serve to highlight some of the different challenges for antennas and propagation in the body-centric system.
1.1.1 Off- to On-Body Communications
Communications from localized base stations, or broadcast stations, to transceivers located on the body have been studied extensively [10-12]. In the mobile phone area, such investigations include studies of the propagation characteristics of urban and rural environments. and the performance of body worn antennas in the face of variations of body proximity and orientation. There are many publications on this topic, and we have included little of it in this book, except that which relates to the use of ultrawideband techniques in Chapter 5. However, we have noticed that the topic of fabric-based antennas (covered in Chapter 6) is now gaining prominence, as fabric-based antennas can significantly increase the performance of body-worn equipment in communications to local base stations. Such antennas need to orient the radiation pattern away from the body while simultaneously providing all around coverage. In addition, it is important to screen the antenna from the body in order to prevent the losses in the tissue from degrading the antenna efficiency. This can be achieved by using larger ground planes than are possible in miniaturized equipment. The challenges for fabric-based antennas are to maintain good performance in the face of changes in the body posture and to be unobtrusive.
1.1.2 On-Body Communications
There are now many examples of wearable computers in general use today, some of which still incorporate wired interconnections. This is undesirable, due to reliability issues surrounding constantly flexing cables and connectors, the weight of such cables, and the general inconvenience to the user. A number of other connection methods have been proposed for this purpose, including smart textiles and communication by the currents in the user's body. Each of these methods has its own advantages and drawbacks. Among the drawbacks of the smart clothes, for example, is the need for a special garment to be worn, which may conflict with the user's personal preferences. Similarly, body current communication is limited because it has a relatively low capacity. For real-time video transfer around the body, very high data rates are required.
Wireless radio connectivity is an obvious option for connecting body-worn devices. Several standards for wireless connections between small, closely spaced devices have been developed, including Bluetooth, BodyLAN, and Zigbee. These types of connection can provide high levels of flexibility and comfort to the user, and therefore have received a lot of attention. There are three primary criteria for wireless modules for on-body communications. Firstly, they must support the high data rates expected in the future. Secondly, they must be small and lightweight. Both of these suggest the use of high frequencies. Thirdly, they must consume minimum power, which implies highly efficient links. In terms of antennas and propagation, efficient design requires a good understanding of the properties of the propagation channel involved and the development of optimized antennas.
1.1.3 Medical Implants and Sensor Networks
In recent years, several exciting developments, such as submicron electronics, nanotechnology and microelectromechanical systems (MEMS), have emerged, which will have a profound impact on medicine. These technologies will allow the construction of intelligent microscopic implantable sensors, mobile robots, and drug release devices, which will perform in vivo diagnostic and therapeutic intervention. Such devices offer great potential to improve the quality of life for many patients; there are now a number of conditions where implants are used to improve patient lifestyle, such as pacemakers [13] and cochlea implants [14]. There are also significant future aspirations, such the projects within the EC Integrated Project, Healthy Aims, [15] which include pressure sensing in the brain cavity, glaucoma sensor, and retinal implants. Other future aims are the lab-on-a-chip for internal diagnosis or automatic drug delivery [16] and interfacing to nerve endings for communications to the brain [17]. As an example of the significance of such developments, current contact with consultants in the local hospital of the editors of this book indicates that there are patients with severe spinal injuries who are fully aware but unable to communicate because they have no muscular control. Implanted sensors connected to the spinal cord, or even the brain, could give them back the ability to communicate. This would have an immeasurable impact upon the quality of life for these patients.
There are, however, many problems that must be overcome if this implant technology is to be widely exploited and used commercially. There is now much work to develop new sensor technology, much of which is being enabled by nanosystem and microsystem research [15, 16]. There is less work being done on other important aspects of the implant system, namely communications. This will have a crucial effect on the practicability of future implant systems, where the potentially very small size of the sensor needs to be matched by miniaturization in the communication technology. Electromagnetics is one of the enabling technologies that has to be applied within the framework of communications networks and user needs. There is also the concept of a hierarchy of implants, as shown in Figure 1.6, applied to the head, where the higher levels, some of which may be outside or on the body, have high intelligence. Because of this, high communication rates are needed, while those at the lower levels become smaller and have less communication requirements. The subdermal sensors could read body data, as well as being relays to the single, or group, neuron (or other body data) sensors which are ideally at the submicron scale. At this size, sensor noise, be it electrical or mechanical, will limit performance. The larger implants may be active—that is to say, with internal power sources—and the smaller ones may be passive; in either case, communications are important. Sensors are now becoming available for all levels. The feasibility of providing communications will be limited both by the fundamentals of electromagnetics and the antenna and transceiver technology needed to implement it.


Figure 1.6 Communications to medical implants.

1.2 Overview of Systems
1.2.1 Narrowband Systems
The definition of narrowband or wideband systems for body-centric wireless communications is not straightforward. Here, we differentiate between the two by their operational bandwidth only. Narrowband systems have been dealt with in most of chapters in this book (Chapters 3-5, 7-9), and represent current market trends in body-centric wireless communications. Such systems use a wide selection of frequency bands, as shown in Table 1.1.


UHF/VHF bands: pacemakers and implantable RFID (Chapter 9) use the inductive link with carrier frequencies between 9 to 315 KHz, with a data rate of up to 512 kb/s. The range of communication is, in practice, constrained to "touch" range, and hence limits its usefulness. The problem can be slightly alleviated by using a higher frequency (~10 MHz) and further separation between the transmitter and receiver. Chapter 4 proposes a waveguide transmission channel based on surface waves propagating along the human body. The communication system uses the near field region of the electromagnetic wave generated by the devices, which is eventually coupled to the human body via electrodes. An average of 20 dB attenuation for each electric and magnetic field component is reported at a distance of 10 cm away from the signal electrode. This value is comparable to the ones presented in Chapter 3 in the case of on-body link when the channel is static.


Implant and telemetry bands: The Medical Implant Communication System (MICS) band is 402-405 MHz [18], and the Wireless Medical Telemetry Services (WMTS) [19] operates on various bands between 420 and 1430 MHz. Chapters 7 and 9 present wireless communications for medical implants and swallowable sensors, which have distinct nature of channel behavior. First of all, electric and magnetic fields experience high attenuation inside the human body due to increasing conductivity of human tissue with frequencies of interest. Secondly, channel properties cannot be experimentally characterized easily and can only be determined by numerical modeling. Furthermore, while most current studies examine in-to-out body channels, in-body channel characteristics are useful when the link is locally established among various implants in the same patient. Figure 1.7 shows comparison of electric field at MICS and ISM (868 MHz and 2.45 GHz) bands in a cut plane along human stomach, clearly demonstrating the lossy behavior of human tissues at different frequency bands. Since communication links are usually needed between the implants and body worn sensors, Chapters 7 and 9 also address important channel characteristics from in-body to on-body, and even off-body. Chapters 8 and 9 discuss various antenna types for implantable devices and Chapter 8 specifically demonstrates practical antenna miniaturization techniques for body sensors.


ISM, Bluetooth, and WLAN: on-body propagation measurement, models and simulations are presented and discussed extensively in Chapters 3, 6, and 7. It is noted that the antenna properties will be modified due to the presence of the human body. In addition, communication nodes on the body are often in the near radiation field region; therefore, on-body radio behavior is strongly influenced by antenna types. Chapter 6 discusses various wearable textile antennas for space exploitation and military applications. Examples for mobile phones, GPS, and WLAN applications are presented together with antenna performance enhancement technique using EBGs. One of distinct features for the on-body radio channel is its variability in path loss and delay profile due to antenna placement and posture changes. The comparison between the standing and sitting body activities has shown that the location of the transmitter should be chosen wisely, as its orientation can be altered by posture change. This may adversely affect the signal strength for receivers on the back. In most cases, statistical analysis of the measured on-body radio channels regarding path loss and deviation can be fitted to known distributions. The dependency of system performance on the applied data rate has been demonstrated and it was learned that an acceptable BER can be achieved for power levels as low as -40 dBm for low data rates mainly used in health monitoring applications.



Table 1.1 A Summary of Available Technologies in Body-Centric Wireless Communications


Figure 1.7 E-field inside the body in horizontal axis of a human model with full stomach.

1.2.2 Wideband Systems
The wideband body-centric wireless communication system referred to in Chapter 5 is associated with UWB regulations issued by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) in April 2002. Under Part 15 of the Commissions rules, the FCC permits ultrawideband intentional emissions, subject to certain frequencies and power limitations that will mitigate interference risk to those sharing the same spectrum [20]. The wideband body-centric wireless communication system can directly deploy UWB signals between 3.1 and 10.6 GHz at power levels up to -41 dBm/MHz, with higher degree of attenuation required for the out-of-band region. The bandwidth of such systems can also be defined as more than 25% of a center frequency or more than 1.5 GHz. Clearly, this bandwidth is much greater than the bandwidth used by any current technology for communication. The large bandwidth of UWB signals provides robustness to jamming and has low probability of detection properties. UWB devices usually require low transmit power due to control over duty cycle, thus allowing longer battery life of handheld equipment. In addition to its high data rate and short-range features (which makes UWB a suitable candidate for the wireless body-centric network), the low power level increases the compatibility of this technology with current exiting wireless systems.
For narrowband body-centric wireless systems, comparison of the results taken in the anechoic chamber to those in the laboratory shows a noticeable increase in signal variability outside the anechoic chamber due to multipath fading. Outside the chamber, the propagation channel is not stable, even when the body is still; this instability is caused by other people moving about the room. Preliminary frequency-domain measurements indicate that UWB on-body, like its narrowband counterpart, suffers significant radio link variation due to different body postures. However, it is noted that the human body attenuates the UWB signal more seriously, so at non-LOS situation, received signal level becomes very low. The results also indicate that the dominant propagation channel for UWB on-body network is still the free space path, although it depends on the antenna types used.
1.3 Overview of Applications
Body-centric wireless communications are aimed at providing systems with constant availability, reconfigurability, and unobtrusiveness. High levels of processing and complex network protocols are needed to provide the powerful computational functionalities required for advanced applications. These requirements have led to increasing research and development activities with the main interests being healthcare, patient monitoring, personal identification, navigation, personal multimedia entertainment, and task-specific/fully compatible wireless wearable computers. Body-centric wireless communications can be applied to many fields and a summary of their applications can be found in Table 1.2. Some of them include:


Medical applications: smart diagnosis, treatment, drug delivery system, patient monitoring, and aging care;


Wireless access/identification systems: wireless transactions and identification of individual peripheral devices;


Navigation support and location based services: tourism, security, and intelligent transportation system;


Personal multimedia entertainment: wireless DVD and wearable computing;


Military and space applications: smart suits, battlefield personnel care and intelligence, and biosensors for astronaut monitoring.



Table 1.2 A Summary of Potential Applications in Body-Centric Wireless Communications
1.4 New Trends and Progress Since the First Edition
The previous sections sought to present taxonomies for body-centric channels and frequencies, which may help highlight the possibilities and challenges in each. This book, as a whole, attempts to address all of these areas, but also includes the additional dimensions of the ever-widening area of applications, with the emphasis on medical, personal, and special uses (such as space).
Since 2006, when the first edition of this book was published, there have been some noticeable trends in the topic. While the content of different chapters in this book show varying degrees of maturity and remaining issues to be addressed, we have identified some topics which have changed our perspectives or directions, or which represent significant difficulties that required further intense study. A brief description of these is now given, followed by a section describing the contents of each chapter.
1.4.1 Propagation Characterization and Control
There is now much data worldwide characterizing channels around the human body, and this is discussed in various places throughout this book. Different frequencies, antennas, channels, and size and shaped bodies have been studied. In general, frequencies above 10 GHz remain an uncharted area; however, there is now increasing interest in both understanding the various propagation modes that can exist on the body and in trying to control them by using materials covering the body for wave guidance. The principles of radio wave propagation on lossy bodies have been the subject of intense study for many decades; it is still controversial, and this spirit is now being seen in the various names for energy propagation modes around the body. As noted above, it is interesting to see that wave guidance, or trapping, on the human body is being investigated and that concepts, such as the smart vest [21], are emerging.
1.4.2 Measurement Methods
There is now an increased interest in better methods for measuring the channel performance on the body. Cable-based methods have been widely adopted due to their low cost, flexibility, and simplicity, and have allowed the basic properties of channels to be established. However, there are improved methods, such as fiber optic and data logging modules. Much smaller components are now available, as shown in Chapter 3. While these are not problem-free, it is likely that there will be better acceptance of statistical models obtained this way.
1.4.3 Antenna De-embedding
System designers would like to separate antenna performance from channel behavior, so that antenna design is simplified and the other constraints that RF designers face (such as antenna size, weight, cost, bandwidth, and efficiency) can be dealt with more easily. There has been some acknowledgment among researchers that this is a desirable thing to do. However, some studies described in Chapter 3 show that we are still some way off from freeing the antenna designer from needing to test each new antenna in the channel which it is intended for. The challenges remain and, so far, there are only solutions for a limited number of cases.
1.4.4 Materials
While many antennas used in body-centric communications are produced using the pervasive manufacturing process of the printed circuit board, the use of alternative materials continues to progress. There is significant work on fabric based antennas, in terms of antenna design, but also in the materials themselves and in production techniques. Figure 1.8 shows a typical fabric-based wearable antenna. Frequently surprising developments have occurred, such as the "sticking plaster" antenna [22], in which usability seems to drive new concepts.


Figure 1.8 A fabric-based wearable antenna. (Courtesy of Jon Pinto, BAE Systems.)

1.4.5 Modeling of Body Dynamics
There is a significant problem in the world of simulation, due to the fact that onbody channel performance is greatly affected by body motion. This issue is, of course, present in other forms of communications, such as cellular phones and indoor WiFi systems, and seems to be getting increased attention. Several software providers offer whole body phantoms that can be moved into different postures. There is also a physical phantom with moving legs to mimic walking. Body scanners and motion capture equipment are now being used. Perhaps the most challenging area is the one of analysis, and workers are now considering canonical solutions for fields around moving objects. There is still much to do, and Chapter 2 gives some details of recent work.
1.4.6 Standardization
The IEEE 802.15 Task Group 6, which was formed in November 2007, is actively developing a standard for wireless body area networks [23]. The standard is targeted for relatively low data rate (100 kpbs to 1 Mbps) transmission to devices attached around the body (human or other) or implanted. Low-power medical and consumer applications will benefit from this development. Possible bands include the Medical Implant Communications Service band (MICS) at 402‐405 MHz, the Wireless Medical Telemetry Services (WMTS) band at various frequencies in different parts of the world between 420 and 1430 MHz, the 2.45 and 5.8 GHz Industrial, Medical and Scientific (ISM) bands, and the ultrawideband (UWB) from 3.1 to 10.6 GHz band. The proposed standard will include reference to applications, bands, data rates, physical layer details, and some of the MAC proposals.
1.5 Layout of the Book
The chapters and authors in this book have been selected to give overviews of work in the three areas of body-centric communications, as noted in Section 1.1. A guide to their content now follows, and can be read in conjunction with Figure 1.9, which shows the relationship of the chapters to each other and to the topic of personal and body area networks. The figure shows that Chapter 2, in addition to the Introduction and Summary, is relevant to all parts of body-centric systems. Only Chapters 3, 4, and 9 deal with specific domains, while all the rest relate to overlap areas between domains.
Chapter 2 discusses the electromagnetic properties of the body, including material properties. An overview of the various types of phantoms is then given. Chapter 2 also presents an introduction to numerical modeling techniques for antennas and methods for modeling moving bodies.
Chapter 3 gives an overview of on-body channels at microwave frequency bands and a brief review of applications of microwave on-body communications from current handset-headset communications to future applications, such as support for medical sensor networks and emergency personnel. It gives information about on-body channel measurements, channel characterization and modeling, antenna and system design, and link budget analysis.
Chapter 4 deals with on-body wireless communications at low frequency bands and gives an overview of on-body channel performance at these frequencies. Chapter 4 presents equivalent circuit models, numerical analysis, experiments using human phantoms, transmission mechanism, and overviews various applications.
Chapter 5 gives an overview of UWB as an enabling technology for body-centric communications. UWB antennas are discussed and analyzed. UWB channel measurement and simulation methodology, as well as channel characterization and modeling for PANs and BANs are presented.
Chapter 6 introduces wearable antennas for cellular and WLAN communications, and is aimed primarily at communications from on to off the body. Chapter 6 presents different antenna solutions for this communications methods and smart antenna fabrics.
Chapter 7 deals with body-sensor networks, including the basics of biomedical RF telemetry and biosensor systems. Antenna designs for body-sensors and different applications in military and space are also presented.
Chapter 8 gives an overview of antennas and propagation for telemedicine. Various telemedicine applications are presented, and some principles of numerical modeling of the human body for telemedicine together with system design principles are introduced.
Chapter 9 introduces antennas and propagation for wireless implants. Chapter 9 deals with RF biotelemetry and focuses especially on low-profile antennas for implantable medical devices and at antennas that can operate successfully in a lossy dispersive medium.
Chapter 10 gives an overview of this book, together with conclusions on the state of the art of body-centric wireless communications. Finally, some future challenges are presented.


Figure 1.9 Interaction of the book chapters.

References
[1] Baber, C., J. Knight, D. Haniff, and L. Cooper, "Ergonomics of Wearable Computers," Mobile Networks and Applications, 4, 1999, pp. 15-21.
[2] Shivers, O., "BodyTalk and the BodyNet: A Personal Information Infrastructure, Personal Information Architecture," Note 1, Cambridge, MA: MIT Laboratory for Computer Science, December 1993.
[3] Zimmerman, T., "Personal Area Networks: Near Field Intra-body Communications," IBM Systems Journal, Cambridge, MA: MIT Media Lab, Vol. 35, No. 3-4, 1996.
[4] Baber, C., T. N. Arvanitis, D. J. Haniff, and R. Buckley, "A Wearable Computer for Paramedics: Studies in Model-based, User-centred and Industrial Design," M. A. Sasse and C. Johnson (eds.), Interact'99, Amsterdam: IOS, 1998, pp. 126-132.
[5] Carvey, P. P, "Technology for Wireless Interconnection of Wearable Personal Electronic Accessories," IEEE Workshop on VLSI Signal Processing, IX, October 1996, pp. 13-22.
[6] Yang, G. Z, Body Sensor Networks, Springer, 2006.
[7] IMEC Human++: body area networks, www.imec.be/ScientificReport/SR2008/HTML/1225020.html.
[8] Medtronic: MiniMed Paradigm REAL-Time Revel System, http://www.medtronic.com/for-healthcare-professionals/
    products-therapies/diabetes/insulin-pumps-cgm/
    minimed-paradigm-real-time-revel-system/index.htm.
[9] Spratley, J. P. F., P. S. Hall, M. C. Ward, Y. Hao, and A. Alomainy, "Communications for In-body Microsensor Applications," International Workshop on Wearable and Implantable Body Area Networks, Cambridge, MA: Media Lab, MIT, April 2006.
[10] Famolari, D., and P. Agrawal, "Architecture and Performance of an Embedded IP Bluetooth Personal Area Network," 2000 IEEE International Conference on Personal Wireless Communications, December 2000, pp. 75-79.
[11] Stratis, G., C. A. Corral, S. Emami, S. Sibecas, G. Rasor, and R. Kipp, "Composite Antenna Pattern for Realistic Ray Tracing Simulations," IEEE Antennas and Propagation Society International Symposium, 2003.
[12] Schwendener, R., "Indoor Radio Channel Model for Protocol Evaluation of Wireless Personal Area Networks," The 13th IEEE International Symposium on Personal, Indoor and Mobile Radio Communications, 2002, Volume 2, September 2002, pp. 891-895.
[13] Perrins, J, "Types of Sensor for Rate Responsive Pacemakers," IEEE Colloq on International Cardiac Implants, January 1993.
[14] Loizou P. C., "Introduction to Cochlear Implants," IEEE Signal Processing Magazine, September 1998, pp. 101-130.
[15] www.healthyaims.org
[16] Figeys, D., "Lab-on-a-chip: A Revolution in Biological and Medical Sciences," Anal Chem, May 2000, 72(9):330A-335A.
[17] Sun, M., M. Mickle, W. Liang, Q. Liu, and R. J. Sclabassi, "Data Communication Between Brain Implants and Computer," IEEE Trans on Neural Systems and Rehabilitation,Vol. 11, No. 2, June 2003.
[18] FCC: The Medical Implant Communications Service (MICS), http://wireless.fcc.gov/services/personal/medicalimplant/.
[19] Falcon, C., "Wireless Medical Devices: Satisfying Radio Requirements," Medical Device and Diagnostic Industry, pp. 80, September 2004. URL: http://www.devicelink.com/mddi/archive/04/09/018.html, Oct. 15, 2004.
[20] FCC First Report and Order, Revision of the Part 15 Commission's Rules Regarding Ultra-Wideband Transmission Systems, ET-Docket 98-153, April 22, 2002.
[21] Bouwstra, S., L. Feijs, W. Chen, and S. B. Oetomo, "Smart Jacket Design for Neonatal Monitoring with Wearable Sensors," Sixth International Workshop on Wearable and Implantable Body Sensor Networks, June 2009. BSN 2009.
[22] Kellomaki, T., W. G. Whittow, J. Heikkinen, and L. Kettunen, "2.4 GHz Plaster Antennas for Health Monitoring," 3rd European Conference on Antennas and Propagation, 2009. EuCAP 2009. March 2009, pp. 211-215.
[23] IEEE 802.15 Working Group for WPAN, http://www.ieee802.org/15/.








CHAPTER 2
Electromagnetic Properties and Modeling of the Human Body

Yang Hao, Koichi Ito, and Peter S. Hall
Body-centric communications involve the interaction of electromagnetic waves with the body. In studying this interaction, it is important to understand the electromagnetic properties of body tissues. These properties vary significantly with tissue type and frequency. In order to enable the development of antennas and transceivers for such communications systems, modeling of the body is a necessary tool. The body can be modeled with physical phantoms, made from solid, liquid, or gel materials, or with numerical phantoms embedded in numerical electromagnetic codes. The tissue properties and modeling techniques are addressed in this chapter.
2.1 Electromagnetic Characteristics of Human Tissues
The dielectric properties of body tissues at radio frequencies and microwaves have been examined by several authors. One of the first extensive review and tabulations of previous results was made by Durney et al. in 1986 [1]. Other early reports summarized specific resistance of tissues [2] and tabulated the dielectric properties of tissues in the frequency range 10 kHz to 10 GHz [3]. A historical perspective was given in [4], which was extended including more recent data (to 1990) in [5].
A recent comprehensive study is described in [6]. One of the most difficult problems associated with the determination of tissue parameters is that of obtaining samples. It is not possible to make measurements on live tissue; this is because the measuring device needs to be in contact with the tissue. For this reason, most studies use dead tissue. In [6], excised animal tissue from freshly killed sheep and human autopsy materials were used. In addition, human skin and tongue in vivo was also measured. An open-ended coaxial probe technique [7] was used for all measurements. The animal tissue was measured within 2 hours of death, while the autopsy material were measured within 48 hours. Measurements were made over a frequency range of 10 Hz to 20 GHz. As the dielectric parameters vary significantly with frequency, a model based on the summation of 4-Cole-Cole expressions is used [6],


(2.1)

where ε∞ is the material permittivity at terahertz frequency; ε0 is the free space permittivity; σj is the ionic conductivity; and εm, τm, and αm are material parameters for each dispersion region.
Table 2.1 gives the various parameters needed to find ε(ω) from (2.1), at any frequency, for a range of body tissue types [8]. Table 2.2 shows conductivity, relative permittivity, loss tangent, and penetration depth for these tissues at a frequency of 2.5 GHz, derived using (2.1) and Table 2.1. This frequency is chosen to correspond to the measurement frequency used in Chapter 3 for on-body propagation channels and is close to that used in Chapters 5 and 6, which use low microwave frequencies. Other chapters use different frequencies. Chapter 4 uses 10 MHz and Chapter 8 uses a range of frequencies, including those around 400 MHz and 2.45 GHz. Chapter 9 examines use of 403.5 MHz and 2.45 GHz, and gives a useful comparison of some tissue properties at these two frequencies. There are significant differences in relative permittivity and conductivity across a wide frequency range, as is shown in Figure 2.1 for muscle and fat [6]. However, it can be seen that the variations in the range 100 MHz to around 1 GHz are relatively small. There are also variations in tissue properties with age [9].

Table 2.1 Parameters Needed to Find Body Tissue Dielectric Constant and Conductivity at Any Frequency

Table 2.2 Electromagnetic Properties of Human Body Tissue at 2.45 GHz


Figure 2.1 Electrical characteristics of tissues [8].

However, the penetration depth does change significantly across this frequency range as shown in Figure 2.2, derived from (2.1). At 100 MHz penetration depths are a significant and thus frequencies in this range is used for penetration into the body for communications to medical implants. As the frequency increases, the penetration depth reduces and at 2.45 GHz is 113 and 21 mm, respectively, for fat and muscle. Therefore, in general, penetration at these frequencies is small and propagation will be around the surface of the body.


Figure 2.2 Penetration depths for fat and muscle.

2.2 Physical Body Phantoms
A phantom can be defined as a simulated biological body or as a physical model simulating the characteristics of the biological tissues. The aim of such a phantom is to explore the interaction between the human tissue and the electromagnetic fields. For this purpose, phantoms have been used extensively in medical research on the effects of electromagnetic radiation on health as well as in development of various methods of medical diagnostic and treatment, such as X-ray, MRI scan, and hyperthermia.
With the proliferation of communication devices that will be used close to the human body, and especially with the advent of cellular phones, the phantoms became an essential tool for testing safety of such devices. Various safety guidelines, such as those by the International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection (ICNIRP) [10] and the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) [11], specify the acceptable levels of radiation in terms of specific absorption ratio (SAR) that can be measured using a number of methods involving phantoms.
Phantoms are also capable of being a valuable tool in the study of radiowave propagation around and inside the human body. Such studies are required in order to design powerful, robust, wearable communication devices with relatively low cost. The use of phantoms can provide a stable, controllable propagation environment that cannot be easily realized with human subjects.
In general, the phantoms can be classified from several different points of view. One classification criterion is the frequency range. Another criterion is the type of tissues that the phantom represents. There are two main types of tissue. The first is low-water content tissue, such as bones and fats, which feature low permittivity and low loss. The second is high-water content tissue such as brain, muscles, and skin, which have higher permittivity and loss. The most common classification, though, is that based on the final state of the phantom after the manufacturing process is completed, which can be either liquid, semisolid (gel), or solid (dry).
2.2.1 Liquid Phantoms
This type is the first and oldest of all the phantom types. It is a container filled with a liquid that has the same electrical characteristics as the tissues in the human body in the defined range of frequencies. Liquid phantoms are used extensively in SAR studies by direct measurement of the electric fields inside the phantom with a small probe. The phantoms used in this method have a thin shell, usually made of a fiberglass material with small relative permittivity and conductivity. As specified in [12], the relative permittivity of the phantom shell should be less than 5, the loss tangent less than 0.05, and the thickness of the shell should be 2.0 ± 0.2 mm for the frequencies in the range 0.8 to 3 GHz. The shell usually has a shape of a human head or a whole body, depending on the requirements of the application. In some cases, a flat rectangular prism shape is considered sufficient. The shell has to have a hole into which the measurement probe is inserted. The phantom is filled with a liquid that has the dielectric properties similar to those of a human body. Most recipes for the liquid contain either sugar at lower frequencies, or, at higher frequencies, diacetin or diethylene glycol butyl ether (DGBE) in different proportions to control permittivity of the solution, while salt (NaCl) is used to adjust conductivity [13].
This type of phantom allows for recording the detailed distribution of the fields inside the phantom. However, it does not allow measurement of SAR close to the surface of the body. In addition, the human body is not represented accurately, as the internal structure is replaced with a homogeneous medium. The latter problem is usually dealt with by choosing the dielectric properties of the phantom liquid such that it leads to the peak spatial-average SAR values which are no less than those produced by the real internal structure of the human body. For the studies of propagation around the body, this is less of an issue, as long as the losses in the body are large, and thus only a relatively thin external layer of the phantom has a significant effect on propagation. It also suffers from such disadvantages as the limited range of frequencies over which the liquid can have the required dielectric properties, the difficulty of handling the container in the test environment, and the container itself having electrical characteristics that should be taken into consideration. However, although liquid phantoms have these disadvantages, they still have the important advantage of being easy to fabricate.
2.2.2 Semisolid (Gel) Phantoms
In order to do away with the outer shell for the phantoms, a solidifying agent has been used to make materials of jelly-like consistency that are capable of self-shaping. Different recipes use "super stuff" (TX-151) [14] or agar [15] as the gelling agent, while polyethylene powder and sodium chloride are used to control the permittivity and conductivity of the material, respectively. Although this type of phantom is only suitable for simulating high-water content materials (such as muscle, brain, etc.) and has the problem of limited control of the electrical characteristic over a wide frequency range, it has the flexibility to be reshaped and is easy to produce. Some of the literature refers to this type as "solid wet" instead of "solid gel."
Another solid gel phantom material uses polyacrylamide as its main constituent. This type of material is capable of simulating both high- and low-water content materials, depending on the liquid solvent used in its fabrication. The material is transparent and can be used in the wide frequency range, up to 5.5 GHz.
All the gel phantom materials degrade over time due to losing water and/or fungi growth.
2.2.3 Solid (Dry) Phantoms
If the internal structure of the body has to be preserved in the phantom, or the SAR on the surface of the body has to be measured, the use of a solid phantom is a good option. A solid phantom is made of materials capable of keeping their shape for a period of time. The SAR measurements on such phantoms are performed by the method of thermography [16]. Before the measurement, the solid phantom has to be pre-cut along the plane in which the SAR is to be measured. Then, after the solid phantom is illuminated by a radio source, the precut parts are quickly separated and their surface temperature is measured by an infrared sensor. The SAR then is derived from the temperature rise. This type of the phantom is also best suited for the studies of the propagation around, as well as inside, the body, since it can accurately represent the inhomogeneous structure of the human body.
A number of recipes for solid phantoms have been proposed, including a mixture of ceramic and graphite powder [16], silicone rubber mixed with carbon fiber [17], and conductive plastic containing carbon black [18]. These phantoms have excellent mechanical and dielectric properties, which do not degrade over a long time because they do not contain water. The main disadvantage of ceramic and graphite phantoms results from the fact that solid phantoms need special and expensive equipment and special procedure in producing the composition, such as very high temperature (260°C) and high pressure. The other phantoms are easier to fabricate, but it can be difficult to produce large quantities of these materials because of their short curing times.
2.2.4 Examples of Physical Phantoms
In the measurement of the characteristics of antennas close to the human body, phantoms, such as head, abdomen, torso or whole-body phantoms, are usually used. In particular, the characteristics of antennas for cellular phones are very dependent on the shape and size of the phantoms [19, 20]. It is therefore necessary to use an optimized phantom to measure the characteristics of antennas. This section describes examples of such phantoms.
Ogawa et al. [19, 20] proposed a multipostural realistic human-torso phantom, which is composed of a shell filled with liquid, to evaluate characteristics of antennas. Figures 2.3(a) and 2.3(b) show two multipostural, realistic human-torso phantoms. The size of the phantom is based on the average values of a Japanese male in his twenties. The phantom can be applied to various situations, such as talking [see Figure 2.3(a)] or viewing [see Figure 2.3(b)]. The measured radiation characteristics of the antenna close to the phantom are almost equal to those of real human.


Figure 2.3 Multipostural realistic human-torso phantom: (a) talk position and (b) viewer position. (Courtesy of Dr. K. Ogawa, Matsushita Electric Industrial Co., Ltd., Japan.)

Hall et al. [21] used a whole-body human phantom, based on the 95th percentile of the anthropomorphic data collected by the US Army, to evaluate SAR inside the body. The phantom is sectional, with removable arms and legs, and has been built in two configurations, seated and standing. The seated version is intended specifically for the measurement inside vehicles.
Figure 2.4 shows a human-torso phantom of Japanese male, which is composed of an agar-based phantom [22, 23] to evaluate EM dosimetry, as well as the characteristics of antennas. This phantom, which is called the TX-151 phantom, can simulate the dielectric constants of high-water content tissues at 800 to 2400 MHz [22] and 3.8 to 5.8 GHz [23]. Other features of the phantom are summarized as follows:


Easy adjustment of dielectric constant;


Easy manufacturing to arbitrary shape and multiple layers [22];


No necessity to use a container or shell;


Cheap and easily obtained ingredients;


Preservative term about one month with wrapping.




Figure 2.4 Realistic human-torso phantom (agar-based solid phantom).

Table 2.3 shows an example of the composition of a UWB solid phantom [24]. Here, the dielectric constants are adjusted by the amount of polyethylene powder (relative permittivity) and the amount of sodium chloride (conductivity), respectively. The sodium dehydroacetate is a preservative, and the agar is a coagulant. Figure 2.5 shows an example of the dielectric constant of the UWB phantom against frequencies over the range from 2 to 10 GHz [24]. The dielectric constant of the phantom agrees with those of the target within 10% over the frequency range.

Table 2.3 Example of Composition of UWB Phantom [24]


Figure 2.5 Example of dielectric properties of UWB versus frequency [24].

Okano et al. [25] proposed the high-preservative phantom with a lifespan greater than six months, which is called a glycerin phantom. This phantom can simulate tissues with both high-water and low-water content. However, the useful frequency range of this phantom is narrower than that of the TX-151 phantom. Kobayashi et al. [15] developed a steady solid phantom, which is called the dry phantom. The dielectric properties of this type are not dependent on time. However, the manufacturing of this phantom is fairly difficult in most conventionally equipped laboratories. Figure 2.6 shows an example of a human-head dry phantom.


Figure 2.6 Example of dry phantom (Courtesy of Professor T. Nojima, Hokkaido University, Japan.)

Recently, unlike the dry phantom, lighter and flexible human body-shaped phantoms have been developed. As an example, Figure 2.7 shows the whole body "Rubber Phantom" [26]. The rubber phantom is made from silicone rubber and a conductive substance, such as carbon nanotube, is also mixed in to control electrical characteristics.


Figure 2.7 "Rubber Phantom" [26]. (Courtesy of Asahi Rubber, Inc.)

In order to investigate experimentally dynamic channel characterization, so-called "dynamic phantoms" have been studied which can simulate the walking or running actions of a human. Figure 2.8 shows an arm-waving dynamic phantom [27], which has unique features in that waving of the right and left arms and the direction and speed of waving can be controlled independently.


Figure 2.8 Arm-waving dynamic phantom [27]. (Courtesy of Professor K. Ogawa, Tokyo University, Japan.)

2.3 Numerical Phantoms
Many numerical phantoms for theoretical analysis and computational simulation have been reported. In theoretical analyses, simple-shaped phantoms are generally used. These types of phantoms are called theoretical phantoms. However, in order to calculate the characteristics of antennas close to the human body, it is necessary to use a more realistic numerical phantom, which is composed of many voxels. Therefore, such phantoms are called voxel phantoms. Sections 2.3.1 and 2.3.2 show examples of theoretical and voxel phantoms.
2.3.1 Theoretical Phantoms
Homogeneous, or layered flat phantoms [28], are the simplest theoretical phantoms and are used to evaluate EM dosimetry, in which energy is radiated from the simple sources, such as a plane wave, a half-wave dipole antenna, or a small dipole. Spherical models are mainly used for EM dosimetry inside the human head [25-28]. The spherical models are also used the dosimetry in the eyes. Cylindrical phantoms [29, 30] are used as a whole-body model.
These models can also be used for the confirmation of the validity of results using numerical simulation tools, such as the finite difference time domain (FDTD) method [31, 32] and method of moments (MoM) [34]. Other canonical models, such as a 2003 mm3 cube and 200 mm diameter sphere, have also been used [33].
2.3.2 Voxel Phantoms
Recently, progress in medical imaging technologies, such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and x-ray computed tomography (CT), and large increases in computer power have encouraged the development of precision head and whole-body voxel models.
Human-head models are usually used for the evaluation of EM dosimetry, as well as characteristics of antennas, when cellular phones are placed close to the head [34, 35]. In addition, the evaluation of SAR inside head models of children has been also proposed [36-38]. However, the internal structure of the child-head models based on the adult models can be significantly different from the head of a child [39].
Whole-body human voxel models have been proposed. Dimbylow [40] developed an anatomically realistic voxel model of an entire body to simulate the reference man (170 cm, 70 kg) described in ICRP 23 [41]. This model, which is based on MR images of an adult male, was named NORMAN (for "normalized man") and was segmented into 37 different types of tissues. The resolution of NORMAN is 2.04 × 2.04 × 1.95 mm3.
Mason et al. [42] proposed a very high spatial resolution whole-body human voxel model (voxel size = 1 mm3), classifying over 40 different types of tissues, based on photographic male data from the visible human project (VHP) dataset at the US National Library of Medicine [43]. Figure 2.9 shows the whole-body human voxel model [44]. The original data of the VHP was obtained from a 38-year-old male cadaver, 186 cm in height and 90 kg weight, while the voxel model weights 105 kg due to the process of modeling. This model is widely used for the numerical simulation throughout the world.


Figure 2.9 High spatial resolution whole-body human voxel mode3l [44].

Nagaoka et al. [45] developed high-resolution, whole-body Japanese human voxel models (voxel size = 23 mm3), classifying 51 different types of tissues, based on MR images of a male and a female that have almost the same body size (including height, weight, etc.) of the average Japanese human between the ages of 18 and 30. Figures 2.10(a) and (b) show the whole-body Japanese human voxel models. Here, the male volunteer (22 years old) was 172.8 cm tall and 65.0 kg in weight; the female volunteer (22 years old) was 160.0 cm tall and 53.0 kg in weight. In addition, the adult female model is the first of its kind in the world. Both models are the first Asian voxel models that enable numerical evaluation of electromagnetic dosimetry at higher frequencies up to 3 GHz.
Kainz et al. [46] developed the abdomen model of a pregnant woman. Here, the structure of the human fetus is based on MR images. In the near future, whole-body human child and pregnant female models will be developed by researchers.


Figure 2.10 High resolution whole-body Japanese human voxel models [45].: (a) Taro (male), and (b) Hanako (female). (Courtesy of Dr. T. Nagaoka, National Institute of Information and Communications Technology, Japan.)

2.4 Numerical Modeling Techniques for Antennas and Propogation
2.4.1 Introduction of Numerical Techniques for Body-Centric Wireless Communications
Past attempts at numerical modeling of human bodies were mainly in the area of calculating specific absorption rate (SAR) for cellular phones and shadowing effects for indoor wireless networks. However, numerical modeling for on-body antennas and radio propagation has distinct features, particularly at microwave frequencies. In this case, the human body is treated as a transmission medium which guides the surface wave and a reflector for space waves. Usually when more than two communication nodes are placed on the body or in close proximity to the body, changes in the polarizations and orientations of the antennas and the body postures significantly affect the radio propagation paths and cause large variations in path gain. Additionally, in on-body communication systems, the dimensions of the body are large compared to the wavelength. This allows some semianalytical approaches and the approximation of the body, such as a homogenous lossy dielectric, to be used. The following sections briefly outline several frequently used numerical modelling techniques that have been widely used to analyze electromagnetic problems, especially in the area of body-centric wireless communications.
2.4.1.1 The Uniform Geometrical Theory of Diffraction (UTD)
UTD and its earlier version, the geometrical theory of diffraction (GTD), are based on geometric optics (GO) and diffraction theory [47]. It assumes that all waves are local plane waves, so that "ray tracing" can be used. GTD/UTD requires that objects under study are electrically large, as is the case for the human body in Bluetooth and WLAN frequency bands.
Reflection and transmission (or penetration) is the basic phenomenon when the interactions between propagation waves and the surrounding environment occur. Both coefficients can be calculated by classic formulations, depending on the polarization of incidence. Wedge and corner diffractions are unique in methods like UTD. Diffraction is a form of scattering by objects whose size is of the same order of magnitude as the wavelength. Inclusion of various diffractions in UTD modeling is essential, otherwise abrupt changes in field strength may occur if the receiver moves from line-of-sight (LOS) to non-line-of-sight (NLOS) situations. There is also a kind of diffraction which is different from GO called "creeping waves." A ray incident tangential to a curved surface sets off a creeping ray which moves along a geodesic of the surface.
In [50], a hybrid uniform asymptotic theory of diffraction/finite-difference time-domain (UTD/FDTD) method was proposed to analyze human exposure in realistic urban environments for the Global System for Mobile communications (GSM) and the Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS) frequency bands. In [51], a practical deterministic propagation prediction model is introduced to investigate the human body-scattering effects in the indoor channel using UTD. In the model, the human body is approximated with a perfect conducting circular cylinder and then combined with the ray-tracing technique to deal with particular indoor propagation scenarios.
Recently, there have been increasing efforts in applying UTD techniques to characterize channel variation in on-body communications. Koutitas [52] proposed a ray solution for multiple closed surfaces that utilizes a modified slope UTD technique; it can be applied to model scattering, radiation, coupling effects, or a combination of the three in a single formulation. The solution considered all possible ray paths and was valid at the transition boundaries of the scenario. In [52], the human bodies were approximated as closed cylindrical surfaces with constitutive parameters based on the "muscle" model. The technique was validated by modeling on-body propagation around a single human subject at 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz respectively. Results were compared with those obtained by the method of moments (MoM) and on-body measurements. It was concluded that the proposed UTD algorithm required less CPU and computing time compared to full-wave techniques, and it was even more efficient when electrically large problems including body-to-access point (BAP) and body-to-body networks were investigated. Some GTD/UTD techniques have also been implemented into commercial EM solvers, such as RECOMs XGtd, which is capable to model important mechanisms that contribute to electromagnetic wave propagation around complex objects at high frequencies. Alipour et al. [53] applied the XGtd to study the 60-GHz propagation conditions associated with on-body communications, optimized for interconnecting various subsystems on a soldier. Simulation results were compared with those from the measurement where three different antennas (waveguide horn, slot, and patch) were placed on a human. The characterization of the channel is provided through path loss data and, in some cases, S-parameter data from each node at different receiver points on a soldier's body and gear.
In later sections, an extension of UTD to on-body radio propagation modelling at 2.4 GHz and UWB frequencies will be further discussed.
2.4.1.2 Ray-Tracing Techniques
Ray tracing (RT) techniques are popular for site-specific prediction of radio channel characteristics of wireless communication systems, such as cellular phone services, personal communication system (PCS), and wireless local area network(WLAN). RT provides time delay and angle of arrival (AoA) information for multipath reception conditions. It can be used to accurately determine received signal strength and power delay profile (PDP) in situations where the wavelength is small compared to propagation environment feature size and has been widely used to predict indoor radio propagation. There are two types of RT models. One is the image method, and the other is the method of shooting and bouncing rays (SBR) [54]. The image method is well-suited to the analysis of radio propagation associated with geometries of low complexity and having a small number of reflections. The SBR method launches a bundle of rays, which may or may not reach the receiver, and requires numerous ray-object intersection tests and extensive data arrays for RT. In the SBR method, both refraction and diffraction can be considered. Due to the complexity of the situations in on-body environment, only the SBR method is applied and introduced in later sections.
Villanese et al. [53] presented a novel model for indoor wireless communication based on a dual image and ray-shooting approach. The model, capable of improved site-specific indoor propagation prediction, considers multiple human bodies moving within the environment in a modern office at 2.45 GHz. In [54], a technique was proposed combining the RT method and the finite-difference time-domain (FDTD) method for the SAR calculation in human bodies that are nonuniformly exposed to the EM fields from indoor cellular base-station antennas.
The RT technique is often associated with other high frequency methods such as GTD/UTD. For example, in [54], radio propagation between the colocated BAN users was studied at 2.4 GHz and 60 GHz to understand cochannel inter-BAN interference. In the simulation, a single wireless node equipped with an isotropic antenna was positioned on the left chest of a human subject at a height of ~1.33m.
The antenna launched a number of rays over a selected spatial angle and an algorithm then tracks each of the rays until it illuminated the area of interest or until the power of the ray falls below a preselected threshold level. The simulator (Algorithm formed part of RPS software package available: http://www.actix.com/our-products/radioplan/index.html) was then applied to calculate all reflections, penetrations and diffractions for rays launched in 0.1° steps spherically in all directions from each transmitting antenna [56].
2.4.1.3 Method of Moments
MoM is a technique for solving complex integral equations by reducing them to a system of simpler linear equations. It employs the "weighted residuals" technique introduced by Harrington [34]. The fundamental operation in this technique is to set up a set of trial solution functions with one or more variable parameters. The residuals are a measure of the difference between the trial solution and the true solution. The variable parameters are determined in a manner that guarantees a best fit of the trial functions based on a minimization of the residuals. MoM, which can be used in both time and frequency domains, is most suitable in the analysis of thin-wire structures.
However, the technique is not effective when applied to arbitrary configurations with complex geometries or inhomogeneous dielectrics. In on-body applications, Chen et al. [55-58] presented an extensive computer simulation of the influence of the human body on a circular-loop-wire antenna to simulate the pager antenna. The coupled integral equations (CIE) approach and MoM are employed for numerical simulation of this antenna-body-coupling problem. The magnetic frill source is used to model the antenna-feeding structure. A realistically shaped, full-scale, human-body model (1.7 m) is constructed. A small loop antenna (loop radius b = 1.7 cm and wire radius a = 0.072 cm) of x, y, and z orientation, in free space or proximate to the human body at the top pocket (chest position) or belt level (waist position), is considered at 152, 280, and 400 MHz for radio paging communications. A hybrid finite-element method (FEM)/MoM technique was employed in [59] for SAR calculations in a human phantom in the near field of a typical GSM base-station antenna. MoM is used to model the metallic surfaces and wires of the base-station antenna, and FEM is used to model the heterogeneous human phantom. The advantages of each of these frequency domain techniques are exploited, leading to a highly efficient and robust numerical method for addressing this type of bio-electromagnetic problem.
Recently, Keshmiri and Craeye [60] proposed a Green's function approach to analyze on-body antennas and radio channels based on MoM. Specifically, the human body was approximated as a cylindrical medium with lossy materials and its Green's function could be obtained by solving the Helmholtz wave equation and satisfying required boundary conditions. A test case was performed on the modeling of a dipole antenna placed in close proximity to a human subject. This was done by numerically integrating the conducting current with the derived Green's function over the length of dipole. In [60], the implemented Green's function of a cylindrical body was exploited in a full-wave antenna analysis with an integral equation approach. A very good agreement had been obtained between the radiated fields provided by the analytical/MoM model and CST Microwave Studio™ simulations, including interference effects attributed to creeping waves as shown in Figure 2.11 [61].


Figure 2.11 A comparison of electric field distribution around the body from the dipole normal to the body: MoM vs. CST simulation [61].

2.4.1.4 Finite Element Method
FEM is usually formulated on a variational expression, which has a rigorous mathematical formulation in terms of convergence [62]. The basic idea of the FEM is to divide the electromagnetic structures into a number of elements, which can be of rectangular and triangular shape. The field within each element is expanded in terms of a set of basis polynomials, weighted by the field values at the nodes of the element. Then, the expanded field is substituted into the functional for the Maxwell's equations and the variation of the functional is set to zero. A matrix eigenvalue equation is derived, with the field values at the element nodes as the unknowns, and the solution allows the eigenvalues and eigenvectors to be determined.
FEM is well suited to modeling electromagnetic structures with curved boundaries, which can be represented using triangular and isoparametric elements. A major disadvantage of FEM is that the matrix solution is quite time consuming even if the sparse matrix technique is employed. As a result, the computational complexity turns out to be the highest among all the available approaches.
FEM has been applied mostly at low MHz frequencies for medical applications due to computer memory constraints. In [63], a FEM-based model was adopted for calculating eddy current effects in the human body using magnetic resonance techniques in modern medical diagnosis. The frequency of the linearly polarized RF-field was 64 MHz. All the organs considered in the models included skin, fat, bone, muscle, marrow, spinal cord, liver, kidney, bladder, bowels, and connective tissue. It was concluded that a coarser discretization of the innermost organs was sufficient.
In wireless implants for body-centric wireless communications, contactless powering of a microvalve for drug delivery can be addressed by near-field inductive coupling, due to its close proximity to the external interrogator. In [64], a numerical and experimental analysis of the biotelemetry link for the microvalve was undertaken in the vicinity of numerical and physical human body phantoms, respectively. To accurately account for the path losses and to address the design optimization, the receiver coil/antenna was solved simultaneously with the transmitter coil/antenna in the presence of a human body using three-dimensional, high frequency electromagnetic FEM modeling. The received relative signal strength was numerically and experimentally derived for a miniature (6 mm × 6 mm × 0.5 mm), square spiral antenna/coil when interrogated by a handheld 8 cm × 5 cm × 0.2 cm square spiral antenna/coil in the near-field. The experimental results agreed well with the FEM analysis predictions and hence ascertained the applicability of the developed system for secure interrogation and remote powering of the newly proposed microvalve [63]. In [64], FEM was utilized to investigate the electric-field intra-body communication (EF-IBC) channel. Due to its near-field-coupling operation, most of the signal from the transmitter (TX) is confined to the body and has little interference with other electronic devices [64]. The FEM model of the EF-IBC channel is verified by experimental measurements in the frequency range of 1 to 180 MHz, to quantify the body influence on the capacitive return path. In addition, a simplified circuit model of the EF-IBC channel was derived based on the FEM model to facilitate the transceiver design for intra-body communications [64].
2.4.1.5 Finite-Difference Time-Domain Method (FDTD)
FDTD is one of the best-known numerical methods for solving boundary-value problems and has been applied to the electromagnetic problems for some years. Like FEM, it demands the division of the EM structures into a set of small cells, and therefore, is suitable for modeling inhomogeneous media and complicated boundaries.
The FDTD method was proposed by Yee in 1966 [33]. Extensions and enhancements to the method are continuously announced, as can be seen from the number of published papers counted by Schneider [65]. Since 1991, there have been a number of research papers on the application of the FDTD method [62] in calculating SAR for mobile applications. Modifications on the conventional FDTD scheme have been also made in order to achieve memory efficient human model. Lazzi et al. [66] proposed a method which uses prestored FDTD computed impulse responses (Green's functions) of the human body model by integrating them with the complex incident electromagnetic field distribution that can be measured on site. The application of this method to the dosimetry of various cellular telephone base station antennas was presented, showing its versatility and ease of use. Early efforts used crude models of the human head and body. In [67], a spherical head approximation was used near a simple FDTD mesh model of a portable telephone. In [68], a slightly more realistic human head model was used, again with a nearby portable telephone. An approximate FDTD mesh for an entire human body was shown in [69]. Such models are only useful for predicting antenna patterns and for rough estimates of the electromagnetic fields inside a human head or body. In order to provide more accurate estimates of the internal electromagnetic fields, more realistic FDTD meshes have been obtained from MRI scan data [70].
An alternative approach for obtaining the human body data is the Visible Human Project. This project involved slicing a frozen cadaver at 1-mm intervals, photographing the slices, and digitizing the data. The result is 1871 digital files, one for each cross section, at 2048 × 1216 pixel resolution with 24 bit color. The total amount of data is approximately 15 gigabytes. A convenient source for information on this data is available at the home page of the National Library of Medicine (http://www.nlm.nih.gov)[45, 71].
One of the major reasons for the rapid growing of the FDTD method is that it requires only O(N) computer complexity, while MoM and FEM need O(N2) computational storage, where N is the number of the unknowns. Wideband results, useful for ultrawideband (UWB) body-centric systems, can be obtained by performing a fast Fourier transform on the time-domain response, which is available with only one simulation.
As with other numerical techniques, the FDTD method has a few weaknesses. First of all, it requires the entire computational domain to be meshed, and these cells must be small compared to the smallest wavelength and smaller than the smallest feature in the model. The former results in the large computational burden and the latter makes the modelling of long and thin structures very difficult. In addition, because the many elements on electromagnetic structures are curved, the edges will not be smooth, but be "stair-cased." Where configurations have sharp or acute-angled edges, an adequately stair-cased approximation may require a very small grid size and consequently, a small time step. In this respect, FDTD is not as flexible as the FEM method.
In [72], the on-body radio channel at 900 MHz is studied through a rigorous determination of electromagnetic fields in a specified body domain using a three-dimensional FDTD technique. The FDTD was applied to digital human phantoms, including Visible Human [73]; Zubal [74]; Norman [75]; Japanese Man and Japanese Woman [44]; and Korean Human Model [76]. The effect of human presence on antennas parameters, such as resonance frequency, the radiated power, the directivity and the gain of the antenna, were studied. The influence of human morphology on the wave propagation was also investigated. Efficiency of dipole antennas and specific absorption rate (SAR) were calculated for different human body models. Channel parameters, such as path loss and delay spread, were also extracted from the electromagnetic numerical simulations and verified experimentally data given in the literature. In 2010, Miry et al. [77] presented a new simulation strategy based on the FDTD method in order to efficiently simulate a full-duplex link where both the transmitting and receiving antennas for on-body and in-body communications require a precise description, while their environment does not imply a particularly fine mesh. The principle of this so-called bilateral dual-grid-FDTD technique split the overall simulation into three FDTD simulations sequentially executed with an appropriate mesh. The radiator was first characterized using a fine mesh, then all the elements of the problem were represented using a coarse mesh, and finally, the element requiring a high resolution were finely described. Numerical experiments included the simulation of a 2.4-GHz transmission between two on-body devices and the computation of the SAR in the fetal brain of a pregnant woman at 900 MHz. According to [77], the bilateral dual-grid-FDTD technique proved to be accurate, fast, stable, and simple to implement compared to the conventional algorithm. Among others, Xu et al. [78] applied the FDTD method to simulate 21 scenarios where wireless implants were placed at seven positions with three orientations and for each of the two human models. SAR, temperature rise, near fields, and far fields were analyzed at four selected operation frequencies of 430 and 800 MHz, and 1.2 and 2.4 GHz, respectively. The objective of this study was to assess the compliance of ingested wireless device (IWD) with related international safety guidelines.
2.4.2 On-Body Radio Channel Modeling
2.4.2.1 A Brief Introduction of Modeling Techniques
Accurate prediction of radio propagation behavior is crucial to body-centric wireless system design. It is important to optimize wearable node locations to ensure satisfactory system coverage. Site measurements have the advantage of accounting for all parameters without presumptions. However, they are expensive and time consuming. Therefore, it is necessary to develop effective body-centric channel models. Many statistical and site-specific models for narrowband indoor/outdoor propagation analysis have been established using a ray tracing (RT) technique and FDTD method. Sarkar et al. [79] presented a survey of various propagation models for mobile communications. Wang et al. [80] introduced a hybrid technique based on the combination of RT and FDTD methods; however, it was only applicable for narrowband systems. Recently, Attiya et al., [81] proposed a simulation model for UWB systems using RT. However, the accuracy of this model may decrease when small scatterers are considered. When applying existing narrowband channel models to UWB systems, a number of issues have to be taken into account. For example, for a UWB system, human tissues and materials in the local environment are likely dispersive across a wide frequency band, such as the UWB 3.1- 10.6 GHz band. To accurately include material information in the simulations, one solution is to apply the dispersive FDTD method [82]. Another solution is using a newly proposed sub-band FDTD method. In Sections 2.4.2.2-2.4.2.5, several modified modeling techniques are introduced in detail, namely the UTD, RT, conformal, and dispersive FDTD.
2.4.2.2 Homogeneous vs. Inhomogeneous Phantoms
In order to characterize on-body radio channel and wearable antennas, realistic digital phantoms need to be included in the numerical analysis. The development of inhomogeneous phantoms, classifying several internal organs, is a complicated process where data regarding the internal composition of the body is obtained by sectioning a cadaver. This kind of phantom is necessary for certain applications, such as the analysis of medical implants, and for evaluating the distribution of the SAR inside the body. However, since the skin depth is so small, when studying the on-body radio channel at microwave frequencies, the internal composition of the body does not play a major role. This allows the use of realistic-shaped homogeneous phantoms (usually made of muscle tissue), which have the big advantage that can be easily developed by segmenting the images given by a single MRI scan.
In [83], the results obtained by adopting a homogeneous phantom are compared to those obtained with a stratified phantom. The FDTD simulations are carried out at 2.4 GHz with a cell size dx = dy = dz = 3 mm and time step dt = 1.67 ps, according to the stability criterion. A ten-cell Berenger's perfect matched layer (PML) was used to truncate the simulation domain. The stratified phantom adopted is the body model of a Japanese male (22 years old, 1.73 m tall and weighing 65 kg), in which over 50 types of tissues are classified [45]. Two different cases of homogeneous models have been analyzed. In the first, the properties of the muscle tissues are considered (εr = 53:6, σ = 1.77 S/m at 2.45 GHz); while in the second, a tissue with a 2/3 of muscles was used (εr = 35:4, σ = 1.19 S/m at 2.45 GHz). Such a tissue model represents an "average tissue," and it has been extensively used in evaluating the performance of medical implants [84]. Figure 2.12 [83] shows the distribution of the electric field sliced horizontally on the plane of the transmitter. It is possible to note a good agreement between homogeneous and inhomogeneous cases, where the transmitting antenna is placed on the left side of the waist and eight representative on-body links have been considered. Table 2.4 [83] lists the values of received power for each link obtained, adopting the homogenous phantoms with respect to the values obtained in the inhomogeneous case. The maximum difference between homogeneous and inhomogeneous phantoms is 2.9 dB for the muscle case and 3.4 dB for the 2/3 muscle case. The conclusion of this analysis was that a homogeneous phantom made of muscle tissue was suitable for modeling the on-body radio channel at 2.4 GHz. The advantage of using inhomogeneous phantoms in on-body simulations is that the model can be easily developed, thus allowing a thorough numerical analysis where different digital phantoms and human body postures are considered.


Figure 2.12 Comparison of the electric field amplitude for on-body simulations using inhomogenous and homogenous phantoms.


Table 2.4 Received power (in dB) for the homogeneous case.*
2.4.2.3 Conformal FDTD Modeling of On-Body Radio Propagation
The locally distorted, non-orthogonal FDTD (LN-FDTD) method [85] was developed so that only those cells close to the curved boundary are distorted and processed with the non-orthogonal FDTD (NFDTD) algorithm; others remain as Cartesian cells. As an example, the iteration of a transverse electric (TE) polarization problem is given. Suppose at a cell node (i, k) there is a Cartesian cell. Then the conventional Yee algorithm for this cell can be implemented:


(2.2)



(2.3)



(2.4)

where dx and dz are the grid increments in the x and z direction, respectively. If the node (l, m) pertains to a distorted cell then Holland's equations [86] can be used to find the electromagnetic properties of that cell:


(2.5)



(2.6)



(2.7)

On the left-hand side of the above equations, the components being updated are the contravariant E and H fields; on the right-hand side, there are the covariant components. To complete the iteration for these components an interpolation scheme is required:


(2.8)

and similarly for E2. For the third component we have Hy = Hy. In the above, G is a matrix related to the metric tensor by


(2.9)

At the interface between the Cartesian and the distorted cells, the components match each other automatically by letting


(2.10)

Therefore, the interpolation at the interface is very simple and does not need any extra computer resources. A complete discussion about the LD-NFDTD method and the calculation of the metric tensor can be found in [87].
The Queen Mary University of London conformal FDTD modeling software was used to evaluate on-body propagation channels. The human body grid, shown in Figure 2.13, was given the following tissue parameters at 2.4 GHz. The relative permittivity and conductivity of dry skin were 38.1 and 1.441 S/m; those for muscle, which is used over the whole body, were 52.7 and 1.705 S/m; those for lungs, which have a large volume in the upper body, were 34.5 and 1.219S/m. Bones and other organs were not considered because of their relatively small volumes. The path loss variation against the distance is shown in Figure 2.14, compared to measurement results for the monopole-loop case for the belt-to-chest case when the body is standing straight up. Good agreement is observed.


Figure 2.13 A GUI for an in-house conformal FDTD program showing a human body, grid, tissue settings, and signal responses.(Outline shape similar to the one from invisible man project (inset picture) Tissue parameters, dry skin εr = 38.1, σ = 1.441 S/m, muscle εr = 52.7, σ = 1.705 S/m; lungs, εr = 34.5 and σ = 1.219S/m).



Figure 2.14 Comparison of measurements and simulations of belt monopole-chest loop link when body is standing straight up. Solid line = measurement, circles = conformal FDTD simulation, frequency = 2.45 GHz.

2.4.2.4 Implementation of the Equivalence Principle in FDTD
If practical, wearable, or implantable antennas are considered in the modeling of body-centric wireless communications, a much higher spatial resolution is needed to accurately encounter small geometrical features in the antenna and its associated electronic circuits, such as the impedance matching network, RF transceivers, and batteries. To overcome this, a solution based on the equivalence principle was proposed [88] to decompose the original problem into two sub-domains as shown in Figure 2.15.


Figure 2.15 The numerical problem is split in two sub-problems: the antenna is analyzed in free space with CST Microwave Studio™, the human body is modeled with FDTD, the equivalence principle is used to interface the two computational domains.

The antenna can be analyzed in free space using CST Microwave Studio™; its near fields on a closed surface surrounding the antenna are recorded. The human body is modeled in the FDTD using the HUGO digital human phantom [90]. Near fields obtained from the CST simulation are used as an input in the form of electrical and magnetic surface currents to the FDTD code [89].
The numerical problem can be divided into two separate issues: the antenna is first analyzed in free space with CST Microwave Studio™ and a virtual box surrounding the antenna is set (as shown in Figure 2.16) at which near fields are sampled at the steady state for the desired frequency. Different from [89], in which indoor propagation scenarios were considered, the radiation pattern calculated with CST Microwave Studio™ could not be directly applied to on-body propagation; as a result, the radiation pattern must be modified due to backscattering and energy absorption when the antenna is placed close to the human body. The distance d (as shown in Figure 2.16) represents the spacing between the antenna and the human body; hence its value has to be small when the antenna is body-worn, and it is dependent on the FDTD spatial discretization. Secondly, recorded field components are converted into surface currents to be used as an excitation source for the FDTD code to evaluate on-body antennas and radio channels.


Figure 2.16 Equivalent surface surrounding the antenna: fields on this box are recorded; the distance d between the antenna and the face of the box in proximity of the human body has to be small.

Several antennas have been numerically investigated using the equivalence principle based FDTD technique [88], applying the HUGO human model. In [88], FDTD simulations were carried out in 3-D with a cell size dx = dy = dz = 3 mm, time step dt = 1.67 ps, according to the stability criterion. A ten-cell Berenger's PML is used to truncate the simulation domain. The radiation pattern has been evaluated in free space and in proximity to the human body with the antenna placed in proximity of the body trunk. Radiation patterns calculated from the proposed method have been validated with measurement results, as shown in Figure 2.17.


Figure 2.17 (a) Patch antenna and relative dimensions, (b) comparison between simulated and measured radiation pattern on the azimuth plane in free space, (c) on-body radiation pattern on the azimuth plane; (d) free space radiation pattern on the elevation plane; and (e) on-body radiation pattern on the elevation plane.

2.4.2.5 Modified FDTD Techniques for UWB On-Body Channel Modeling Dispersive FDTD Method
One of the most significant developments in the FDTD method is its capability of modeling frequency dependent materials. The existing dispersive FDTD methods can be roughly categorized into three types, the differential equation-based method, the Z-transform method, and the discrete convolution method. The choice of method depends on the frequency dependence of material properties. In our studies, the Debye material is considered. The complex frequency dependent permittivity can be modeled using [92]


(2.11)

where ε0 is the infinite relative dielectric constant, εs is the static relative dielectric constant, t0 is the relaxation time, and σ is the conductivity. Since the electric flux density Δ(ω) is related to the electric field E(ω) by


(2.12)

one can write,


(2.13)

According to the differentiation property of the Fourier transform, the above equation can be written in a differential form:


(2.14)

In central difference form it is:


(2.15)

Equation (2.15) can be incorporated into the conventional FDTD code.
A Subband FDTD Method
In UWB radio channels, the inherent material dispersion represents the change of permittivity and conductivity with frequency. Such dispersion cannot be generically modeled using existing dispersive FDTD methods based on Debye/Lorentz relations, and therefore, a sub-band FDTD is needed. To apply the subband FDTD method, one can follow these steps [89]:


First, divide the whole frequency band into several subbands, each of which is narrow enough to assume same frequency characteristics;


Use the conventional FDTD method to obtain the time domain delay profiles for each subband;


Fourier transform the subband delay profiles into the frequency domain, extract the "accurate" part and combine them to give new frequency responses;


Transform the frequency responses back into the time domain to have a delay profile that is valid over the entire bandwidth.


In the following example, the frequency band of 3 to 9 GHz is divided into 12 subbands, each with 500-MHz bandwidth. The number of subbands depends on the accuracy required in modeling the dispersive material properties. For instance, the relative dielectric constant of human muscle ranges from 52.058 at 3 GHz to 44.126 at 9 GHz, as seen in Figure 2.2 [8]. Twelve subbands are used to match the frequency dispersion curve by assuming the dielectric constant within each subband to be constant (obtained at the center frequency of each subband). The overall error from such a curve fitting is less than 1%. Figure 2.18 shows the frequency dependent dielectric constant and conductivity of human muscle from measurement and their stair-casing approximation used in the proposed subband FDTD model.

 
Figure 2.18 Subband approximations for the UTD/RT and subband FDTD models to measured permittivity and conductivity of human muscle.

For step 3, the combination of received signals in the frequency domain can be obtained using:


(2.16)

where Fr,j(ω) is the received frequency domain signal at the ith subband, Ai(ω) is a rectangle window function associated with the bandwidth of the ith subband, and N is the total number of subbands. Finally, the combined frequency domain signal is inverse Fourier transformed into the time domain to obtain time delay profile.
Figure 2.19 shows the path loss around an elliptical trunk, or midriff, using the sub-band FDTD model, UTD/RT model and measurement. The trunk is approximately 80 cm in circumference. Good agreement is achieved when the distance of the transmitter and receiver is small. However, when the distance approaches 40 cm, ripples (caused by the addition or cancellation of two creeping rays) are observed from the UTD/RT method and measurement traveling in opposite directions around the trunk. The subband FDTD model fails to accurately predict such phenomenon due to the stair-case approximation of the curved surfaces. However, this problem can be alleviated by using the conformal FDTD method [85]. Figure 2.19 also shows that for modeling simple on-body communication cases, such as both the transmitter and the receiver on the trunk, UTD proves to be very efficient and gives accurate results.


Figure 2.19 Path loss around the human trunk at UWB frequencies, from the subband FDTD model, the UTD model and measurement.

Figures 2.20 and 2.21 show the comparison of path loss for different on-body channels using a wideband monopole and printed bowtie antenna, respectively. The calculated path loss exponents are also shown in both figures. The high exponent values are due to the nonreflecting environment (or free space). For the monopole, both the subband FDTD and UTD/RT show good agreement with measurements since the antenna radiation characteristics are relatively stable across the bandwidth. Thus, it is clear that the approximations of using a point source in the sub-band FDTD method and the use of the radiation pattern at 6 GHz for the whole bandwidth in the UTD/RT method are reasonable. For the printed antenna, the larger difference is caused by antenna radiation pattern instability.


Figure 2.20 Path loss for on-body channels using a wideband monopole from UTD/RT model, sub-band FDTD model and measurement. (Least square fitted line and path loss exponent value for each model also shown.)



Figure 2.21 Path loss for on-body channels using a printed wideband bowtie antenna from UTD/RT model and measurement. (Least square fitted line and path loss exponent value for each model also shown.)

2.4.2.6 Subject-Specific Modeling of the On-Body Radio Channel
It is widely accepted that on-body radio channel characteristics depend on the body posture change and movement of human subjects. In addition, Zhao et al. [93-95] demonstrated that some radio channels in body-centric wireless communications are subject-specific, where path losses vary from different sizes and gender. In [93], a total of nine human subjects (as shown in Figure 2.22) were considered in the modeling of on-body channels: five females and four males with their heights and weights are listed in Table 2.5, together with their body mass indices (BMIs), and their chest and waist circumferences.


Figure 2.22 Three-dimensional images and cross sections at the stomach on the nine voxelized subjects.


Table 2.5 The Dimensions of Nine Subjects Scanned Using MRI and Used in FDTD Simulations.
The path loss is characterized for propagation along the trunk by placing the transmitting antenna (Hertzian dipole parallel to the body surface) on the left side of the waist. The field is then sampled on over a hundred locations on the front part of the trunk. In order to model the path loss as a linear function of the logarithmic distance, a least square fit is performed on the simulated data. In Figure 2.23, the comparison between simulations and measurements shows good agreement which validates the numerical simulation. However, the measured data is more spread comparing with the simulated one, and this may be due to the cable effects, which are not taken into account in numerical simulations. Despite this fact, the path loss exponent from simulations and measurements shows good agreement.


Figure 2.23 The comparison between measurements and simulations of the on-body path loss (against distance) for subjects Female01 and Male01.2.5

Table 2.6 lists the values of path loss exponent and standard deviation of the shadowing factor obtained for the nine digital phantoms. The results show that the exponent is generally increasing with body size. In the case of subjects with a low value of BMI, such as F01 and F03, the subject presents a very small curvature radius of the trunk, and hence there is LOS between transmitter and receiver, and the path loss exponent is γ = 2.3, which is close to the free space value. For subjects with higher curvature radius of the trunk (such as F05), the wave reaches the receiver through creeping wave propagation, thus leading to higher value of exponent (γ = 2.9). A similar conclusion can be drawn for the male phantoms, where subjects with higher BMI (and hence with a larger curvature radius at the trunk), such as M03 and M04 have a path loss exponent greater than 3.0.

Table 2.6 Path Loss Exponent and Standard Deviation of the Shadowing Factor for the Nine Subjects.
2.5 Modeling of Dynamic Body Effects
Many phantom models with detailed external and internal features have been introduced in recent years by researchers and are now provided with commercial electromagnetic simulators. Phantoms vary in size, resolution, internal structure and posture. Although some phantoms can be posed, it is not straightforward to recreate the exact positions of test subjects for validation purposes. Section 2.4.3 focuses on creating a moving human model with postures closely corresponding to those used in measurements to be used for validation in EM software.
2.5.1 Methodology
There are four processes involved in creating a 3-D animated human model (as seen in Figure 2.24):


Scanning the Human Body Surface: The test person body surface is obtained from a 3D scanner such as the Human Solutions Anthroscan system where three scanning lasers and sensors create the 3-D surface in .obj format. Any holes in the surface caused by poor reflectivity or shadows must be repaired by software after the scan is completed.


Capturing Human Movement and Antenna Position While Measuring the Body-Centric Radio Channel: A motion capture rig using passive infrared reflecting markers is preferred over alternative active motion sensing devices owing to the reduced scattering and interference to the wireless channels under test. In this study, an 8-camera VICON Motion Capture was used. The test subject wore skin-tight clothing with 53 markers positioned in specific places so each joint could be identified and its movement could be recreated. Each antenna was mounted on a plastic frame with 5 markers to define its position as can be seen in Figure 2.25. To reduce positional errors, it is important that the markers describing the antenna position are not all in the same plane.


A synch pulse from the motion capture system triggered a Rohde and Swartz network analyzer to measure the body-centric radio channel S-parameters during motion capture. Provided that the 53 body markers have been accurately placed within certain bounds, the motion capture system is able to recognize and create a predefined human form called a skeleton. Following the measurement, this captured animated skeleton sequence must be inspected frame by frame to correct for any erroneous or distorted movements caused by certain markers being obscured by body movements and becoming invisible to the cameras. Distortions in the skeleton are corrected in post processing or the measurement must be repeated (if necessary).


Creating an Animated Model: In this study, the movement data from the motion capture system and the human surface data from the 3-D scanner are combined in AutoDesk Maya to create an animated human surface. When incorporating the scanned surface with the motion skeleton, it is important that each part of the skin is attached to the correct articulating parts of the skeleton and that various skin surfaces are disassociated from each other to avoid inappropriate interactions, such as skin from the arm merging with the side of the torso. This process is known as rigging. The final animated avatar should be inspected to correct any erroneous skin distortions before the EM simulation.


Capturing Movement Frame by Frame: The final step is to select key static frames, which represent the motion under study. These are imported individually into the EM simulator. In this study, the time domain simulation was by REMCOM's XFdtd. Figure 2.26 illustrates 5 frames of the walking action starting in a standing position, which are used in this work.




Figure 2.24 The steps of making an animated human body with Motion Capture.



Figure 2.25 A dual-band wearable metallic button antenna mounted on a frame with markers.



Figure 2.26 A 5-frame example of a dynamic model taking two steps from a standing position.

The body scanner captures surfaces only, and before simulation, these must be converted to solids using CAD conversion software. A 3D homogenous model was then imported into XFdtd as a .sat file for electromagnetic simulation using the Finite Difference Time Domain method.
2.5.2 Measurements and Model Validation
A dual band wearable metallic button antenna, DBMBA [96] with operating bands at 2.45 and 5.5GHz has been used in this study. Several measurements are shown below to validate the motion captured avatar simulations. An example of the practical set up on a real human test subject with 2 DBMBAs, one mounted on a subject's right shoulder and another one mounted on the left side of the subject's chest, is shown in Figure 2.27. The measurements were carried out in a motion capture studio with a concrete floor and no anechoic absorbers present. There were two types of test case: on-body, where two DBMBAs were attached to the subject's body, and off-body, where one DBMBA was mounted on a subject's body with the other antenna on a pole away from the human subject. In each case, measurements of S21 were taken over 5 frames of two steps from a standing position as follows:


Position 1: both feet together;


Position 2: step right;


Position 3: step left;


Position 4: step right;


Position 5: step left.




Figure 2.27 Subject in test room for on-body right shoulder-left chest communication.

S21 measurements were taken between 1 to 6 GHz with 162-ms sweep using a Rohde and Swartz ZVB spectrum analyser providing 600 sampling data points. The curves were averaged over five sets of measurement for each position.
On-body channel measurement: the first measurement of the on-body case was taken with one antenna mounted on the right shoulder and another on the left chest. Figure 2.28(a) shows a comparison between measurement and simulation for Position 4 (right foot forward) and Position 5 (left foot forward). Figure 2.28(a) shows that that S21 is relatively independent of walking position in both simulation and measurement in both bands of interest. This is to be expected, as the antennas are placed quite high on the body making them less influenced by limb movements.
The second set of measurements of an on-body channel was taken with the antennas located on the right leg and hip. The simulated and measured S-parameters for Positions 4 and 5 can be seen in Figure 2.28(b). A bigger change is observed at the 5.5GHz band (about 2-3 dB) than for the shoulder-chest case. Measurement and simulation differ at the upper band by about 8 dB, but both show the same trend. The dependence of S21 on body position in this case is caused by the side antenna being affected by the differing proximity to the right arm in Positions 4 and 5.


Figure 2.28 Comparison of S21 between simulation and measurement for on-body case.

Off-body channel measurement: results for off-body channels can be seen in Figures 2.29(a) and (b). Figure 2.29(a) is for the case of an antenna on the right shoulder and Figure 2.29(b) has the antenna on the right side of the subject's torso (right waist). For both cases, the off-body antenna is attached to a plastic pole with the subject walking toward it during the experiments.
In Figure 2.29 (a), with the shoulder mounted antenna, S21 for both body positions is very similar. The difference between the two postures in both bands is about 1-2 dB for measurement and about 4-5 dB in simulation. More variation in S21 can be seen in Figure 2.29(b) for the case of antenna located lower down on a human body, on the right side of the waist. Here there is 3-4 dB difference in the measurement and about 10 dB in the simulation.
As described, simulations were performed for two walking positions. Results in Figures 2.28 and 2.29 for S21 on-body and off-body channels, respectively, indicate that changing body postures can lead to some changes in channel gain. Introducing a perfect electrically conducting floor to the simulation created a noticeable ripple to the S21 curves in the off-body case. This effect was much less significant when simulating on-body channels. This indicates that the environment has more influence on the off-body channel than the on-body channel, since in the latter case, the two antennas were closer to each other compared to the distance to the floor.
By comparing Figure 2.28 and Figure 2.29, it is clear that there is less variation in S21 due to body movement for the off-body case than the on-body case. For the relatively high up antenna positions and walking postures used in the studies reported here, body posture has some effect on on-body channels, but little or no effect on off-body transmission. However, in all cases it can be observed that the agreement between simulation and measurement is good which indicates that the scanned avatar is providing an accurate representation of the test subject's body shape, material, and posture.


Figure 2.29 Comparison of S21 between simulation and measurement for off-body case.

References
[1] Durney, C.H., H. Massoudi, and M. F. Iskander, Radiofrequency Radiation Dosimetry Handbook, Brooks Air Force Base- USAFSAM-TR-85-73, 1986.
[2] Geddes, L. A., and L. E. Barker, "The Specific Resistance of Biological Material-A Compendium of Data for the Biomedical Engineer and Physiologist," Medical and Biological Engineering, 5, 1967, pp. 271-293.
[3] Stuchly, M. A., and S. S Stuchly, "Dielectric Properties of Biological Substances-Tabulated," The Journal of Microwave Power, Vol. 15, No. 1, 1980, pp. 19-26.
[4] Foster, K. R., and H. P. Schwan, "Dielectric Properties of Tissues and Biological Materials: A Critical Review," Critical Reviews in Biomedical Engineering, Vol. 17, No. 1, 1989, pp. 25-104.
[5] Duck, F. A., Physical Properties of Tissue: A Comprehensive Reference Book, Academic Press, Harcourt Brace Jovanovich,1990.
[6] Gabriel, C., "Compilation of the dielectric properties of body tissues at RF and microwave frequencies," Brooks Air Force Technical Report, AL/OE-TR-1996-0037, 1996.
[7] Gabriel C., T. Y. A. Chan, and E. H. Grant, "Admittance Models for Open Ended Coaxial Probes and Their Place in Dielectric Spectroscopy," Physics in Medicine and Biology, Vol. 39, No. 12, 1994, pp. 2183-2200.
[8] "An Internet Resource for the Calculation of the Dielectric Properties of Body Tissues," Institute for Applied Physics, Italian National Research Council, http://niremf.ifac.cnr.it/tissprop/.
[9] Peyman, A., A. A. Rezazadeh, and C. Gabriel, "Changes in the Dielectric Properties of Rat Tissue as a Function of Age at Microwave Frequencies," Phys. Med. Biol., Vol. 46, 2001, pp. 1617-1629
[10] ICNIRP, "Guidelines for Limiting Exposure to Time-varying Electric, Magnetic, and Electromagnetic Fields (up to 300 GHz)," Health Physics, Vol. 74, No. 4, 1998, pp. 494-522.
[11] IEEE, "IEEE Recommended Practice for Determining the Peak Spatial-Average Specific Absorption Rate (SAR) in the Human Head from Wireless Communications Devices: Measurement Techniques," IEEE Std 1528-2003, 2003.
[12] Kanda, M. Y., M. Ballen, S. Salins, C. K. Chou, and Q. Balzano, "Formulation and Characterization of Tissue Equivalent Liquids Used for RF Densitometry and Dosimetry Measurements," IEEE Trans. Microw. Theory Tech., Vol. 52, No. 8, 2004, pp. 2046-2056.
[13] Guy, A. W., "Analyses of Electromagnetic Fields Induced in Biological Tissues by Thermographic Studies on Equivalent Phantom Models," Microwave Theory and Techniques, IEEE Transactions on, Vol. 19, No. 2, 1968, pp. 205-214.
[14] Ito, K., K. Furuya, Y. Okano, and L. Hamada, "Development and Characteristics of a Biological Tissue-equivalent Phantom for Microwaves," Electron. Commun. Jpn. Pt. ICommun., Vol. 84, No. 4, 2001, pp. 67-77.
[15] Kobayashi, T., T. Nojima, K. Yamada, and S. Uebayashi, "Dry Phantom Composed of Ceramics and its Application to SAR Estimation," IEEE Trans. Microw. Theory Tech., Vol. 41, No. 1, 1993, pp. 136-140.
[16] Tamura, H., Y. Ishikawa, T. Kobayashi, and T. Nojima, "A Dry Phantom Material Composed of Ceramic and Graphite Powder," IEEE Trans. Electromagn. Compat., Vol. 39, No. 2, 1997, pp. 132-137.
[17] Nikawa, Y., M. Chino, and K. Kikuchi, "Soft and Dry Phantom Modeling Material Using Silicone Rubber with Carbon Fiber," IEEE Trans. Microw. Theory Tech., Vol. 44, No. 10, 1996, pp. 1949-1952.
[18] Chang, J. T, M. W. Fanning, P. M. Meaney, and K. D. Paulsen, "A Conductive Plastic for Simulating Biological Tissue at Microwave Frequencies," IEEE Transactions on Electromagnetic Compatibility, Vol. 42, No. 1, 2000, pp. 76-81.
[19] Ogawa, K., T. Matsuyoshi, H. Iwai, and N. Hatakenaka, "A High-precision Real Human Phantom for EM Evaluation of Handheld Terminals in a Talk Situation," in Proc. Int. IEEE Antennas and Propagation Symp., Vol. 2, 2001, pp. 68-71.
[20] Ogawa, K., H. Iwai, and J. Hatakenaka, "A High-precision Real Human Phantom for EM Evaluation of Handheld Terminal Antennas in a Talk Situation," Trans. IEICE, Vol. J85-B, No. 5, 2002, pp. 676-686.
[21] Hall, H., and P. Chadwick, "Assessment of SAR From In-vehicle Radio Devices Using a Novel Measurement System," Proceedings of Joint Meeting of Bioelectromagnetics Society and the European Bioelectromagnetics Association, (CD-ROM), Dublin, Ireland, June 2005, pp. 89-90.
[22] Okano, Y., K. Ito, I. Ida, and M. Takahashi, "The SAR Evaluation Method by a Combination of Thermographic Experiments and Biological Tissue-equivalent Phantoms," IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory Tech., Vol. 48, No. 11, 2000, pp. 2094-2103.
[23] Ishido, R., T. Onishi, K. Saito, S. Uebayashi, and K. Ito, "A Study on the Solid Phantoms for 3-6 GHz and Evaluation of SAR Distributions Based on the Thermographic Method," Proceedings of the 2004 International Symposium on Electromagnetic Compatibility, EMC'04, Sendai, Japan, Vol. 3, B3-2, June 2004, pp. 577-580.
[24] Ito, K., M. Takahashi, and K. Saito, "Development of a Tissue-equivalent Solid Phantom for UWB Band and its Application to the Evaluation of the Interaction Between Radio Terminals and the Human Body," Trans. IEICE, Vol. J90-C, No.3, 2007, pp.208-215.
[25] Okano, Y., K. Ito, and H. Kawai, "Solid Phantom Composed of Glycerin and its Application to SAR Estimation," Trans. IEICE, Vol. J83-B, No. 4, 2000, pp. 534-543.
[26] http://www.asahi-rubber.co.jp/english/products/denjiha/
[27] Yamamoto, N., N. Shirakata, D. Kobayashi, and K. Ogawa, "BAN Communication Quality Assessments Using an Arm-waving Dynamic Phantom Replicating the Walking Motion of a Human," Proc. ICC2011, WCS-P2: Topics II on Wireless Communications, Kyoto, Japan, June 2011.
[28] Weil, C.M., "Absorption Characteristics of Multi-layered Sphere Models Exposed to UHF/Microwave Radiation," IEEE Trans. Biomed. Eng., Vol. 22, No. 6, 1975, pp. 468-476.
[29] Massoudi, H., C.H. Durney, P.W. Barbar, and M.F. Iskander, "Electromagnetic Absorption in Multilayered Cylindrical Models of Man," IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory Tech., Vol. 27, No. 10, 1979, pp. 825-830.
[30] Nishizawa, S., and O. Hashimoto, "Effective Shielding Analysis for Three Layered Human Model," IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory Tech., Vol. 47, No. 3, 1999, pp. 277-283.
[31] Yee, K. S., "Numerical Solution of Initial Boundary Value Problems Involving Maxwell's Equation in Isotropic Media," IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagat., Vol. 14, No. 3, 1996, pp. 302-307.
[32] Harrington, R.F., Field Computation by Moment Methods, Macmillan, 1968.
[33] COST244 Working Group 3, "Proposal Numerical Canonical Models in Mobile Communications," Proc. COST 244, Rome, Italy, November 1994, pp. 1-7.
[34] Okoniewski, M., and M.A. Stuchly, "A Study of the Handset Antenna and Human Body Interaction," IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory Tech., Vol. 44, No. 10, 1996, pp. 1865-1873.
[35] Hombach, V., K. Meier, M. Burkhardt, E. Kühn, and N. Kuster, "The Dependence of EM Energy Absorption Upon Human Head Modeling at 900 MHz," IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory Tech., Vol. 44, No. 10, 1996, pp. 1865-1873.
[36] Gandhi, O. P., G. Lazzi, and C. M. Furse, "Electromagnetic Absorption in the Human Head and Neck for Mobile Telephones at 835 MHz and 1900 MHz," IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory Tech., Vol. 44, No. 10, 1996, pp. 1884-1897.
[37] Schoenborn, F., M. Burkhardt, and N. Kuster, "Difference in Energy Absorption Between Heads of Adults and Children in the Near Field of Sources," Health Phys, Vol. 74, No. 2, 1998, pp. 160-168.
[38] Wang, J., and O. Fujiwara, "Comparison and Evaluation of Electromagnetic Absorption Characteristics in Realistic Human Head Models of Adult and Children for 900-MHz Mobile Telephones," IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory Tech., Vol. 51, No. 3, 2003, pp. 966-971.
[39] Wiart, J., A. Hadjem, N. Gadi, I. Bloch, M.F. Wong, A. Pradier, V.F. Hanna, D. Lautru, and R.D. Seze, "Children Head RF Exposure Analysis," Proceedings of Joint Meeting of Bioelectromagnetics Society and the European Bioelectromagnetics Association, (CD-ROM), Dublin, Ireland, June 2005, pp. 146-147.
[40] Dimbylow, P.J., "The Development of Realistic Voxel Phantoms for Electromagnetic Field Dosimetry," Proceedings of the International Workshop on Voxel Phantom Development, Chilton, UK, July 1995, pp. 1-7.
[41] ICRP, "Report of the Task Group on Reference Man," ICRP Publication 23, 1975.
[42] Mason, P. A., W. D. Hurt, T. J. Walters, J. A. D'Andrea, P. Gajšek, K. L. Ryan, D. A. Nelson, K. I. Smith, and J. M. Ziriax, "Effects of Frequency, Permittivity, and Voxel Size on Predicted Specific Absorption Rate Values in Biological Tissue During Electromagnetic-field Exposure," IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory Tech., Vol. 48, No. 11, 2000, pp. 2050-2057.
[43] US National Library of Medicine, National Institute of Health, USA, "The Visible Human Project,"http://www.nlm.nih.gov/research/visible/visible_human.html, last accessed July 2005.
[44] Xu, X. G., T. C. Chao, and A. Bozkurt, "VIP-man: An Image-based Whole-body Adult Male Model Constructed from Color Photographs of the Visible Human Project for Multiparticle Monte Carlo Calculations," Health Phys., 78, 2000, pp. 476-486.
[45] Nagaoka, T., S. Watanabe, K. Sakurai, E. Kunieda, S. Watanabe, M. Taki, and Y. Yamanaka, "Development of Realistic High-resolution Whole-body Voxel Models of Japanese Adult Males and Females of Average Height and Weight, and Application of Models to Radio-frequency Electromagnetic-field Dosimetry," Physics in Medicine and Biology, 49, 2004, pp. 1-15.
[46] Kainz, W., T. R. Kellon, R. Qiang, and J. Chen, "Development of Pregnant Woman Models for Nine Gestational Ages and Calculation of Fetus Heating During Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI)," Proceedings of the Joint Meeting of Bioelectromagnetics Society and the European Bioelectromagnetics Association, (CD-ROM), Dublin, Ireland, June 2005, pp. 137-139.
[47] Keller, J. B, "Geometrical Theory of Diffraction," J Opt Soc. Am, Vol. 52, 1962, pp. 116-130.
[48] Bernardi, P., Cavagnaro, M., Cicchetti, R., Pisa, S., Piuzzi, E., and Testa, O., "A UTD/FDTD investigation on procedures to assess compliance of cellular base-station antennas with human-exposure limits in a realistic urban environment," IEEE Transactions on Microwave Theory and Techniques, Vol. 51, Issue 12, December 2003, pp. 2409-2417.
[49] Ghaddar, M., Talbi, L., and Denidni, T.A., "Human body modelling for prediction of effect of people on indoor propagation channel," Electronics Letters, Vol. 40, Issue 25, December 2004, pp. 1592-1594.
[50] Ji Z., B-H. Li, H-X. Wang, H-Y. Chen, and T. K. Sarkar, "Efficient Ray-racing Methods for Propagation Prediction for Indoor Wireless Communication," IEEE Antennas and Propagation Magazine, Vol. 43, No. 2, 2001.
[51] Villanese, F., W. G. Scanlon, N. E. Evans, and E. Gambi, "Hybrid Image/ray-shooting UHF Radio Propagation Predictor for Populated Indoor Environments," Electronics Letters, Vol. 35, Issue 21, 1999, pp. 1804-1805.
[52] Koutitas, G., "Multiple Human Effects in Body Area Networks," IEEE Antennas and Wireless Propagation Letters, Vol. 9, 2010, pp. 938-941.
[53] Alipour, S., F. Parvaresh, H. Ghajari, and F. K. Donald, "Propagation Characteristics for a 60 GHz Wireless Body Area Network (WBAN)," Military Communications Conference-MILCOM 2010, pp.719-723.
[54] Cotton, S.L., W. G. Scanlon, and P. S. Hall, "A Simulated Study of Co-channel Inter-BAN Interference at 2.45 GHz and 60 GHz," 2010 European Wireless Technology Conference (EuWIT), 2010. pp. 61-64.
[55] Wang, J. Q., M. Komatsu, and O. Fujiwara, "Human Exposure Assessment Using a Hybrid Technique Based on Ray-tracing and FDTD Methods for a Cellular Base-station Antenna," Proceedings of the Radio Science Conference, 2004, pp. 538.
[56] Chen, W. T., and H. R. Chuang, "Numerical Computation of Human Interaction with Arbitrarily Oriented Superquadric Loop Antennas in Personal Communications,", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 46, Issue 6, 1998, pp.821-828.
[57] Chen, W-T, and H-R. Chuang, "Numerical Computation of the EM Coupling Between a Circular Loop Antenna and a Full-scale Human-body Model," IEEE Transactions on Microwave Theory and Techniques, Vol. 46, Issue 10, 1998, pp. 1516-1520.
[58] Chen, W-T., and H-R. Chuang, "Numerical Computation of the EM Coupling Between a Circular Loop Antenna and a Full-scale Human-body Model," IEEE Transactions on Microwave Theory and Techniques, Vol. 46, Issue 10, 1998, pp. 1516-1520.
[59] Meyer, F. J. C., D. B. Davidson, U. Jakobus, and M. A. Stuchly, "Human Exposure Assessment in the Near Field of GSM Base-station Antennas Using a Hybrid Finite Element/method of Moments Technique," IEEE Transactions on Biomedical Engineering, Vol. 50, Issue 2, 2003, pp. 224-233.
[60] Keshmiri, F., and C. Craeye, "A Green's Function Approach for Analysis of Body-area-network Antennas," Antennas and Propagation Conference, 2009, November 2009, pp. 769-772.
[61] Keshmiri, F., T. Yilmaz, Y. Hao, and C. Craeye, "MOM Analysis of Antenna Devoted to BAN," Proceedings of the 5th European Conference on Antennas and Propagation (EUCAP), April 2011, pp. 441-444.
[62] Ross, C. T. F., Advanced Applied Finite Element Method, Horwood Publishing, 1999.
[63] Renhart, W., C. A. Magele, N. and R. Stollberger, "Modelling and Calculation of Influences of RF-Fields on the Human Body Using the Finite Element Method," IEEE Transactions On Magnetics, Vol. 30, No. 5. September 1994, pp. 3092-3095.
[64] Schneider J. B., and K. L. Shlager, "FDTD Simulations of TEM Horns and the Implications for Staircased Representations," IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, Vol.: 45, Issue: 12, December 1997, pp. 1830-1838.
[65] Chen, J-Y., and O. P. Gandhi, "Currents Induced in an Anatomically Based Model of a Human for Exposure to Vertically Polarized Electromagnetic Pulses," IEEE Transactions on Microwave Theory and Techniques, Vol. 39, Issue 1, January 1991, pp. 31-39.
[66] Lazzi, G.; and O. P. Gandhi, "A Mixed FDTD-integral Equation Approach for On-site Safety Assessment in Complex Electromagnetic Environments," IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 48, Issue 12, December 2000, pp. 1830-1836.
[67] Toftgard J., S. N. Homsleth, and J. B. Andersen, "Effects on Portable Antennas of the Presence of a Person," IEEE Trans. AP-S, Vol. 41, No. 6, June 1993, pp. 739-746.
[68] Jensen M. A., and Y. Rahmat-Samii, "EM Interaction of Handset Antennas and a Human in Personal Communications," IEEE Proc., Vol. 83, No. 1, January 1995, pp. 7-17.
[69] Furse C. M., and O. P. Gandhi, "The Use of the Frequency-Dependent Finite-Difference Time-Domain Method for Induced Current and SAR Calculations for a Heterogeneous Model of the Human Body," IEEE Tran. EMC, Vol. 36, No. 2, May 1994, pp 128-133.
[70] Dimbylow, P. J., and S. M. Mann, "SAR Calculations in an Anatomically Realistic Model of the Head for Mobile Communications Transceivers at 900 MHz and 1.8 GHz," Phys. Med. Biol., Vol. 39, No. 10, 1994, pp. 1537-1553.
[71] Luebbers, R., and R. Baurle, "FDTD Predictions of Electromagnetic Fields in and Near Human Bodies Using Visible Human Project Anatomical Scans," Antennas and Propagation Society International Symposium, 1996, Vol. 3, July 1996, pp. 1806-1809.
[72] Terchoune H., D. Lautru, A. Gati, A. C. Carrasco, M. F. Wong, J. Wiart, and V. F. Hanna, "On-body Radio Channel Modeling for Different Human Body Models Using FDTD Techniques," Microwave and Optical Technology Letters, Vol. 51, Issue 10, October 2009, pp. 2498-2501.
[73] Ackerman M. J., "Accessing the Visible Human Project D-Lib," 1995, available at: http://www.nlm.nih.gov/research/visible_human.html.
[74] Zubal I. G., C. R. Harrell, E. O. Smith,, and A. L. Smith, "Two Dedicated Voxel-based Anthropomorphic (torso and head) Phantoms," Proceedings of International Conference at the National Radiological Protection Board, 1995, pp. 105-111.
[75] Dimbylow, P. J., 'The Development of Realistic Voxel Phantoms for Electromagnetic Field Dosimetry," Proceedings of International Workshop on Voxel Phantom Development (National Radiological Protection Board Report), 1996, pp, 1-7.
[76] Lee A., W. Y. Choi, M. S. Chung, H. D. Choi, and J. I. Choi, "Development of Korean Male Body Model for Computational Dosimetry," ETRI J, Vol. 28, 2006, pp. 107-110.
[77] Miry, C., R. Loison, and R. Gillard, "An Efficient Bilateral Dual-Grid-FDTD Approach Applied to On-Body Transmission Analysis and Specific Absorption Rate Computation," IEEE Transactions on Microwave Theory and Techniques, Vol. 58, Issue 9, 2010, pp. 2375-2382.
[78] Xu, L., M. Q-H. Meng, R. Hongliang, and Y. Chan, "Radiation Characteristics of Ingestible Wireless Devices in Human Intestine Following Radio Frequency Exposure at 430, 800, 1200, and 2400 MHz," IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 57, Issue 8, August 2009, pp. 2418-2428.
[79] Sarkar T. K., Z. Ji, K. Kim, A. Medour, and M. Salazar-Palma, "A Survey of Various Propagation Models for Mobile Communication," Antennas and Propagation Magazine, Vol. 45, No. 3, June 2003.
[80] Wang Y., S. Safavi-Naeini, and S. K. Chaudhuri, "A Hybrid Technique Based on Combining Ray Tracing and FDTD Methods for Site-Specific Modelling of Indoor Radio Wave Propagation," IEEE Transactions on Antennas Propagation, Vol. AP-48, No. 5, May 2000, pp. 743-754.
[81] Attuya, M., and A. Safaai-Jazi, "Simulation of Ultra-Wideband Indoor Propagation," Microwave and Optical Technology Letters, Vol. 42, No. 2, July 20 2004.
[82] Zhao Y., Y. Hao, A. Alomainy, and C. Parini, "UWB on-body Radio Channel Modeling Using Ray Theory and Subband FDTD Method," IEEE Transactions on Microwave Theory and Techniques, Vol. 54, Issue 4, June 2006, pp. 1827-1835.
[83] Sani, A., "Modelling and Characterisation of Antenna and Propagation for Body-Centric Wireless Communications," Ph.D. thesis, Queen Mary University of London, UK, January 2010.
[84] Kim, J., and Y. Rahmat-Samii, "Implanted Antennas Inside a Human Body: Simulations, Designs, and Characterizations," IEEE Transactions on Microwave Theory and Techniques, Vol. 52, No. 8, August 2004, pp. 1934-1943.
[85] Hao Y., and C. J. Railton, "Analyzing Electromagnetic Structures with Curved Boundaries on Cartesian FDTD Meshes," IEEE Transactions on Microwave Theory and Techniques, Vol. 46, January 1998, pp. 82-88.
[86] Holland, R., "Finite Difference Solutions of Maxwell's Equations in Generalized Non-orthogonal Coordinates," IEEE Trans. Nuc. Sci., Vol. NS-30, No. 6, December 1983, pp. 4689-4591.
[87] Hao, Y., "The Development and Characterization of a Conformal FDTD Method for Oblique Electromagnetic Structures," Ph.D. thesis, University of Bristol, UK., November 1998.
[88] Sani, A., Y. Zhao, A. Alomainy, Y. Hao, and C. Parini, "An Efficient FDTD Algorithm Based on the Equivalence Principle for Analyzing On-body Antenna Performance," IEEE Transactions on Antenna and Propagation, Vol. 57, No. 4, 2009, pp. 1006-1014.
[89] Y. Zhao, Y. Hao, and C. G. Parini, "FDTD Characterization of UWB Indoor Radio Channel Including Frequency Dependant Antenna Directivities," IEEE Antennas and Wireless Propagation Letters, Vol. 6, 2007, pp. 191-194.
[90] National Institute of Health National Library of Medicine (USA) Board of Regents, Bethesda, MD, Technical Report NIH 90-2197,1990, "Electronic Imaging: Board of Regents," http://www.brooks.af.mil/AFRL/HED/hedr/.
[91] Hao, Y., A. Alomainy, W. Song, C. G. Parini, P. S. Hall, Y. Nechayev, And C. Constantinou, "Numerical Modelling of On-body Radio Propagation Channel," Proceedings of IEEE AP-S, Washington, USA, July 2005.
[92] Weedon, W. H., and C. M. Rappaport, "A General Method for FDTD Modelling of Wave Propagation in Arbitrary Frequency Dispersive Media," IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 45, No. 3, March 1997.
[93] Zhao, Y., A. Sani, Y. Hao, S-L. Lee; and G-Z. Yang, "A Subject-specific Radio Propagation Study in Wireless Body Area Networks," Antennas and Propagation Conference, 2009, LAPC 2009. Loughborough, pp. 80-83.
[94] Sani, A., A. Alomainy, and Y. Hao, "Numerical Characterization and Link Budget Evaluation of Wireless Implants Considering Different Digital Human Phantoms," IEEE Transactions on Microwave Techniques and Theory, Biomedical Special Issue, Vol. 57, Issue 10, pp. 2605-2613.
[95] Sani, A., M. Rajab, R. Foster, and Y. Hao, "Antennas and Propagation of Implanted RFIDs for Pervasive Healthcare Applications," Proceedings of the IEEE, Vol. 98, Issue 9, September 2010, pp. 1648-1655.
[96] Sanz-Izquierdo, B., J. A. Miller, J. C. Batchelor, and M. I. Sobhy, "Dual-band Wearable Metallic Button Antenna and Transmission in Body Area Networks," IET Microwaves, Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 4, Issue 2, 2010, pp. 182-190.









CHAPTER 3
Antenna Design and Channel Characterization for On-Body Communications at Microwave Frequencies

Peter Hall, Yang Hao, Yuriy Nechayev, Akram Alomainy, Costas Constantinou, Clive Parini, Muhammad Kamarudin, Tareq Salim, and Simon Cotton
3.1 Introduction
The preface to this book and Chapter 1 have emphasized that on-body communications systems will take their place as one of the dimensions of personal and body area networks, and that this is an area of increasing interest. Body area networks (BANs) can be used to interconnect the various components in a wearable computer system. This system may be supporting a body sensor network for health monitoring or drug release, for personal entertainment or information delivery, or for occupational support. While these systems may use wires for their interconnection, whether untethered or built into a smart fabric, there is now a trend towards wireless interconnection. There are now examples of wireless modules being used in body sensor networks. In recent years, there has been a proliferation of research into both antennas and propagation for such interconnections. While it is easy to assume that such links will behave like those used in mobile communications, the differences are significant.
In conventional mobile communications systems between a mobile base station and a mobile terminal, variation in the channel is due to the interference between multiple rays scattered from the local environment, such as buildings in the outdoor case and walls or furniture in the indoor one. While local scattering will play a part in communications between two terminals mounted on the body, significant variations in the channel are also due to changes in the geometry of the body. Even when standing or sitting, the body is subject to many small movements. During normal activities, movement becomes significant; during more vigorous activities, such as playing a sport, movement may be extreme. Thus, characterization of radiowave propagation needs to account for both the variable positioning of the terminals on the body and for dramatic changes in the geometry of the local environment. Second, the local geometry changes may also affect the operation of the antenna, in particular, the input match and radiation pattern. Changes in the antenna and the propagation loss are operational considerations that must be understood during the design of the transceivers in order to enable maximum channel capacity and minimum power consumption.
The understanding and characterization of these issues form the key building blocks necessary to construct successful and optimal systems. To date, understanding is by no means complete, as some of the electromagnetic phenomena that are involved are similar to those encountered in low frequency propagation over the earth, and both the interpretation of the phenomena and the design of antennas are still being debated. Similarly, measurement techniques provide unique challenges that need to be addressed. For example, it has emerged that de-embedding the antenna is fraught with difficulty. However, there is now a much improved understanding of how the antenna interacts with the channel on the body; much channel data is now available, and this will give system designers useful information to construct less power hungry wireless channels.
The chapter is arranged as follows. To begin, some measurement problems are discussed, followed by presentation of some of the latest channel models. The performance of antennas for BANs is then described, both in terms of single and multiple antenna systems. Finally, discussion of some systems design advances is given.
3.2 Measurement Methods
Measurements of channels for body area networks involve the placement of antennas both on the human body and on objects close to the body, such as furniture or other bodies in the vicinity. There are two factors which make such a measurement different and, to some extent, more difficult than other types of channel measurements. Firstly, as noted in Section 2.5, changes of the body posture and movement can give rise to significant changes in the channel properties; of course, it is the purpose of the measurement process to capture these changes. Secondly, as noted in Section 3.1, it is hard to de-embed the propagation channel from the transmission channel. Therefore, the measurement is capturing both the channel and the antenna properties. In addition, the body is an object that is never still; while the body appears to move in regular or predictable ways, it is very difficult to repeat a measurement of a living body exactly. It can be argued that whole body phantoms can overcome this problem, but these have their own problems, as discussed in Chapter 2, both in terms of their reproduction of the precise electromagnetic conditions of a real body and the difficulty of making them move in realistic ways. Finally, while single measurements of channel path gain are of interest in understanding propagation mechanisms and in comparing results with those obtained from analytic or numerical methods, the system designer is primarily interested in models extracted from large numbers of measurements. Of course, errors in the measurement process that give rise to bias in these large sets are of fundamental importance, whereas errors in single measurements are of much less importance. Unfortunately, there are few studies on large data sets that fully establish the significance of measurement errors in the different methods. Sections 3.2.1 and 3.2.2 discuss some of these issues.
3.2.1 Connection Between Antenna and Measuring Instruments
In body-centric communications, at least one of the antennas in the link is mounted on the body. For off-body channels, a second antenna is located in the vicinity of the subject. For on-body channels, the second antenna is on the body itself. The measuring equipment may be close to the body or carried on the body. There are three primary methods for connecting the antennas to the measurement instruments used in channel measurements, namely metal cables, fibre optic cables, and miniaturized, self-contained wireless modules.
In the first, flexible or semiflexible coaxial cables are used to connect the antennas to a network analyzer, which might measure both phase and amplitude using a vector network analyzer (VNA) or just amplitude. VNAs are typically bench-mounted, and long cables are necessary to measure channels involving body movement. Cable losses are of the order of a decibels per meter at a few gigahertz for small diameter low-loss cable, for example, Rhophase® 115 Series. If phase is to be measured, then phase stable cables are also available. Figure 3.1 shows a typical VNA measurement arrangement. Small amplitude analyzers have been mounted in backpacks along with small laptop computers used for data collection, and short cables on the body are used. In this case, movement is less constrained and measurements can be made as the subject moves through a number of different environments. It is also important to prevent current flowing out over the antennacable connector, as radiation from such a cable current will distort the radiation pattern of the antenna. Traditionally, ferrite chokes can be used over a wide range of frequencies, although they are less effective at frequencies above 1 GHz [1].


Figure 3.1 On-body channel measurement with vector network analyzer (VNA) and cables.

Alternatively, absorbent material can be used to coat the cable near the connector. However, in both of these methods, the chokes or absorber may change the efficiency of the antenna, leading to bias errors in the path gain. Quarter-wavelength sleeve baluns do not have this problem; rather than absorbing the cable current, they present a high impedance to the current and are relatively narrowband [2].
In fiber optic systems, a radio to optic signal converter is placed between the antenna and the fiber, and at the point that the fiber is connected to the network analyzer. Typical optical microwave converters are shown in Figure 3.2. This converter will, in general, need its own power supply, and this may be provided by small on-board batteries. In principle, the advantage of this arrangement is that the radiation from currents flowing on the cable in the vicinity of the antenna and the scattering from the metal cable of the electromagnetic energy propagating around the body are both avoided. However, the converter size is an issue, and some commercial units may be larger than the intended sensor that the antenna may be supporting, and hence may lead to antenna pattern distortions unrepresentative of the final application. Converters up to around 30 GHz are available on the market. If a measurement of an on-body to off-body channel is being performed, only one fibre will be needed, with the off-body antenna connected through a cable. If the measurement is of an on-body channel, then two fibers are used. Typically, the fiber laser diode to fiber detector has a loss of the order of 30 to 40 dB. This is acceptable in a single fiber measurement, where the network analyzer may have enough dynamic range to make useful channel measurements. However, for a two fiber measurement, amplifiers are needed on one or both of the on-body fiber devices. Commercial converters incorporating amplifiers are available. For example, the Miteq® optical transmitter (SCML-50K6G) and Linphotonic® optical receiver, MiniPR, used in [3] and shown in Figure 3.2, have a nominal 0 dB gain between RF connectors, operates up to 18 GHz and the receiver is 40 mm long and has the diameter of an SMA connector but the overall size will increase due to the need for bias provision.


Figure 3.2 Optical Fiber based measurement system (a) optical receiver, with antenna and bias battery, and (b) optical transmitter.

Catherwood and Scanlon [3] describe extensive comparisons of measurements of an off-body channel, in which the body-mounted antenna was connected to a body-mounted pulse generator operating in the 3 to 6 GHz range, by either coaxial cable or a fiber-optical cable. The UWB on-body antenna was placed on the chest, and another was placed off of the body at a distance of about 3m. The transmitter was located on the back of the subject's belt. Measurements were made in an anechoic chamber, an office environment, and a reverberation chamber, which represented very low levels of multipath from local scattering, moderate, and very high scattering, respectively. For a stationary body posture and line of sight (LOS) between the antennas, in the anechoic chamber, path gains were on average 2 dB higher with the coaxial cable than with the fiber optic. When the body was rotated by 180°, to give a non-line of sight (NLOS) channel, coaxial cable path gains were on average 4 dB higher. This suggests that the cables are having a significant effect on the propagation in the vicinity of the body. In the office and reverberation chamber environments, the differences were much less marked, indicating that scattering from the local environment can, in some cases, become the dominant propagation mode and mask the effects of the cables. Extraction of signal delay confirms this. In the anechoic chamber for the LOS channel, average delays are similar. However, in the NLOS channel, average delay was nearly 40 ns longer for the coaxial cable, suggesting significant interaction between the antenna and the cable. Again, in the other environments, the delay spread differences were much less marked. In a similar experiment [4], two long cables were used to connect two antennas, both on the body, which formed an on-body channel. The measurement was done at 2.45 GHz for various channels, between the subject's belt and head. On average, the path gain was about 2 dB lower for the coaxial cables. In these measurements, repeatability was a significant problem and the day to day spread was found to be of the order of 4 dB.
Figure 3.3 shows a measurement set up using small, self-contained data logging receivers [5]. Each receiver in the wearable arrangement was a precalibrated Crossbow® Mica2Dot wireless sensor with a modified 3.6 V, 0.95 Ah lithium-thionyl chloride power supply unit and a normal-mode helical antenna mounted on a 25.4 mm diameter circular ground plane. A 10-bit on-board analogue to digital converter was used to quantize the received signal voltage from the sensor's Chipcon® CC1000 RF chip. The sensors were attached to a 3 mm thick, 80% polychloroprene/20% nylon contoured jacket with sewn-on mounting pads. The jacket was tight-fitting to minimize spurious antenna-body separation effects.


Figure 3.3 On-body transmitter (TX) and right-head (RH), left-head (LH), front right-chest (FRC), front-left-chest (FLC), front-right-wrist (FRW), front-right ankle (FRA), and back-right-chest (BRC) receiver positions [5].

3.2.2 Antenna De-embedding
It is desirable, in the context of design of communications systems for body-centric systems, to be able to extract the properties of the propagation channel from the transmission channel. The transmission channel is that between the terminals of the two antennas, and includes both the antenna and propagation properties. If this can be done, then the propagation models become much more useful and more widely applicable, as the designer can then deduce the transmission channel performance from the models and knowledge of the performance of the antennas that he or she intends to use. Alternatively, it becomes much easier for the designer to adapt an antenna design to give a set of desirable transmission channel properties. There are cases where such separation of the antenna and channel properties is performed; for example, when the channel is line of sight or has properties that can be described by a single ray. Satellite and point-to-point microwave links are examples. Here, an approach based on the Friis expression can be used [6]. In the sphere of mobile communications, where channels contain significant multipath, it is much more difficult, except in certain circumstances [7]. In the body-centric application, it is hard to do this extraction for a number of reasons and, in most practical cases, it is not done. The current position is that there are a number of models for both on- and off-body channels that are presented for specific sets of antennas, some of which are discussed in Section 3.3 for the narrowband channels, and in Chapter 5 for wideband ones. These models, rather than giving direct data to the systems designer, indicate in broad terms what might be encountered in body-centric channels. If the designer needs more accurate models, he or she must become involved in some channel measurement or simulation. This section discusses the problems of de-embedding body-worn antennas from the channel.
De-embedding can be investigated by examining a simple model of the channel. The transmission channel path gain T is given by


(3.1)

where θ, ϕ, and θ', ϕ' are the spherical coordinates at the transmit and receive ends of the link, respectively. Gθ and Gϕ, and Gθ, and Gϕ, are the angular gain functions in the θ and ϕ polarizations, respectively, of the transmit and receive antennas, respectively. Pθθ' and Pϕϕ' represent the coupling through the propagation channels in the θ and ϕ polarizations, respectively, and Pθϕ' and Pθ'ϕ represent the channel depolarization coupling. To allow de-embedding, the equation needs to be inverted, to extract the P matrix, from knowledge of T and the Gs. In free space, one would expect that Pθθ' = Pϕϕ', and Pθϕ' = Pθ'ϕ = 0. However, for antennas close to the human body these approximations are not true. For example, the boundary conditions on the surface of the human body suggest that the coupling in the two polarizations will be different, particularly so for areas where a surface wave may be strongly excited, but also for channels with a significant portion of space wave component. The body curvature and local scattering also suggest that depolarization will be significant. Multipath propagation means that the coupling coefficients will involve propagation in a variety of directions, related to the ray bundle directions, and hence the antenna gains must include the gains in those directions. Alternatively, (3.1) is rewritten with the right-hand side replaced by a summation over all the ray bundles in their various directions. It is also necessary, in general, to characterize the channel for the body in a variety of postures to include movement effects. In this case, (3.1) becomes time-variant, and to include ensemble averages, which in general terms cannot then be solved.
Akhoondzadeh-Asl [8] describes the demonstration of a possible de-embedding process for on-body channels. Measurements of the transmission channel were made on two subjects, a female (height: 160 cm, weight: 54 kg) and a male (height: 178 cm, weight: 72 kg) inside an anechoic chamber at 2.45 GHz. Antennas were placed on the right hand side of each subject's belt, 100 mm away from the center, and on the right side of each subject's chest, approximately 6 cm from the surface; each antenna was connected to a vector network analyzer with 2m long flexible coaxial cables. The distance between the antennas was 35 cm on the female and 38 cm on the male. A standing posture was adopted by each subject. The de-embedding process involved taking four different measurements of the transmission channel path gain, with two different types of antennas strongly polarized in the directions normal (or vertical, V) and parallel (or horizontal, H) to the body surface. The measurements involved the antenna combinations, V-V, H-H, V-H and H-V. The choice of these antennas was critical to the stable solution of (3.1), which used a least squares method. In the solution process, free space antenna gains were used, which had been determined separately. Monopoles, loops, planar inverted F antennas, and planar dipoles were tried, with some combinations giving ill conditioned solutions. Table 3.1 gives the results for monopole, dipole, and PIFA combinations.

Table 3.1 P Matrix Components (dB) for Belt-to-Chest Channel
The table shows that in general, Pθθ', which is the component polarized normal to the body surface, is the largest component. The free-space path gain for the female is -31.1 dB. The component parallel to the surface, Pϕϕ', is of the order of 35 dB lower, and lower than the depolarization components. Maximum differences between measurements with the two different antenna combinations are of the order of 3 dB at -30 dB path loss and 6 dB at −55 dB. The same process was done for a belt-to-head channel for both subjects, with the antenna mounted on the right side of the head. The variation of the components with the rotation angle of the head was examined. Figure 3.4 shows the results, where positions 1 through 5 represent rotation of the head in 45º steps from looking right to looking left. When the subject's head is looking right (position 1), the polarization directions θ and θ' are aligned, whereas when the subject's head is looking left (position 5), they are 180º apart and the channel is heavily shadowed by the head. As the head moves from right to left, Pθθ' and Pϕϕ' reduces by approximately 20 and 10 dB, respectively, and the two depolarization components change by similar amounts but peak in the forward looking position when the θ and φ directions align. In general, channels associated with the trunk are dominated by the vertically polarized component, but in channels with significant body movement, then all components may be significant. It is also clear that de-embedding can give some insights into channel depolarization effects.


Figure 3.4 Propagation channel components with head position for belt to head channel (a) Pθθ, (b) Pθϕ, (c) Pϕθ, and (d) Pϕϕ (1 = head looking right, other positions advance head rotation by 45º, so 5 = head looking left).

3.3 Body-Centric Channel Measurement and Modeling
Most of the propagation studies reported in the literature take an empirical approach. Various on-body propagation channels are measured while the test subject either accepts a certain posture or performs a certain movement. These measurements are usually performed in an indoor environment, although anechoic and outdoor environments have also been researched.
Most researchers have used a network analyzer for transmission loss measurements. This approach has an advantage of high accuracy and dynamic range provided by such instruments. However, as noted in Section 3.2.1, the disadvantage is that the antennas have to be connected to the analyzer by coaxial cables, which can distort the measurement results. In order to circumvent this problem, a few research groups have used fiber optics to connect the antennas to the analyzer. Others employed small wearable transmitters and receivers to measure propagation path loss.
A large number of propagation studies have been devoted to ultrawideband (UWB) propagation channels, as UWB is a good candidate for future BAN standards, providing high data rates in on-body as well as in-body communication links. Channel measurement and modeling in the UWB band is described in Chapter 5. Existing BAN standards utilize a number of narrow frequency bands, such as 400 MHz and 2.45 GHz. Propagation channels at these frequencies have also been studied along with some other license-free bands, and these are described in this chapter.
Measurements in various ISM frequency bands have been undertaken, mostly by research groups in the United Kingdom, Belgium, Japan, and Australia. Early work established path gain performance and models [9-14], followed by much work on channel statistics [15-32] and more recent work on time domain and autocorrelation methods [34, 36]. The majority of these studies have been concerned with the 2.45 to GHz ISM band, due to its existing use in early systems, such as Bluetooth® headsets. It was found that the polarization perpendicular to the surface of the body produces a stronger signal, which is attributed to the fact that the creeping, or surface, waves supported by the human body are polarized this way, while tangentially polarized waves attenuate quickly, as they propagate around the body. Additionally, perpendicularly polarized antennas are usually less prone to the effects of the body, such as detuning and efficiency reduction.
3.3.1 Path Gain
Depending on the position of the antennas, propagation in the vicinity of the human body at microwave frequencies is either through one or more space waves, or a surface or creeping wave. The former is the case when there is a direct LOS between the two antennas, and the latter case occurs when the antennas are shadowed. This is demonstrated by the graph of on-body path gain versus the conformal distance between the antennas [9], as shown in Figure 3.5. The antennas were quarter-wavelength monopoles of 25 × 2 mm copper wire over an 80 mm diameter ground plane of 0.4 mm thick copper. They were attached on the body at a number of positions and orientations, and spaced from the body by a 1 cm thick block of expanded polystyrene, to model the position of a typical worn antenna. The antennas were connected to the calibrated VNA by two 5m long flexible coaxial cables. The subject (height: 1.78m, weight: 72 kg) was standing on a concrete floor inside of an anechoic chamber.


Figure 3.5 On-body path gain variation with antenna separation at 2.4 GHz [9].

Two types of path gain variation with the distance can be roughly distinguished based on the propagation scenario, namely, variation in the illuminated region and in the shadow region. The data points for the illuminated region scenario, in which it is assumed that there is LOS propagation, are shown in Figure 3.5 by "+"signs. The path gain of the antennas in free space in the ground plane direction relative to each other, given by the Friis formula, is also shown for comparison as a solid line. The figure shows that most of the LOS data points follow the free space curve but are generally below it with the mean difference between the measured and theoretical values of −5.33 dB. Thus, the path gain in the illuminated region at 2.45 GHz is given by the formula:


(3.2)

The standard deviation of the difference between the measured LOS values and those given by this formula is 4.2 dB. This deviation can be attributed to the mutual orientation of the antennas, which are not normally copolarized and in the boresight direction of each other. Occasionally, this leads to very large (up to 25 dB) discrepancies between the data and the free space curve. The complexity of determining the relative orientation of the antennas along the on-body propagation path renders it impractical to attempt a more accurate theoretical prediction model, as the radiation pattern contribution and polarization mismatch could not be measured sufficiently accurately.
The data points represented by circles in Figure 3.5 correspond to the scenarios when there was no LOS between the antennas, and the dominant propagation path corresponded to a creeping wave propagating around the body. Generally speaking, the distance variation of such a wave is fairly complex and depends on a number of parameters. For example, the distance variation is different on the free space sections of the propagation path and on the sections conformal to the body. However, because the human body has a complex geometry, which is highly variable between individuals, tracing propagation paths around it is difficult and often inaccurate. Nevertheless, the non-LOS data points do appear to follow a trend shown as a straight line in the figure. This trend corresponds to an exponential attenuation according to the following linear regression formula:


(3.3)

where d is the antenna separation distance represented in centimeters and Gp is the path gain in decibels. The actual data points are spread around this line with a standard deviation of 5.6 dB.
A number of propagation scenarios from in Figure 3.5 could not be clearly identified as either LOS or non-LOS because the receiving antenna was very close to the shadow boundary. Therefore, with a slight change of body posture, it could become either obstructed (completely or partially) or unobstructed by a body part such as trunk or arm. These transition data points are shown in Figure 3.5 as x-marks. Some of them seem to follow the same trend as the LOS data while others are clustered together with the non-LOS data points.
A model for the path loss variation with the distance and frequency was derived at the National Institute of Information and Communications Technology (NICT) in Japan [26] for frequencies between 400 MHz to 2.4 GHz, using half wave dipole and half wave colinear type antennas, on a subject who keep a static standing posture in an anechoic chamber. Figure 3.6 shows the antenna positions used together with typical medical applications for the sensors at various points. Figure 3.7 shows typical measurement that were then fitted to a simple model of the form:


(3.4)

where GP is the path loss in decibels, x is a variable that can be either distance in milimeters or frequency in megahertz, and α and β are the inclination and intercept coefficients, respectively. Table 3.2 shows the model parameters, together with a correlation coefficient, which is measure of the fit between the model and the measured data.


Figure 3.6 Antenna positions for path gain model of [26] (• = Coordinator antenna, o = sensor antenna).



Figure 3.7 Path gain versus distance and extracted model at 2,400 [26](X = measured ----- approximation).


Table 3.2 Parameters for Model of Path Loss Versus Distance
From: [26].

It is interesting to compare the model parameters for 2.4 GHz given by Table 3.2 with those given by (3.2). The parameter α relates primarily to the attenuation of energy in the propagation path. It can be seen that the values are very different; the value from (3.2) is −20 and the value from Table 3.2 is -47. It should be noted that very different antennas are used in the two measurements; namely, half-wave dipoles and monopoles, respectively. It is assumed that the dipoles were placed parallel to the body surface, and thus radiated an electric field parallel the body surface. The monopoles were polarized perpendicularly. The different propagation behaviors for different antenna types have been highlighted earlier in Section 3.2.2, and are also discussed in Sections 3.3.3 and 3.4.2. The parameter β relates primarily to the antenna gain and the way the antenna couples to the propagation mode. The efficiency of dipole antennas mounted parallel to the body surface will be considerably reduced by the attenuation of the body tissue. At a distance of 100 mm, (log10d = 2), GP ≈ −25 and −30 for (3.2) and Table 3.2, respectively, suggesting a coupling and efficiency difference of 5 dB between the two antennas. Models of frequency dependence have also been derived, as shown in Table 3.3.

Table 3.3 Parameters for Model of Path Loss Versus Frequency
From: [26].

Path models for channels around the torso are given in [12, 13], and loss was found to increase exponentially in the shadow region. Various path loss models were discussed and compared, namely:


(3.5)



(3.6)



(3.7)



(3.8)

where PdB is the path loss measured around the body and nP is a zero mean unit variance Gaussian random variable representing the variation in a large number of measurements. Equation (3.5) is similar to (3.4), with a variation term added. Equation (3.6) represents exponential loss expected for diffraction around an infinite perfectly conducting cylinder, and is incorporated into the IEEE 802.15.4a standard [33]. Equation (3.8) is recommended in [12] and represents exponential fall off, followed by a flat saturation point due to the energy received from multipath reflections off nearby scatterers. Maximum likelihood estimates of the parameters of (3.8) have been determined for two frequencies using low-profile Skycross® SMT- 8TO25-MA antennas connected to a VNA by 4m long low loss flexible coaxial cables moved progressively around the torso of a standing subject. Table 3.4 gives the parameters.

Table 3.4 Model Parameters for (3.8) for Around-Torso Channel
From: [12].

Estimates of the angle of arrival of ray bundles in an on-body channel [37] show relatively few primary directions. Using a switched beam antenna operating in two dimensions only at 2.45 GHz, directions were established for belt to head, wrist, and ankle channels.
3.3.2 Channel Statistics
The on-body channels were found to fade significantly as the user moved while performing various everyday activities. There are several possible reasons for the fading. It could be due to the changing distance between the antennas; changing orientations of the antennas relative to each other and the body; due to shadowing by body parts; or it could be caused by the cancellation of several multipath components arriving at the receiver, scattered by the body itself or by the local environment. Unlike the cellular network communications, in which the multipath fading is much faster than the other types of fading, in body area network scenarios, the temporal scale of multipath fading was found to be much more similar to the scale of variation of shadowing and the other types of "slow" fading. Nevertheless, it was possible to separate two types of fading (i.e., short-term and long-term fading). The former was found to follow a Rician [12, 32] or a Nakagami-m [12, 23, 24] probability distribution, while the latter was best described by a lognormal distribution [12, 16, 28, 32]. At a given frequency, the best fitting statistical model and its parameters are dependent on the channel, the subject, the antenna, and its orientation. This is illustrated in Table 3.5 [32], which shows for parameters for two subjects and various antennas, the variation in best fit parameters found using a maximum likelihood estimation method. Figure 3.8(a) shows the belt to head and belt to wrist channels characterized, along with the inclination angle of the antennas, ϕ for the transmit antenna and ϕ' for the receiver. Figure 3.8(b) shows the office environment in which the subject walked. Figure 3.9 shows the various antennas used. In Tables 3.5 and 3.6, the Rician parameters are s, σ, and K, which characterize the strongest ray power, s2, the average scattered power, 2σ2, and the ratio of the power in the strongest ray to the average scattered power, K = s2/2σ2, respectively. The lognormal parameters are mean, μ, and the standard deviation, σL. For the belt-to-head channel, it can be seen that the Rician K factor is very dependent on antenna type and its orientation, with differences of more than 4 dB. This is primarily dependent on whether the antennas have their direction of maximum radiation pointing at each other or not. If they are, then the strongest ray power is increased and the scattering is reduced. For antennas with more omnidirectional patterns, like the loop, orientation is much less important. For the belt-to-wrist channel, the K value for the monopole is high because the monopoles' polarization normal to the body surface helps to maintain a strong ray diffracted around the body.


Figure 3.8 Measured propagation channels: (a) antenna positions on body and (b) office environment used in the measurements [32].



Figure 3.9 Antennas used for derivation of statistical models [32]. (a) Top-loaded monopole, (b) PIFA (top plate height = 5 mm), (c) printed IFA, (d) printed loop, and (e) printed dipole. (Metallization on the top of the substrate is shown in black, on the underside in gray, and substrate boundaries are shown by thin black lines.)


Table 3.5 Parameters of Statistical Models for Short-Term and Long-Term Fading in Belt-to-Head Channel
From: [32].


Table 3.6 Parameters of Statistical Models for Short-Term and Long-Term Fading in Belt-to-Wrist Channel
For the long-term fading, the range of standard deviations is relatively small, from 1.3 to 2.8 dB. The mean, on the other hand, has large differences. It is the highest for the monopoles in both channels and is at least 10 dB lower for other antennas. PIFAs are the second best performing antennas on the wrist in terms of both the mean PG and K value. Polarization of a PIFA is also normal to the body surface. However, its low profile leads to higher shadowing losses and efficiency reductions in the proximity of the body. In the head channel, IFAs give the mean PG similar to that of PIFAs when φ' = −40º, but a large proportion of the received power is due to scattering from the environment. Therefore, IFAs give the K value about 3 dB lower, and hence, lead to stronger fading. The low mean PG for the IFA, loop, and dipole are believed to be due to their polarization being parallel to the body surface, and thus, not coupling well to the surface or creeping wave propagation mode, in addition to their efficiency being significantly reduced by the proximity of the body. The relatively high radiation away from the body in the IFA and loop case also give rise to comparable levels of scattering, resulting in K values around 0 dB.
To obtain greater insight into the propagation mechanisms present on the body, the strongest ray power and scattering power were extracted for the period of one walking pace in an anechoic and office environment [32]. Figures 3.10 and 3.11 show variation of values s2 and 2σ2 for the head and wrist channels as the subject walks. These are shown for two walking styles, with and without arm movement, and the two measured environments, so that both the parameters σB and σE can be estimated assuming that σ2 = σB2 in the anechoic chamber, and σ2 = σB2 + σE2 in the office. The abrupt variation of the parameter s in Figure 3.10(a) is probably due to parameter estimation errors noticeable when s is small.


Figure 3.10 Rician parameter variation with time during walking movement for belt-to-head channel [32]. (a) Strongest ray power, s2, and (b) average scattered power, 2σ2.



Figure 3.11 Rician parameter variation with time during walking movement for belt-to-wrist channel [32].(a) Strongest ray power, s2, and (b) average scattered power, 2σ2.

Figure 3.10(b) shows that scattering from the office environment dominates scattering from the body itself in the head channel. On the other hand, it can be seen from the chamber results in Figure 3.10 that s2 also dominates 2σB2. Therefore, when modeling this channel, the effect of the body scattering can be neglected compared to the contributions from the strongest path and environmental scattering. Scattering from the environment appears to be the main contributor to the received power in this channel, except in the interval around 0.6 s, when the right arm is held forward providing a strong reflected path. Comparing the curves for the two walking styles in the chamber in Figure 3.10(b) demonstrates the presence of the multipath around the body when arms are moving, which could become significant in a less reflective environment.
For the wrist channel when there is no arm movement, the direct ray dominates scattering from both the body and the office environment by at least 10 dB, as can be seen from Figure 3.11(a). Besides, σE dominates σB by about 5 dB, as comparison of the chamber and office curves in Figure 3.11(b) shows. In this case, σB can also be neglected as in the case of the head channel. However, when the arm with the antenna moves forward (time before 1 s) s decreases, since the direct path is obstructed by the arm wearing the antenna. On the other hand, the scattering from the body increases and can become even stronger than that from the environment. The same effect is also present and is even stronger when the arm moves back (time after 1 s) and the direct path is well obstructed by the body while other paths around the body become stronger.
Second-order statistics, such as level crossing rate (LCR) and average fade duration (AFD), as well as the Doppler spread spectrum, were investigated in [17, 23, 24, 32]. The Doppler spread was found to be less than about 16 Hz. A representative plot of the LCR and AFD is shown in Figure 3.12 [24]. In general, the level crossing rate is less than 1 Hz and a Nakagami model provides a good fit. For practical, normalized signal levels, average fade duration is less than 1 s, and again, a Nakagami model provides a reasonable fit.


Figure 3.12 Normalized empirical (dotted) and simulated (solid) level crossing rate (LCR Hz) and average fade duration (AFD s) for the belt-to-right-head channel while the user was mobile in an open office area [24]. (Frequency 2.45 GHz. Curves with Rice, etc., labels are LCR and the other set is AFD. MLE predicted parameters for the models are Nakagami m = 1.35, Ω = 1.29, Rice A = 0.85, s = 0.53, and lognormal μ = −0.08, σ = 0.52.)

For naturalistic movement around an office or home environment, the channel variations were found to be nonstationary, so that the parameters of both the short-term and long-term fading change with time. This then gives rise to problems in creating a suitable statistical model. Some attempts to fit naturalistic movement on-body fading data to a single probability distribution have also been made in [18]. In [30, 31], a three-state Fritchman model was suggested to characterize channel fading. Channels similar to those in Figure 3.6 were measured in three states: standing still, walking, and sitting down, using a channel sounder at 4.5 GHz. The results from each channel in the moving tests were normalized to those in the stationary, and then compared to a threshold of −10 dB, to predict error free or error communication. From the cumulative distribution function, it was seen that nearly 90% of error periods were less than 10 ms, whilst none of the error periods lasted more than 400 ms. Defining three channel states as:

S1: unstable error-free state (an error-free channel shorter than 400 ms);
S2: constant error-free state (an error-free channel longer than 400 ms);
S3: error state.

A three state Fritchman model, corresponding to these states is shown in Figure 3.13. The state of on-body channels at sample time is given by:


(3.9)



Figure 3.13 Three-state Fritchman model for on-body channels [30, 31].

where Π0 it the initial state and A is the state transition matrix Π0 and A are determined from the measured data as

This model is thus a description of the channel at an error level, and is directly related to back off and retransmission strategies in a network. It can also be used to present a map of on-body fading characteristics, and the two shown in Figure 3.14 are given in the paper. Figure 3.14(a) confirms that the on-body fading depends on antenna positions and action scenarios. Positions G and E are totally free from fading. Positions A, B, F, and H experience fading during one of the two dynamic scenarios. Other positions experience fading during both dynamic scenarios. Figure 3.14(b) shows the positions of error-free states. Positions A, C, D, and J experience state S1 during two dynamic scenarios, while other positions always remain in state S2. This can be partially attributed to the fact that all of the positions-B, F, H, and I-are on the body trunk. They, therefore, undergo relatively small movement variations in amplitude. It is, however, unexpected to see positions C and D (which were located on the head) sustain severe fading, considering that they were relatively static in the considered dynamic scenarios. This might be due to involuntary head movements during actions.


Figure 3.14 Map of on-body fading characteristics [30, 31]. (Positions and applications as Figure 3.6. • = Coordinator antenna; o= sensor antenna. (Courtesy of K. Min, Tokyo Institute of Technology, Japan.)

An alternative method of fitting naturalistic data is to determine the autocorrelation and cross-correlation of the fading envelopes [23, 34, 36]. The autocorrelation function was found to be periodic in an anechoic or outdoor environment, with the period of the body movements. In an indoor environment, the autocorrelation was weak, showing the importance of the surroundings. Fading at different on-body positions was found to be strongly cross-correlated when the body was stationary. However, the correlation reduced when the body was moving and was particularly small in the indoor environment. Autoregression models for simulating on-body fading envelopes has been proposed in [36]. The autocorrelation and cross-correlation between different inter-body channels at 868 MHz was thoroughly investigated in [23], together with the fading distribution and other parameters of these channels in a search-and-rescue operation scenario.
The time delay spread of narrowband channels has not received a lot of attention in the literature, although in [12] it was found to be on the order of a few tens of nanoseconds in the worst case, which is much less than the symboling rates of Bluetooth® or ZigBee®, and therefore confirms the validity of narrowband approximation for these systems.
3.3.3 Channel Polarization Effects
Depolarization in the on-body channel can occur due to a number of reasons. For example, the orientation of the antennas may change as the body moves. Scattering from the body and the surrounding environment may also be responsible. The coupling of the antennas to the propagation mode may also give polarization changes, such as the coupling of a horizontal dipole to the vertically polarized surface wave mode. In this section, it should be noted that "vertical" and "horizontal" refer to the orientation of an antenna or electric field relative to the surface of the human body at the point of interest. In absolute terms, these orientations may be different at either end of the channel. Cross-polarization discrimination (XPD) has been used to represent depolarization in mobile propagation channels [38], and is defined as:


(3.10)



(3.11)



(3.12)



(3.13)

where <P> is the mean value of the received signal power for given source and receiver polarizations, and V or H subscripts are representative of the source polarization, and V' or H' of the receiver polarization. For example, VH' means that the source antenna is vertically polarized relative to the body surface and the receiver is horizontally polarized. Therefore, there are four XPD terms. As is depicted in Figure 3.15, (3.10) represents polarization rotation from vertical to horizontal. Equation (3.11) is the same channel, but in the opposite direction. Equation (3.12) is the rotation from horizontal to vertical, and (3.13) is the same as (3.12) but in the opposite direction. In general, the polarization rotation may not be the same in both directions, as the rotation may depend on the local environment around the antennas, which may be different. Larger polarization rotation, or depolarization, will result in a smaller XPD value, and vice versa.


Figure 3.15 Visualizations of the definitions of cross-polarization discrimination (XPD) [39]. (a) XVV'-VH', (b) XVV'-HV', (c) XHH'-VH', (d) XHH'-HV'.

Measurement of cross-polarization discrimination presents some difficulties. In particular, antennas with well-defined polarizations with omnidirectional patterns are needed, as launching into a variety of rays in the multipath environment with controlled polarization is also required. It is important to make simultaneous measurements of both polarizations at each end of the channel in order to avoid errors that occur in changing singly polarized antennas. For this reason, a dual polarized antenna is preferred. An integrated two port loop-monopole antenna was developed for use on the body at 2.45 GHz [8, 39], as shown in Figure 3.16. Channel measurements were done on a 160 cm height and 54-kg female moving through a 7.5m × 9m sized laboratory containing equipment, tables, chairs, and computers. The transmitter antenna was fixed at the left side of the belt 100 mm away from the body center line, and the receiving antenna was placed at different positions. These positions included the right side of the head, right side of the chest, center of the back, right wrist, and right ankle positions. The distance between the body and the antennas placed on the body was approximately 7 to 10 mm, including the clothing. The coaxial cables were fixed in a way to reduce the coaxial cable effect during body movement. To feed the transmitting antennas, a signal generator operating at 2.45 GHz was connected to the two antenna ports via an RF switch. A vector network analyzer, in dual port receive mode, was used to receive signal from the receiving antenna. Simulations of small elementary antennas on a homogenous full body phantom (height: 170 cm) were also performed in CST Microwave Studio®.


Figure 3.16 Integrated loop-monopole antenna used for cross-polarization discrimination measurements [8, 39].

Figure 3.17 shows that XVV'-VH' ≠ XVV'-HV' and that XVV'-VH' ≠ XVV'-HV' for both measurement and simulation. As noted above, this is expected and represents the differences in the effect on the antennas of the local environment at each end of the channel. It can also be seen that XVV'-VH' and XVV'-HV' have high values, while the other two are much smaller for both the measurement and simulated results. The high values result from the first term in (3.10) and (3.11) being much larger than the second, and vice versa for the other terms. This is due to the mean of vertically polarized to vertically polarized antenna combination being significantly higher than that for the horizontally polarized antennas. This separation of the pairs of XPDs is a feature of on-body channels due to the boundary conditions on the body surface favoring the vertical polarization. In general, a vertically polarized antenna will experience little depolarization in the channel, whereas a horizontally polarized one will. This is due primarily to currents induced in the body tissue by the horizontal source coupling strongly into a vertically polarized electric field in the antenna vicinity. This phenomenon is further discussed in Section 3.4.2. It should be noted that the scales used for the simulation and measurements are different. The difference between the pair of XPD terms just discussed is reduced in the measurements due to the increased polarization rotation due to body movement and the presence of external scatterers. The simulations were made on a stationary body in an anechoic environment.


Figure 3.17 Cross-polarization discrimination (XPD) for various on body channels [8, 39]. Solid lines = XVV'-VH'; dashed lines = XVV'-HV'; dotted lines= XHH'-VH'; chain = XHH'-HV'. (a) Simulation and (b) measurement.

The belt-to-head channel generally shows low XPD values, which implies high depolarization, because the antennas on the belt and the side of the head are orthogonal to each other. On the other hand, the antennas on the belt-ankle and belt-chest stay aligned even during body motion, giving little depolarization and hence higher XPD.
3.4 Antenna Design
There are many types of antennas used for body-centric communications. These can be grouped into antennas for lower frequencies, microwave frequencies, and higher frequencies. Low frequency antennas are described in Chapter 4. There are few examples of millimetric antennas on the human body. Similarly, antennas can be classified into those for narrowband or wideband applications; for use on the body surface or in implants; and those made using conventional manufacturing materials and processes, and those make using textile materials. Wideband antennas are covered in Chapter 5, implant antennas in Chapter 9, and textile antennas in Chapter 6. This section discusses microwave narrowband nontextile antennas.
3.4.1 Performance Comparison
Antenna types can be conveniently divided into those that are planar and single layered, such as the dipole or planar inverted L antennas; those that are planar but multilayered, such as the planar inverted F antenna and the patch; and those that are not inherently planar, such as the monopole mounted normal to the body surface. In principle, the first type of antenna is ideal for body mounting, being planar and easily integrated with sensors, clothing or made covert. In general, studies have shown that antennas with significant vertically oriented currents give best path gain. Performances of various antennas in on body channels have been compared in [32, 40, 41]. The following antennas have all been demonstrated on the human body, loops and omnidirectional antennas [42, 43]: inverted Fs [44], planar inverted Fs [45], vertical split ring resonators [46], cavity slots [47], antennas on electromagnetic bandgap materials [42, 46, 48], patches [49, 50, 51], switched patches [52], patches with a parasitic wall [53], buttonlike monopoles [54-57], and parasitic dipole arrays [58].
Figure 3.18 shows the antennas used in one study [40], which include dipole, monopole, loop, inverted L, parasitic L, and wiggle antenna, all built in a planar form and mounted on the body parallel to the surface. The operating frequency was 2.45 GHz.


Figure 3.18 Planar antenna types used in the study [40].

The free-space performance of the antennas was compared to that mounted on the body, through simulation on the Hugo whole body phantom and CST Microwave Studio. Table 3.7 shows the free-space gain and radiation efficiency, and it can be seen in all cases except the wiggle antenna, that efficiency is very high. The wiggle antenna looses efficiency due to the radiating element being electrically smaller than the other types. Table 3.8 shows the performance at distances from the body of 1, 4, and 8 mm and various positions. Gain varies widely between body positions, due to the underlying variations in tissue type and the different surface shape. In some cases, it is higher than the free-space value and in others lower. In general, efficiency is always much lower, as it is typically between 30 and 40%.

Table 3.7 Antenna Type Size and Performance in Free Space
From: [40].


Table 3.8 Gain and Efficiency of Antenna Types on Body
From: [40].

In another study [32], monopole antennas with vertical conductors normal to a ground plane itself parallel to the body surface were found to provide the lowest path loss of all types of antennas. Table 3.9 shows mean path gain for the antennas shown in Figure 3.9 for two different channels. The measurement details are given in Section 3.2.2. Planar inverted-F antennas (PIFA) were the second best in terms of performance. This makes them a convenient compromise between the good performance and compact size required for wearable antennas. Other types of planar antennas either suffer from higher losses due to body tissue absorption, (e.g., dipoles, loops, or printed-F antennas.

Table 3.9 Mean Path Gain for Various Antennas
From: [32].

The loop and monopole give omnidirectional patterns with maximum radiation along the surface, but with H and E fields normal to the surface respectively. Such patterns will be suitable for paths where the surface wave dominates. However, the monopole has a polarization that matches that of the surface wave, while the loop is orthogonal.
It is clear that a quarter-wavelength monopole is a suitable type for many onbody links, since it has both an omnidirectional pattern-which obviates the need for correct orientation-and a polarization vertical to the body surface. However, this monopole is probably too big for practical implementation. Figure 3.19 shows a reduced-height monopole formed by top-loading the monopole with a disc. The radiation pattern in the elevation plane of this antenna compared to the full-height quarter-wavelength monopole is shown in Figure 3.20.


Figure 3.19 Disc-loaded, reduced-height monopole [32]. Disc = 13×0.55 mm; monopole = 17 × 3 mm diameter; ground plane 20 × 0.55 mm copper sheet and frequency = 2.45GHz.



Figure 3.20 Simulated E-plane radiation patterns of antennas of Figure 3.18 [32]. (a) Disc-loaded monopole, and (b) quarter-wavelength monopole. Solid = in free space; dotted = in contact with body phantom.

Wearable monopole antennas have been proposed [54-57]. Those in [54, 55] are called button antennas and both single band and dual band have been designed. The concept is shown in Figure 3.21 and the dimensions to estimate the overall size are tabulated in Table 3.10, with others given in the paper. It consists of disc 1 and cylinder 2, which have diameters d1 and d2, respectively; cylinder 2 has height h2. At the top of the button antenna are two air-spaced discs (diameters d3 and d4) separated by honeycomb for rigidity. The central section of the antenna consists of an air-filled cylinder (diameter d2) containing a coaxially located conducting post that connects the upper disc 4 to the base disc 1. The antenna has similar dimensions and weight to a standard jeans button and is mounted on a flexible Velcro® substrate of height h1 that is backed by a metallic ground plane of 5.0 cm × 5.0 cm. Feeding is via a side-connected microstrip line (width 7 mm) attached to the edge of disc 1.


Figure 3.21 Dual-band button antenna [55].


Table 3.10 Dimensions of Dual-Band Button Antenna
Microstrip patch antennas are very convenient for on-body applications due to their small thickness. They give strong radiation in the direction away from the surface, and thus are suitable for off-body channels. A higher mode microstrip patch antenna (HMMPA) has been designed that excites creeping waves along the direction tangential to the body surface and thus provides a path loss around the torso only 3 dB larger than a monopole [51]. A beam-switching antenna [52] for both on-body and off-body communication modes in body-centric wireless systems has also been shown. The off-body channel is concerned with communication between a device on the body and a remote location. Example applications include short range communications between two fire and rescue personnel, or the transmission of medical data from a wireless sensor body area network to a remote station. The on-body channel exists where there is a need for communication between devices located on, or within, the user's body. For example, in telemedicine applications where biosensors are implanted in the body, a wearable sensor is often located on the body to act as a relay between the biosensors and a nonlocal station several meters away from the user. In such applications, it is clear that both propagating modes will be required. The prototype of the antenna is shown in Figure 3.22.


Figure 3.22 Beam-switching patch antenna and its field distribution in two operation modes [52].

The antenna is constructed from two patch elements over a common ground plane with a single microstrip feed line. The upper patch is excited at the fundamental mode when off-body propagation is required. The lower (higher mode) patch is activated for the on-body mode. A simple SPDT RF switch is used to select the operating mode. The figure shows the simulated electrical field distribution for both on-body and off-body modes at 2.45 GHz. The antenna is also low SAR, with a peak 10g averaged SAR of 0.66 W/kg and 0.56 W/kg for the on-body and off-body modes, respectively (0.5W rms source power).
A novel antenna, which applies principles of the Yagi-Uda array to dipoles placed parallel to a body surface, was proposed in [58]. This antenna exploits the fact that a dipole near a surface launches both a horizontally and vertically polarized surface waves in along its axis. The horizontally polarized wave attenuates very quickly. The excitation of the vertically polarized wave is believed to be due to currents induced in the lossy tissue. The relatively low excitation of this wave, compared to antennas with vertically polarized currents is compensated by using a number of parasitic reflectors and directors. The geometry of the array is shown in Figure 3.23(a). A simulation of the electric field, perpendicular to the surface of a muscle phantom, is shown in Figure 3.23(b). Clear evidence of directivity in the -x direction can be seen. Despite being flat, a pair of these antennas produces channel path losses similar to those of a pair of quarter wavelength monopoles.


Figure 3.23 Surface wave Yagi antenna and near field on a muscle phantom [58]. (a) Geometry of array, (b) simulated vertical electric field on surface of muscle phantom.

3.4.2 Antenna-to-Surface Wave Coupling
The analysis of electric fields excited by a short dipole on the surface of a lossy dielectric, such as human tissue, demonstrated that these fields are due to two possible types of a surface wave, namely TM and TE modes. Each of these two modes attenuates with the distance according to a law independent of the parameters of the antenna, or its orientation, and fully determined by the properties of the surface material only. On the other hand, the relative amplitudes of the three components of the surface wave electric field (i.e., perpendicular to the surface, radial, and transverse) do depend on the orientation of the dipole. Therefore, an arbitrary antenna near the surface of the body, with an arbitrary current distribution, can be expected also to excite a mixture of the two surface wave polarization modes which attenuate with the distance according to the same laws as the surface waves of the short dipoles. However, the relative amplitudes of all the three components of the field will depend on the antenna current distribution.
For the practical purpose of comparing the surface wave launching ability of different antennas, the amplitudes of the three components of the surface wave field have been obtained for each antenna and compared. Since the TM mode is, in general, stronger on the body tissues and, therefore, will contribute most significantly to the communication link, comparing only the z-components of the electric fields can be sufficient for practical purposes.
The field distributions on the surface of a human tissue phantom have been simulated in CST Microwave Studio for a number of practical small antennas shown in Figure 3.24 namely, planar inverted-F antenna (PIFA), printed inverted- F antenna (IFA), printed loop, patch antenna, and a half-wavelength dipole. All the antennas operated at 2.45 GHz and were placed 5 mm above a box-shaped phantom made of either fat or muscle tissue. Each antenna was excited with an S-parameter discrete port with a 50Ω internal impedance, providing 1 W input power. The electric field distribution in the plane 5 mm above the phantom surface was obtained from the simulation, and the components of the field, E, were then fitted to the following formula:


(3.14)

where r0 is a reference distance, and E1 is the field value at this distance. In the rest of the paper the reference distance will be chosen to be r0 = 1 cm.


Figure 3.24 Antenna structures (arrow shows the φ = 0º direction).

The monopole antenna was found to launch only the TM mode of the surface wave, while the rest of the tested antennas launch a combination of the TM and TE modes in different directions. Figure 3.25 shows the electric field amplitude of the TM wave excited by the different antennas at different distances in the direction indicated with an arrow in Figure 3.24. Table 3.11 gives α and E1 derived by fitting the model given in (3.14) to the simulated data.
The small range of calculated α, 1.5 to 1.7 on fat and 1.05 to 1.2 on muscle, suggests that all the antennas excite the TM mode of the surface wave similar to that generated by a short dipole. Comparing the E1 parameter for different antennas, it can be seen that the monopole and IFA excite the strongest and the weakest surface waves, respectively, on both fat and muscle tissues. The antennas with a vertical polarization such as monopole, PIFA, and patch are much more efficient than the horizontal polarized antenna such as loop, dipole, and IFA and are less affected by the material type.


Figure 3.25 Electric field variation versus distance for TM mode excitation by different antennas on the surface of the flat phantom.


Table 3.11 Attenuation and Field Amplitude for Various Antennas on Human Tissue
The angular patterns of E1z and α on fat tissue, expressed in dB are shown in Figure 3.26. The direction, ϕ = 0, is indicated by an arrow for each of the antennas in Figure 3.24. With the exception of the monopole (which is not shown in Figure 3.26), which excites the strongest surface waves in all the azimuthal directions, the PIFA appears to be the best antenna for launching the surface wave TM mode in any direction, and the only one with an omnidirectional pattern of E1z. All the other antennas have a figure-8-shaped pattern, similar to the dipole's pattern. Among all the others, the half-wavelength dipole tangential to the surface appears to be the worst antenna for surface wave launching. Interestingly, the dipole peak radiation direction is in the end-fire direction, as compared to the broadside direction in free space.


Figure 3.26 Azimuthal variation of the parameters of the TM mode surface wave launched by body-mounted antennas on fat tissue. (a) E1z(angle is ϕ, and radial scale is dB), (b) α.

Modeling of the wave launched by the different antennas on the box phantom provides useful knowledge and understanding of the surface wave characteristics for various antenna types. The flat surface is representative of certain areas of the body, such as the chest and the back. However, in the case of nonline-of-sight channels, such as the chest to back, this model becomes inappropriate because the surface wave follows the curvature of the body surface in this case. This leads to the surface wave shedding some energy in the form of radiation, thus increasing the rate of attenuation. Such a wave that follows the curvature of the surface attenuates exponentially with the distance measured along the curved surface and is often referred to as a creeping wave.
In order to investigate how different antennas perform on a curved surface, simulations were performed on a half cylinder phantom shown in Figure 3.27. The antennas were oriented so that the arrows shown in Figure 3.24 were parallel to the direction indicated by the cone in Figure 3.27 (i.e., straight up in Figure 3.27(a)). The bottom and the sides of the structure were covered by a PML boundary to eliminate contributions from other rays and hence allowing only the wave propagating around the cylinder to be examined. The radius of the cylinder was 10 cm, corresponding to a typical curvature of a human trunk. The circumference of the path of the wave was almost 32 cm. The structure was assigned the dielectric properties of muscle. Simulations on fat tissue are not reported here because, due to its low dielectric constant, fat is rather transparent for radio waves and, therefore, the surface wave field is mixed with the field of the wave transmitted through the bulk of the tissue. The fields simulated on the cylindrical surface were fitted to the following model, representing exponential attenuation:


(3.15)

where E0 is the electric field at 0 m from the antenna, and β is the attenuation rate of the field on the cylinder. The distance, d, measured from the antenna along the surface, varied from 10 to 32 cm.


Figure 3.27 Antenna on half cylinder: (a) side view and (b) 3-D view.

Figure 3.28 shows the electric field variation around the cylinder in the plane perpendicular to the cylinder axis. Tables 3.12 and 3.13 show the model parameters β and E0 evaluated by fitting (3.15) to the electric field data plotted in Figure 3.28. Values β change only slightly for the different antennas, which indicates that they all excite the same wave mode. Also, similarly to the case of the flat surface, the vertically polarized antennas (i.e., monopole, PIFA, and patch) couple energy into the creeping wave more efficiently than the horizontally polarized ones.


Figure 3.28 Electric field variation versus distance for different antennas around the cylinder.


Table 3.12 Parameters of the Creeping Wave Launched by Antennas on the Cylindrical Surface of Muscle Tissue

Table 3.13 Parameters of the Creeping Wave Launched by a Half- Wavelength Dipole on the Cylindrical Surfaces of Muscle Tissue with Different Radii
In order to investigate the effect of the cylinder radius on the creeping wave parameters, the half-wavelength dipole was simulated on the structure shown in Figure 3.27 with different cylinder radii. The variation of the electric field around the cylinder is shown in Figure 3.29, for three different radii. Obviously, the propagation path lengths are different on the cylinders with different radii. This is why the curves have different lengths. In spite of slow attenuation of the wave on the cylinder with the larger radius, the signal weakens much more at the end of the path due to the longer distance. The creeping wave parameters are shown in Table 3.13. As mentioned above, increasing the radius of the cylinder reduces the attenuation rate, β.


Figure 3.29 Electric field variation versus distance for different cylinder radii.

3.4.3 Antenna Match and Efficiency
The input impedance and efficiency of the antenna will be affected by the proximity of the body. In the design of the antenna, it is important in many body links to excite a surface wave and this is particularly true in trunk to trunk links. This implies strong fields on the antenna ground plane. If the equipment demands the use of a small ground plane, then the reactive near fields of the antenna may interact with the body and cause loss.
Figure 3.30 shows measurements of the input return loss of a monopole as it is brought close to the human body. It can be seen that the resonant frequency has shifted by 300 MHz, which is greater than its -10-dB bandwidth.


Figure 3.30 Measured input return loss of monopole antenna in proximity to human body phantom. Distance between antenna and phantom, d; chain d = 0; dotted chain d = 5 mm; long chain d= 10 mm; dotted d = large, no phantom. Monopole, 31 × 0.5 mm2 copper wire; ground plane diameter = 50 mm, 0.4 mm thick copper; PIFA, 25.9 × 14.8 mm2; frequency = 2.45 GHz; phantom relative permittivity = 40 conductivity = 2.1 S/m 10 cm diameter, 5 cm thick.

The efficiency of a monopole and planar inverted F antenna on a small ground plane have been measured, both in free space and located close to the human body and the results are shown in Table 3.14. The body is here represented by a phantom, as shown in Figure 3.31(a). The measurements in the chamber consist of computing the directivity from an integration of the measured radiation pattern and comparing this to the measured gain. The measurements using the Wheeler cap involve placing the antenna and the phantom in the cap, as shown in Figure 3.31(b). The Wheeler cap was 10 cm in diameter and the 5 cm thick phantom completely filled the cap below the antenna. Table 3.14 shows that the two measurements agree well for both antennas. In free space, the efficiency is of the order of 90%. In this case, there are significant currents flowing over the ground plane and onto the coaxial feed cable. These currents are absorbed by small ferrite beads on the cable, giving rise to the small loss. The measured efficiency when mounted on the phantom, with the antenna ground planes in contact with the phantom material, is between 40% and 50%. There are some detailed differences between the measured results for the monopole and PIFA, but the conclusions are the same. Simulations of the efficiency have also been performed and these are also shown in the table. There is agreement within ±5% but the reduction of efficiency off resonance is not predicted well in the case of the monopole. In practice, the antenna is not likely to be in intimate contact with the body, and therefore, it will not experience such losses as shown here; these results serve to show the magnitude of the effect.


Figure 3.31 Monopole antenna on body phantom: (a) in free space, (b) in Wheeler cap. Phantom and monopole as in Figure 3.30.


Table 3.14 Efficiency of Antennas on the Body
3.5 Multiple Antenna Systems
3.5.1 Antenna Diversity
As propagation studies have shown, body-area propagation channels are subject to fading. Some of this fading is caused by relative movements of the antennas with respect to each other, so that the gains of the antennas decrease occasionally due to radiation pattern and polarization mismatch. These effects are particularly noticeable when at least one of the antennas is mounted on one of the limbs, and give rise to "long-term" fading of the received signal. In the case when the user is in a scattering environment, such as indoors, multipath fading can be particularly strong. In order to improve the performance of the on-body links, antenna diversity methods can be successfully employed.
Diversity in links from body-to-body at 2.45 GHz were studied in [59, 60]. Printed F antennas mounted vertically on firefighter's helmets (RH, LH) or the shoulders of their protective clothing (RS, LS). The subjects moved around a fire and rescue training indoor environment. Selective combining (SC), equal gain combining (EGC), and maximal-ratio combining (MRC) diversity gain are shown in Table 3.15, together with the channel power difference for both two and four channel systems on three subjects. In some cases, the signals had moderate power differences, but generally useful levels (up to 8.7 dB) of diversity gain were seen.

Table 3.15 Diversity Gain and Power Difference for Body-to-Body Multiple Antenna Systems
Similar results have been obtained for multiple antenna systems on the body to static off body antenna [5, 61]. On body links have been studied, at 868 MHz [62], 2.45 GHz [63, 64], and at 5.8 and 10 GHz [65]. In [63], both pairs of planar inverted Fs (PIFA) on a small ground plane and pairs of inverted F antennas (IFA) coplanar with a small ground plane were investigated in five channels, belt to head, wrist to chest, back, and ankle, respectively. The size of the PIFA radiating plates was 12.5 × 20 mm. The distance between the two nearby edges of the radiating plates was 25 mm and the size of the ground plane was 50 × 40 mm. The size of the IFA ground plane was approximately 60 × 30 mm. The relative orientation of antennas in the pairs and the orientation of the pairs were varied. Table 3.16 shows the best diversity gain using maximal-ratio combining for the channels and antennas.

Table 3.16 Maximal-Ratio Combining Diversity Gain for On-Body Multiple Antenna Systems
Dual polarization and dual pattern diversity [66, 67], has have been shown to give diversity gains up to approximately 7 dB. A switched beam pattern diversity antenna [37] consisting of an array of top loaded monopole provided a diversity gain between 3 dB and 12 dB. Statistical models of diversity channels have been derived in [68].
3.5.2 MIMO
Another use of multiple antenna systems is to increase the available capacity of the propagation channel through the use of signal processing techniques to the signals in a multiple input multiple output (MIMO) system. Early work showed the potential of such methods [69, 70]. Investigations of the 2 × 2 MIMO systems in body-centric communications showed that capacities close to the theoretical maximum of double the capacity of the single input single output (SISO) system are achievable for some channels, although they are lower than the capacity of a Rayleigh channel [71]. Other work on MIMO relates to ultra wideband systems, which is the subject of Chapter 5.
3.5.3 Interference Cancellation
Reducing effects of interference from other WBANs is another application for multiple antenna systems, besides diversity and MIMO. In [72], a method to increase the signal to interference plus noise ratio (SINR) has been proposed, which is suitable for WBAN applications. This method relies on transmission free periods to measure the interference signal at the two branches of a two antenna system. Afterwards, the measured signals are used to cancel the interference during transmissions. The interference rejection gain (IRG) of about 7 dB was achieved with this method for the belt-to-head channel, when the interval between transmission interruptions was set to 60 ms.
3.6 Systems Modeling
Apart from reporting on propagation channel and antenna characteristics in the vicinity of a human body, there has been much work in using this data to evaluate the performance of the WBAN or WPAN communication systems. Some of this relates to ultra wideband systems (UWB), which are seen as excellent candidates for some on body systems. UWB is the subject of Chapter 5.
For example, bit error ratios (BER) of on-body Bluetooth links were evaluated in [73]. Figure 3.32 shows the block diagram of the Bluetooth simulation. In both trunk-to-head and trunk-to-hand (worst-case) scenarios, the system performed well for transmit power down to −10 dBm, and acceptable performance was obtained for values down to −20 dBm. However, in the −30 dBm transmit power case, high bit error rate bursts resulted in a degraded overall system performance. The percentage of time that the bit error rate is higher than 0.1%, which is the requirement for unacceptable Bluetooth short-range wireless communication quality, is presented in Table 3.17, for different transmit power values and for both scenarios trunk-to-head and trunk-to-hand. Outage rates are low for powers down to -20 dBm.


Figure 3.32 Block diagram of Bluetooth system simulation.


Table 3.17 Percentage of Time BER > 0.1% in Simulation of On-Body Bluetooth Links
The capacity improvements offered by MIMO systems were also investigated [74, 75]. Some transceiver designs for WBAN applications were proposed in [76, 77]. WBAN systems for medical applications are discussed in [78-80]. Based on measured channel data at 2.45 GHz, [81] showed the resilience of code division multiple access to an increasing number of user.
3.7 Conclusions
On-body measurement methods, channel performance and models, and the performance of both single and multiple antenna systems have been presented in this chapter.
Measurement of channel performance remains a challenge. Traditional cable connection between the body-worn antennas remains a simple and low cost method, but may lead to errors of a few dB in path gain. Optical converter size reductions and increases in upper frequency mean that fiber optics is becoming an attractive alternative. It is likely that miniature data logging modules give the best accuracy; however, they are less flexible than the previous methods, as the transceivers are usually dedicated to a single band. De-embedding of the antenna from the measured channel is possible in some cases for static subjects, but the extension to moving subjects is problematic.
Much work has been done to understand and characterize channels at 2.45 GHz, with results for frequencies from 400 MHz to 10 GHz also available. Physical understanding is now good for path loss, variation with movement, polarization, and the mechanisms of coupling to some propagation modes. In general, short term fading is well-characterized by both Rician and Nakagami models; long-term fading is well-characterized by lognormal models, although the parameters are channel- and antenna-dependent.
Planar antennas placed parallel and close to the body surface will experience significant efficiency loss and detuning. Antennas with vertical current components, such as the monopole or planar inverted F antenna give best path gain and experience lowest path gain variation. Useful diversity gain has been demonstrated for multiple antenna systems, together with good MIMO channel capacity increase and some ability to suppress interference from other body area networks in the vicinity.
References
[1] Icheln, C., J. Ollikainen, and P. Vainikainen, "Reducing the Influence of Feed Cables on Small Antenna Measurements," Electronics Letters, Vol. 35, No. 15, 1999, pp. 1212-1214.
[2] Massey, P. J., and K. R. Boyle, "Controlling the effects of feed cable in small antenna measurements," ICAP 2003, IET Conf Pub, Vol. 2, No. 491, 2003, pp. 561-564.
[3] Catherwood, P. A., and W. G. Scanlon, "Measurement Errors Introduced by the Use of Coaxial cabling in the Assessment of Wearable Antenna Performance in Off-body Channels," 5th European Conference on Antennas and Propagation, Rome, Italy, April 2011.
[4] Dusara, S., "Radio Over Fibre Systems for Body Centric Communication Measurements," M.Res. thesis, School of Electronic, Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Birmingham, UK, December 2010.
[5] Cotton, S. L., and W. G. Scanlon, "Measurements, Modeling and Simulation of the Offbody Radio Channel for the Implementation of Bodyworn Antenna Diversity at 868 MHz," IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 57, No. 12, 2009, pp. 3951-3961.
[6] Friis, H., "A Note on a Simple Transmission Formula," Proc. IRE, Vol. 34, 1946, pp. 254-256.
[7] Kaske, M., C. Schneider, W. Kotterman, and R. Thoma, "Solving the Problem of Choosing the Right MIMO Measurement Antenna: Embedding/De-embedding," Proceedings of the 5th European Conference on Antennas and Propagation (EUCAP), 2011 , pp. 2551-2555.
[8] Akhoondzadeh-Asl, L., "Polarisation Behavior of On-Body Communication Channels at 2.45 GHz," Ph.D. thesis, University of Birmingham, UK, May 2011.
[9] Hall, P. S., Y. Hao, Y. I. Nechayev, A. Alomalny, C. C. Constantinou, et al., "Antennas and Propagation for On-body Communication Systems," IEEE Antennas and Propagation Magazine, Vol. 49, No. 3, 2007, pp. 41-58.
[10] Hall, P. S., M. Ricci, and T. M. Hee, "Measurements of On-Body Propagation Characteristics," IEEE Antennas and Propagation Society, AP-S International Symposium (Digest), San Antonio, TX, 2002, pp. 310-313.
[11] Hall, P. S., M. Ricci, and T. W. Hee, "Characterization of On-Body Communication Channels," 3rd International Conference on Microwave and Millimeter Wave Technology (Cat. No.02EX579), Piscataway, NJ, 2002, pp. 770-772.
[12] Fort, A., C. Desset, P. Wambacq, and L. V. Biesen, "Indoor Body-Area Channel Model for Narrowband Communications," IET Microwaves, Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 1, No. 6, 2007, pp. 1197-1203.
[13] Nechayev, Y. I., P. S. Hall, C. C. Constantinou, Y. Hao, A. Alomainy, et al., "On-Body Path Gain Variations with Changing Body Posture and Antenna Position," IEEE Antennas and Propagation Society, AP-S International Symposium (Digest), Washington, DC, 2005, pp. 731-734.
[14] Nechayev, Y., P. Hall, C. Constantinou, Y. Hao, A. Owadally, et al., "Path Loss Measurements of On-Body Propagation Channels," International Symposium on Antennas and Propagation (ISAP 2004), Sendai, Japan, 2004.
[15] Ziri-Castro, K. I., W. G. Scanlon, R. Feustle, and N. E. Evans, "Indoor Channel Measurements for a Body-Worn 5.2 GHz Receiver," 5th European Personal Mobile Communications Conference (IEEE Conf. Publ. 492), London, UK, 2003, pp. 191-194.
[16] Alomainy, A., Y. Hao, A. Owadally, C. G. Parini, Y. Nechayev, et al., "Statistical Analysis and Performance Evaluation for On-Body Radio Propagation with Microstrip Patch antennas Antennas," IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 55, No. 1, 2007, pp. 245-248.
[17] Cotton, S. L., and W. G. Scanlon, "Characterization and Modeling of the Indoor Radio Channel at 868 MHz for a Mobile Bodyworn Wireless Personal Area Network," IEEE Antennas and Wireless Propagation Letters, Vol. 6, 2007, pp. 51-55.
[18] Hu, Z. H., Y. I. Nechayev, P. S. Hall, C. C. Constantinou, and Y. Hao, "Measurements and Statistical Analysis of On-Body Channel Fading at 2.45 GHz," IEEE Antennas and Wireless Propagation Letters, Vol. 6, 2007, pp. 612-615.
[19] Cotton, S. L, W. G. Scanlon, and J. Guy, "The K-distribution Applied to the Analysis of Fading in Body to Body Communication Channels for Fire and Rescue Personnel," IEEE Antennas and Wireless Propagation Letters, Vol. 7, 2008, pp. 66-69.
[20] Smith, D., L. Hanlen, D. Miniutti, Z. Jian, D. Rodda, et al., "Statistical Characterization of the Dynamic Narrowband Body Area Channel," First International Symposium on Applied Sciences on Biomedical and Communication Technologies (ISABEL), Piscataway, NJ, 2008, pp. 5.
[21] Katayama, N., K. Takizawa, T. Aoyagi, J-I. Takada, H-B. Li, et al., "Channel Model on Various Frequency Bands for Wearable Body Area Network," 1st International Symposium on Applied Sciences in Biomedical and Communication Technologies, ISABEL 2008, Aalborg, Denmark, 2008.
[22] Takizawa, K., T. Aoyagi, J-I. Takada, N. Katayama, K. Y. Yazdandoost, et al., "Channel Models for Wireless Body Area Networks," Proceedings of the 30th Annual International Conference of the IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society, EMBS'08, Personalized Healthcare Through Technology, Vancouver, Canada, 2008, pp. 1549-1552.
[23] Cotton, S. L., and W. G. Scanlon, "Channel Characterization for Single- and Multipleantenna Wearable Systems Used for Indoor Body-to-Body Communications," IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 57, No. 4, 2009, pp. 980-990.
[24] Cotton, S. L., and W. G. Scanlon, "An Experimental Investigation into the Influence of User State and Environment on Fading Characteristics in Wireless Body Area Networks at 2.45 GHz," IEEE Transactions on Wireless Communications, Vol. 8, No. 1, 2009, pp. 6-12.
[25] Jian, Z., D. B. Smith, L. W. Hanlen, D. Miniutti, D. Rodda, et al., "Stability of Narrowband Dynamic Body Area Channel," IEEE Antennas and Wireless Propagation Letters, Vol. 8, 2009, pp. 53-56.
[26] Katayama, N., K. Takizawa, T. Aoyagi, J. i. Takada, L. Huan-Bang, et al., "Channel Model on Various Frequency Bands for Wearable Body Area Network," First International Symposium on Applied Sciences in Biomedical and Communication Technologies, ISABEL '08, Aalborg, Denmark, October 2008.
[27] Kim, M., and J. I. Takada, "Statistical Model for 4.5-GHz Narrowband On-body Propagation Channel with Specific Actions," IEEE Antennas and Wireless Propagation Letters, Vol. 8, 2009, pp. 1250-1254.
[28] Smith, D., L. Hanlen, Z. Jian, D. Miniutti, D. Rodda, et al., "Characterization of the Dynamic Narrowband On-body to Off-body Area Channel," IEEE International Conference on Communications, Piscaatway, NJ, 2009.
[29] Smith, D. B., Z. Jian, L. W. Hanlen, D. Miniutti, D. Rodda, et al., "A Simulator for the Dynamic On-body Area Propagation Channel," IEEE International Symposium on Antennas Propagation USNC/URSI National Radio Science Meeting, Piscataway, NJ, 2009, pp. 4.
[30] Zhen, B., M. Kim, J.-I. Takada, and R. Kohno, "Characterization and Modeling of Dynamic On-body Propagation," 3rd International Conference on Pervasive Computing Technologies for Healthcare-Pervasive Health 2009, PCT Health 2009, London, 2009.
[31] Zhen, B., M. Kim, J. I. Takada, and R. Kohno, "Characterization and Modeling of Dynamic On-body Propagation at 4.5 GHz," IEEE Antennas and Wireless Propagation Letters, Vol. 8, 2009, pp. 1263-1267.
[32] Nechayev, Y. I., P. S. Hall, and Z. H. Hu, "Characterisation of Narrowband Communication Channels on the Human Body at 2.45 GHz," IET Microwaves, Antennas and Propagation, 2010, Vol. 4, No. 6, pp. 722-732.
[33] Molisch, A., Cassioli, D., Chong, C-C., et al., "IEEE 802.15.4a Channel Model—Final Report," Technical Report Document IEEE 802.15-04-0662-02-004a, 2005.
[34] Cotton, S. L., W. G. Scanlon, and G. A. Conway, "Autocorrelation of Signal Fading in Wireless Body Area Networks," 2nd IET Seminar on Antennas and Propagation for Body-Centric Wireless Communication, Stevenage, UK, 2009, pp. 5.
[35] Smith, D. B., J. Zhang, L. W. Hanlen, D. Miniutti, D. Rodda, et al., "Temporal Correlation of Dynamic On-body Area Radio Channel," Electronics Letters, Vol. 45, No. 24, 2009, pp. 1212-1213.
[36] Cotton, S. L., G. A. Conway, and W. G. Scanlon, "A Time-Domain Approach to the Analysis and Modeling of On-Body Propagation Characteristics Using Synchronized Measurements at 2.45 GHz," IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 57, No. 4, 2009, pp. 943-955.
[37] Kamarudin, M. R., Y. I. Nechayev, and P. S. Hall, "On Body Diversity and Angle-of-arrival Measurement Using a Pattern Switching Antenna," IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 57, No. 4, 2009, pp. 964-971.
[38] Anreddy, V., and M. Ingram, "Capacity of Measured Ricean and Rayleigh Indoor MIMO Channels at 2.4 GHz with Polarization and Spatial Diversity," Wireless Communications and Networking Conference, Vol. 2, 2006, pp. 946-951.
[39] Akhoondzadeh-Asl, L., I. Khan, Y. I. Nechayev, and P. S. Hall, "Investigation of Polarization in On-Body Propagation Channels," Proceedings of the European Conference on Antennas and Propagation, EuCAP 2009, Berlin, Germany, 2009, pp. 466-469.
[40] Alomainy, A., Y. Hao, and D. M. Davenport, "Parametric Study of Wearable Antennas with Varying Distances from the Body and Different On-Body Positions," IET Seminar on Antennas and Propagation for Body-Centric Wireless Communications, IET Seminar Digest, 11803 ed., London, 2007, pp. 84-89.
[41] Kamarudin, M. R., Y. I. Nechayev, and P. S. Hall, "Antennas for On-Body Communication Systems," IEEE International Workshop on Antenna Technology: Small Antennas and Novel Metamaterials, IWAT 2005, Singapore, United States, 2005, pp. 17-20.
[42] Rahmat-Samii, Y., "Loop Antennas on an Embedded Electromagnetic Bandgap Structure for Biotelemetry Applications," URSI 2007, Ottawa, Canada, July 2007..
[43] Liu, L., S. Van Roy, S., P. De Doncker, C. Oestges, "Azimuth Radiation Pattern Characterization of Omnidirectional Antennas Near a Human Body," International Conference on Electromagnetics in Advanced Applications, September 2009, pp. 461-464.
[44] Salonen, P., L.Sydanheimo, M. Keskilammi, and M. Kivikoski, "A Small Planar Inverted-F Antenna for Wearable Applications," 3rd International Symposium on Wearable Computers, 1999, pp. 95-100.
[45] See, T. S. P., and N. C. Zhi, "Effects of Human Body on Performance of Wearable PIFAs and RF Transmission," IEEE Antennas and Propagation Society, AP-S International Symposium (Digest), Washington, DC, 2005, pp. 686-689.
[46] Duan, Z., D. Linton, W. G. Scanlon, and A. R. Chandran, "A Coplanar Waveguide Feeding SRR Antenna Including Human Body Effect," Antennas and Propagation Conference, LAPC 2009, Loughborough, UK, November 2009, pp. 513-516.
[47] Haga, N., K. Saito, M. Takahashi, and K. Ito, "Characteristics of Cavity Slot Antenna for Body-Area Networks," IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 57, No. 4, April 2009, pp. 837-843.
[48] Zhu, S., and R. Langley, "Dual-band Wearable Antennas Over EBG Substrate," Electronics Letters, Vol. 43, No. 3,February 2007, pp. 141-142.
[49] Conway, G. A., and W. G. Scanlon, "Low-Profile Patch Antennas for Over-Body-Surface Communication at 2.45 GHz," International Workshop on Antenna Technology: Small and Smart Antennas Metamaterials and Applications, March 2007, pp. 416-419.
[50] Chandran, A. R., G. A. Conway, and W. G. Scanlon, "Compact Low-profile Patch Antenna for Medical Body Area Networks at 868 MHz," IEEE International Symposium Antennas and Propagation Society, AP-S 2008, July 2008, pp. 1-4.
[51] Conway, G. A., and W. G. Scanlon, "Antennas for Over-Body-Surface Communication at 2.45 GHz," IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 57, No. 4, April 2009, pp. 844-855.
[52] Chandran, A. R., G. A. Conway, and W. G. Scanlon, "Pattern Switching Compact Patch Antenna for On-body and Off-body Communications at 2.45 GHz," 3rd European Conference on Antennas and Propagation, EuCAP 2009, March 2009, pp. 2055-2057.
[53] Dubrovka, R. F., and I. B. Shirokov, "On-body Antenna for the Miners Cardiac Rhythm Sensor,"Loughborough Antennas and Propagation Conference, LAPC 2009, November 2009, pp. 581-584.
[54] Sanz-Izquierdo, B., J. C. Batchelor, and M. I. Sobhy, "Button Antenna on Textiles for Wireless Local Area Network on Body Applications," IET Proc Microwaves, Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 4, No. 11, 2010, pp. 1980-1987.
[55] Sanz-Izquierdo, B., J. A. Miller, J. C. Batchelor, and M. I. Sobhy, "Dual-band Wearable Metallic Button Antennas and Transmission in Body Area Networks," IET Proc Microwaves, Antennas, and Propagation, Vol. 4, No. 2, 2010, pp. 182-190.
[56] Conway, G. A., S. L. Cotton, and W. G. Scanlon, "An Antennas and Propagation Approach to Improving Physical Layer Performance in Wireless Body Area Networks," IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications, Vol. 27, No. 1, 2009, pp. 27-36.
[57] Conway, G. A., W. G. Scanlon, and S. L. Cotton, "The Performance of On-body Wearable Antennas in a Repeatable Multipath Environment," IEEE International Symposium on Antennas and Propagation, APSURSI, San Diego, CA, 2008.
[58] Akhoondzadeh-Asl, L., P. S. Hall, and Y. Nechayev, "Novel Conformal Surface Wave Yagi Antenna for On-body Communication Channel," IEEE Antennas and Propagation Symposium, Toronto, Canada, 2010.
[59] Cotton, S. L., and W. G. Scanlon, "Channel Characterization for Single- and Multipleantenna Wearable Systems Used for Indoor Body-to-body Communications," IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 57, No. 4, 2009, pp. 980-990.
[60] Wang, Y., I. B. Bonev, J. O. Nielsen, I. Z. Kovacs, and G. F. Pedersen, "Characterization of the Indoor Multiantenna Body-to-body Radio Channel," IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 57, No. 4, 2009, pp. 972-979.
[61] Ali, J., S. L. Cotton, and W. G. Scanlon, "Spatial Diversity for Off-body Communications in an Indoor Populated Environment at 5.8 GHz," Loughborough Antennas Propagation Conference (LAPC), 2009, pp. 641-644.
[62] Cotton, S. L., and W. G. Scanlon, "Characterization and Modeling of On-body Spatial Diversity Within Indoor Environments at 868 MHz," IEEE Transactions on Wireless Communications, Vol. 8, No. 1, 2009, pp. 176-185.
[63] Khan, I., P. S. Hall, A.Serra, A. R. Guraliuc, and P. Nepa, "Diversity Performance Analysis for On-body Communication Channels at 2.45 GHz," IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 57, No. 4, 2009, pp. 956-963.
[64] Conway, G. A., S. L. Cotton, and W. G. Scanlon, "An Antennas and Propagation Approach to Improving Physical Layer Performance in Wireless Body Area Networks," IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications, Vol. 27, No. 1, 2009, pp. 27-36.
[65] Khan, I., and P. S. Hall, "Multiple Antenna Reception at 5.8 and 10 GHz for Body-centric Wireless Communication Channels," IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 57, No. 1, 2009, pp. 248-255.
[66] Serra, A., P. Nepa, G. Manara, and P. S. Hall, "Diversity Measurements for On-body Communication Systems," IEEE Antennas and Wireless Propagation Letters, Vol. 6, 2007, pp. 361-363.
[67] Serra, A., A. R. Guraliuc, P. Nepa, G. Manara, I. Khan, et al., "Dual-polarisation and Dual-pattern Planar Antenna for Diversity in Body-centric Communications," IET Proc Microwaves, Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 4, No. 1, 2009, pp. 106-112.
[68] Khan, T., Y. I. Nechayev, and P. S. Hall, "Second-order Statistics of Measured On-body Diversity Channels," Microwave and Optical Technology Letters, Vol. 51, No. 10, 2009, pp. 2335-2337.
[69] Neirynck, D., C. Williams, A. Nix, and M. Beach, "Personal Area Networks with Lineof- sight MIMO Operation," IEEE 63rd Vehicular Technology Conference, 2006, pp. 2859-2862.
[70] Neirynck, D., C. Williams, A. Nix, and M. Beach, "Exploiting Multiple-input Multipleoutput in the Personal Sphere," IET Proc Microwaves, Antennas, and Propagation, Vol. 1, No. 6, 2007, pp. 1170-1176.
[71] Khan, I., and P. S. Hall, "Experimental Evaluation of MIMO Capacity and Correlation for Narrowband Body-centric Wireless Channels," IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 58, No. 1, 2010, pp. 195-202.
[72] Khan, I., Y. Nechayev, K. Ghanem, and P. S. Hall, "BAN-BAN Interference Rejection with Multiple Antennas at the Receiver," IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 58, No. 3, 2010.
[73] Alomainy, A., Y. Hao, A. Owadally, C. G. Parini, Y. Nechayev, et al., "Statistical Analysis and Performance Evaluation for On-body Radio Propagation with Microstrip Patch antennas Antennas," IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 55, No. 1, 2007, pp. 245-248.
[74] Ghanem, K., and P. Hall, "Capacity Evaluation of On-body Channels Using MIMO Antennas," IEEE International Conference on Wireless and Mobile Computing Networking and Communication, Marrakech, Morocco, 2009, pp. 185-190.
[75] Ghanem, K., and P. S. Hall, "Investigation of Capacity of On-body Channels Using MIMO antennas Antennas," Loughborough Antennas Propagation Conference (LAPC), Loughborough, UK, pp. 161-164.
[76] Crumley, G. C., N. E. Evans, W. G. Scanlon, J. B. Burns, and T. G. Trouton, "Design and Performance of a 2.5-GHz Telecommand Link for Wireless Biomedical Monitoring," IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine, Vol. 4, No. 4, 2000, pp. 285-291.
[77] Hao, Y. and R. Foster, "Wireless Body Sensor Networks for Health-monitoring Applications," Physiological Measurement, Vol. 29, No. 11, 2008, pp. R27-R56.
[78] Changle, L., L. Huan-Bang, and R. Kohno, "Reservation-based Dynamic TDMA Protocol for Medical Body Area Networks," IEICE Transactions on Communications, Vol. E92-B, No. 2, 2009, pp. 387-395.
[79] Kohno, R., K. Hamaguchi, H-B. Li, and K. Takizawa, "R and D and Standardization of Body Area Network (BAN) for Medical Healthcare," IEEE International Conference on Ultra-Wideband, ICUWB 2008, Hannover, Germany, 2008, pp. 5-8.
[80] Timmons, N. F., and W. G. Scanlon, "An Adaptive Energy Efficient MAC Protocol for the Medical Body Area Network," 1st International Conference on Wireless Communication, Vehicular Technology, Information Theory and Aerospace and Electronic Systems Technology, Wireless VITAE 2009, Aalborg, Denmark, 2009, pp. 587-593.
[81] Ghanem, K., P. S. Hall, and R. Langley, "Interference Cancellation in Body-Area Networks using Linear Multiuser Receivers," International Journal of Wireless Information Networks, (Springer), Special No., 2010, Vol. 17, No. 3-4.










CHAPTER 4
Wearable Devices Using the Human Body as a Transmission Channel

Koichi Ito , Masaharu Takahashi, Katsuyuki Fujii, and Nozomi Haga
4.1 Introduction of Communications Using Circuits in Direct Contact with the Human Body
In Chapter 3, antennas and propagation for on-body communications at microwave frequencies were discussed. This chapter describes the authors' studies about wearable devices and communication channels using high the frequency (HF) bands. Whereas the use of microwave frequency bands is superior in terms of high data rate, using the HF band is advantageous in terms of low power consumption because signals are transmitted through reactive near fields. Another merit of using the HF band is that data can be exchanged by our natural actions, such as simply touching a receiver, and the user can be clearly aware of connection. Figure 4.1 shows some future potential applications. We can use these transmission systems for security, electronic money, and entertainment [1].


Figure 4.1 Examples of near-future applications of the use of the HF band: (a) auto lock door, (b) auto login, (c) electronic money, and (d) entertainment.

Although many studies have been made on the development of wearable devices using the human body as a transmission channel, little is known about the physical phenomenon of such communication systems from the viewpoint of the interaction between the electromagnetic wave and the human body [2-14, 25-28]. Electromagnetic communication trials using the human body as a transmission medium have been carried out for more than a decade. However, most of the research has been conducted by researchers who usually only want to utilize the results.
This chapter evaluates the signal transmission characteristics of the wearable devices by both computer simulations and measurements [15-24]. Figure 4.2 shows the communication system [9] of the PANs using a 10-MHz carrier frequency [30]. When a user wearing the transmitter touches the electrode of the receiver, a transmission channel is formed because of the human body. In this case, the receiver recognizes the user's ID, which can be personalized. This communication system uses the near-field region of the electromagnetic wave generated by the device, which is eventually coupled to the human body by electrodes. The structure of electrodes is one of the key issues for transmission using the human body.


Figure 4.2 Demonstration of transmission system using the human arm as a transmission channel [9].

Incidentally, some authors have investigated the frequency dependence of the on-body communication channel in a frequency range from 3 MHz to 3 GHz [29]. In order to clarify the feature of using the low frequency of several megahertz, some parts of the study are described here. In [29], a typical top-loaded monopole antenna or electrode was used, as shown in Figure 4.3. Its first resonant frequency is around 4 GHz, and so its radiation pattern is omnidirectional (tangential to the body surface) over the frequency range of interest (3 MHz-3 GHz).


Figure 4.3 Geometry of the antenna/electrode.

Figure 4.4 shows the calculation model of a human body with a transmitter (Tx) and receivers (Rx). The model measures 1.72 meters in height and is composed of uniform tissue that is electrically equivalent to muscle. The separation between the sole and the ground is 20 mm, assuming shoes are worn. The ground is represented by a perfect electric conductor and has infinite dimensions. A transmitter is mounted on the abdomen, and receivers are mounted on the chest, wrist, ankle, ear, and back, respectively. There is a 4 mm separation between the antennas and the body surface, as shown in Figure 4.3.


Figure 4.4 Calculation model.

As we all know, dielectric properties of human tissue are dependent on frequency. In order to solve the problem in the FDTD method, the complex relative permittivity of human tissue can be approximated by the Debye equation:


(4.1)

where ω is the angular frequency, ε0 is the permittivity of free space, εs is the static permittivity at zero frequency, ε∞ is the infinite-frequency permittivity, τ is the relaxation time, and σ is the static conductivity. As mentioned before, the human body is composed of uniform tissue which is electrically equivalent to muscle. However, the Debye-type dispersion cannot approximate the actual muscle over the whole range because the actual muscle has gentler dispersion [38]. For this reason, the FDTD calculation was separated into those for three ranges of 3 to 30 MHz, 30 to 300 MHz, and 300 MHz to 3 GHz, and the parameters in (4.1) were determined for each range so as to be continuous at boundaries between neighboring ranges. As a result, discrepancy between actual and approximated values is within 10% over the whole frequency range. The specific values of the parameters are summarized in Table 4.1. Other computational parameters were also determined for each range, as summarized in Table 4.1, and the perfectly matched layer (PML) surrounds the computational domain except the plane of z = 0, simulating the earth ground.
Figure 4.5 plots the received open voltages normalized by the input voltage. The received voltage at the chest (the roughest broken line) is the largest and the most stable at any frequency. This is because the distance between the transmitter and the receiver is the shortest, and they are located in a line of sight. The level keeps flat below about 200 MHz and then increases with frequency. Considering that the distance between the transmitter and the receiver at the chest is r = 0.24 m, 200 MHz is the frequency when kr = 1, where k is the wave number in free space. In other words, quasi-static approximation is applicable if r < 1/k.

Table 4.1 Computational Parameters for Respective Frequency Ranges


Figure 4.5 Received open voltages normalized by the input voltage.

Figure 4.6 shows estimated input power of a transmitter when 1V input is assumed. It should be noted that the input power is very low at low frequencies as shown in Figure 4.6. This is owing to the fact that the input impedance of the transmitter is capacitive and the electric fields around the human body are the reactive field, not the radiating field. This is one of the features of the communications using the low frequencies.
It should also be noted that the assessment of the received open voltages is appropriate for low frequency because the receiving circuits for low frequency are expected to be of high input impedance in order to detect the reactive field. On the other hand, the impedance matching should be considered at a higher frequency; therefore, the assessment using the power transmission efficiency is essential. For the maximum power transmissions, it is necessary to consider the mutual coupling between the transmitter and the receiver. The matching condition can be found based on the conjugate impedance theory [40]. Without lengthy derivations, the ideal transmission efficiency can be expressed by self and mutual impedances of the transmitter and the receiver as follows:


(4.2)

where


(4.3)

and R11 and X11 are the real and imaginary parts of the self impedance of a transmitter Z11, and the same rule is applied to the self impedance of a receiver Z22, and the mutual impedance Z21. Figure 4.7 plots the ideal power transmission efficiencies. In contrast to the received open voltages, the power transmission efficiencies increases with decreasing frequency in a range below 200 MHz. This is due to the increasing input power with frequency, as shown in Figure 4.6.


Figure 4.6 Estimated input power when 1-V input is assumed.

According to the results shown in Figures 4.5 to 4.7, it can be concluded that the communications using low frequencies have advantages in terms of low power consumption and relatively high power transmission efficiencies.


Figure 4.7 Ideal power transmission efficiencies.

In this chapter, the authors evaluate the transmission characteristics of wearable devices using the human body as a transmission channel that operates at the HF band by using computer simulations and by experiments on a biological tissue-equivalent solid phantom.
In Section 4.2, in order to clarify the transmission mechanism, some calculation models of the transmitter attached to the human body are proposed using the FDTD method [31, 32]. In the first step, the electric field distributions inside and outside of realistic high-resolution whole-body voxel models of a Japanese adult male and female with average height and weight [33] are investigated. The transmission system described in the following sections uses a 10-MHz carrier frequency, so the wavelength, λ = 30m. A whole body calculation will be needed because the human body may resonate at around this frequency. As a result, there is no difference between the electric fields of a male and a female. Moreover, from the viewpoint of computer resources (memory, calculation time, etc.), the calculation area is limited to only the region of arm; this is because most of the electric field is concentrated near the tip of the arm.
In the next step, only the models of arm are used to simplify the calculation. The calculation models are a male arm, a female arm, and a rectangular parallelepiped homogeneous (muscle) arm that almost imitates the averaged-sized Japanese person from finger to elbow [34], respectively. From these results, the authors conclude that the simple homogeneous arm model is sufficient to evaluate the electric field distribution of the human body, although it does not include skin, fat, bone, and so forth.
In Section 4.3, calculated results are compared to the measured results by using a biological tissue-equivalent solid phantom [36] to show the validity of the calculation. A portable receiver was made and utilized in our measurements. This receiver can measure the received signal voltage directly without any outer measurement equipment, such as an oscilloscope, which would affect the measurement results. By attaching the receiver to the tip of the arm, electric field distributions and received signal levels are investigated. The reason for discussing the electric field distributions is that the received signal voltage of the receiver is calculated from the electric field. Therefore, the argument from the viewpoint of the electric field is essential. From these results, the effective direction of electrodes of the transmitter using the human body as a transmission channel is proposed.
In Section 4.4, after the validity of the calculation model was demonstrated in the previous section, the authors clarify the dominant signal transmission channel; this is because the question of whether the dominant channel is inside or outside the arm still remains unsettled. To answer this question, the calculation model of one arm wearing the transmitter and the receiver is placed into the hole of a conductor plate. The electric field distributions and received signal voltage are investigated with different gaps between the hole of the conductor plate and the surface of the arm when the signal passed through the hole in the conductor plate. If the dominant channel is outside the arm, the received signal is not generated when the gap between the conductor plate and surface of the arm does not exist. On the other hand, if the dominant channel is inside the arm, the received signal is generated in the same condition.
In Section 4.5, the authors conclude their studies concerning the transmission characteristics of wearable devices using the human body as a transmission channel.
4.2 Numerical Analysis of Communication Devices Using Low Frequencies
As described in Section 4.1, the communications using low frequencies have advantages in terms of power consumption and power transmission efficiencies. In this section, numerical analyses using a transmitter designed for 10 MHz are described.
4.2.1 Whole Body Models
Studies of wearable computers have recently attracted a great deal of public attention. It is thought that computing in the near future will be mainly performed through the interaction between wearable computers and ubiquitous computers. The communication system that uses the human body as a transmission channel has been proposed as one of these studies. When a user wearing the transmitter (shown in Figure 4.8) touches the electrode of the receiver, a transmission channel is formed via the human body. The transmitter has two electrodes: one is the signal electrode fed by an excitation signal (3 Vp-p, 10 MHz, sinusoidal wave), and the other is the ground (GND) electrode that is connected to the ground level of the electric circuit.


Figure 4.8 Wearable transmitter.

Figure 4.9 shows the calculation model of the transmitter. The authors have focused on the modeling of the transmitter for the FDTD calculations, and there has been considerable validity in that result [16, 20]. Two electrodes and circuit boards are modeled as perfect electric conductors. A continuous sinusoidal wave (3 Vp-p, 10 MHz) is fed to the signal electrode.


Figure 4.9 FDTD calculation model of the transmitter.

In our study, the transmitter uses a 10-MHz carrier frequency, and its wavelength is much longer than the height of the human body. In order to investigate the coupling between the transmitter and the human body, full-scale human models are utilized. Figure 4.10 shows the realistic, high-resolution, whole-body voxel models of a Japanese adult male (age: 22, height: 172.8 cm, weight: 65.0 kg) and female (age: 22, height: 160.0 cm, weight: 53.0 kg) [33]. The resolution of these calculation models is 2 mm × 2 mm × 2 mm. By putting these calculation models into the FDTD method, the electric field distributions inside and outside the whole bodies are investigated. The relative permittivity and conductivity of each tissue is equal to the value at 10 MHz [37]. The transmitter is attached to the wrist of the left arm. The size of the cells is Δx = Δy = Δz = 2 mm. The absorbing boundary condition is assumed to be Mur's second order, and the time step is 3.84 ps, satisfying the Courant stability condition.
Figure 4.11 shows the electric field distributions inside and outside the whole body of the male and the female. The observation plane includes the feeding point of the transmitter. From these results, it can be seen that most parts of the electric field are concentrated around the tip of the arm. Thus, only the arm model is needed to analyze the transmission between transmitter and receiver from the viewpoint of the computer resources (calculation time, memory, etc.). Moreover, this system has an advantage over those using airborne radio waves from the viewpoint of energy consumption. As a result, a communication system that uses the human body as a transmission channel is useful for personal area networks. In the next section, the differences in the transmission properties caused by the electrode structure will be considered in detail by using only the arm model.


Figure 4.10 Realistic high-resolution whole-body models of a Japanese adult: (a) male and (b) female [33].



Figure 4.11 Electric field distributions inside and outside the whole body: (a) male and (b) female.

4.2.2 Arm Models Wearing the Transmitter
In this section, only the arm model is used, which simplifies the calculation. The electric field distributions inside and outside the arms are calculated. The calculation models are a male arm, a female arm, and a rectangular parallel-piped homogeneous (muscle) arm that almost imitates the averaged-sized Japanese's arm from finger to elbow [34]. The size of the cells is Δx = Δy = Δz = 2 mm. The absorbing boundary condition is assumed to be Mur's second order, and the time step is 3.84 ps, satisfying the Courant stability condition. Figure 4.12(a) shows the electric field distribution of the cross section of the male arm. The observation plane includes the feeding point of the transmitter, and the value of the electric field is normalized by the electric field strength at the feeding gap. The electric field is propagated along the length of the arm. Most parts of the electric field are concentrated at the position of the transmitter. This transmission system using the human body as a transmission channel has the advantage of sending the signal merely by touching the electrode of the receiver. It is also advantageous from a security viewpoint because the signal is not radiated into the air but propagated along the length of the arm. Figure 4.12(b) shows the electric field distribution of the cross section of the female arm. The electric field distribution is almost the same as Figure 4.14(a), although the shape and thickness of the arm are different. Figure 4.12(c) shows the simplest calculation model, which is a rectangular parallel-piped homogeneous (muscle) arm. The electric field distributions of Figure 4.12(c) inside and outside the arm are almost the same as those of Figure 4.12(a, b), in spite of a homogeneous structure (not including items such as skin, fat, bone, and so forth, which have different electrical parameters). From these results, it can be concluded that the simplest calculation model in Figure 4.12(c) is sufficient to evaluate the electric field distribution of the human body. After this section, the rectangular parallel-piped homogeneous (muscle) arm is utilized to simplify the discussion on transmission properties.


Figure 4.12 Electric field distributions inside and outside the arm: (a) male, (b) female, and (c) homogeneous model (muscle).

4.2.3 Effective Electrode Structure
This section examines the effective electrode structure of the transmitter for using the human body as a transmission channel. To investigate the electric field difference due to the electrode structure, two types of the electrode structures are introduced. Figure 4.13 shows the calculation model of the arm with the transmitter. Figure 4.13(a) shows the electrode model with the GND electrode, and Figure 4.13(b) shows the electrode model without the GND electrode. The arm is modeled as a rectangular parallel-pipe (5 cm × 5 cm × 45 cm), and the electrical parameters are equal to those of the muscle (relative permittivity εr = 170.73, and conductivity σ = 0.62 S/m) [38]. The size of the cells is Δx = Δy = Δz = 1 cm. The absorbing boundary condition is assumed to be Mur's second order, and the time step is 19.2 ps, satisfying the Courant stability condition.
Figure 4.14 shows the result of the electric field distributions inside and outside the arm. The observation plane is the x-z plane at y = 0, and 0 dB indicates the strength of the electric field at the feeding point. Figure 4.14(a) shows that the electric field is distributed along the surface of the arm (approximately from −30 to −40 dB), because the current path is formed between the signal electrode and the GND electrode. However, in Figure 4.14(b), the level of the electric field on the surface of the arm seems low (approximately from −40 to −50 dB), and the electric field does not penetrate inside the arm. Therefore, the GND electrode is necessary to generate the electric field around the arm.


Figure 4.13 Calculation model of the arm wearing the transmitter: (a) Tx with GND electrode and (b) Tx without GND electrode.



Figure 4.14 Electric field distributions inside and outside the arm: (a) Tx with GND electrode and (b) Tx without GND electrode.

4.3 Experiments Using Human Phantoms
4.3.1 Model for Assessments
A phantom is a material that has the same physical property as biological tissues and the human body. Accurate measurements for the electromagnetic field distribution in the human body are conducted using various biological tissue-equivalent phantoms, such as liquid phantoms or solid phantoms, in which non-uniform models are applicable [39]. Figure 4.15 shows the model for the assessments, which indicates the direction of the transmitter. The transmitter has two electrodes. One is the signal electrode to feed an excitation signal (3 Vp-p, sinusoidal wave of 10 MHz), and the other is the GND electrode that is connected to the ground level of the electrical circuit. The direction of the transmitter is changed according to two patterns to compare the received voltages. One pattern is the longitudinal direction shown in Figure 4.15(a), and the other pattern is the transversal direction shown in Figure 4.15(b). Additionally, the conventional distance between the signal electrode and the GND electrode was 4 cm. However, its distance is reduced to 1 cm, so as to be less than the width of the arm. The experimental muscle-equivalent phantom used for the arm, which is modeled by a rectangular parallel-pipe (5 cm × 5 cm × 45 cm), has relative permittivity εr = 81 and conductivity σ = 0.62 S/m. Although the relative permittivity of the muscle at 10 MHz equals 170.73 [38], the authors have verified that they can use this phantom [20] because the received signal voltage is almost the same, and there is great difficulty in making a phantom with such a high relative permittivity. Moreover, in Section 4.2, the electric field distribution around the whole body model wearing the transmitter was investigated, and it was found that the electric field is concentrated around the arm. Hence, an arm model without the whole body can be used.


Figure 4.15 Direction of the transmitter: (a) longitudinal direction and (b) transversal direction.

4.3.2 Electric Field Distributions In and Around the Arm
Figure 4.16 illustrates the electric field distributions (root-sum-square) of both directions of the electrodes of the transmitter. The reason for discussing the electric field distribution is that the received signal voltage of the receiver is calculated from the electric field. Thus, the discussion from the viewpoint of the electric field is essential. The structure of the receiver is illustrated in Figure 4.17. The receiver has a receiving electrode and an LCD that can directly indicate the received signal voltage. The reason for having no GND electrode on the receiver is that it reduces the received signal voltage [17]. There is no optimal direction of the receiver because the receiver has only one electrode. Figure 4.17(b) shows the FDTD calculation model of the receiver. The receiving electrode and the circuit board are modeled as perfect electric conductors. The received signal voltage is calculated from the electric field at the receiving point. Therefore, this receiver does not detect the magnetic field, but only the electric field. The distance between the transmitter and receiver is fixed at 17 cm because the transmitter is located at the center of the arm and the receiver is located at the tip of the arm. The observation plane is the x-z plane, which includes the receiving point of the receiver. The electric field is normalized to the value at the feeding gap. In the case of the longitudinal direction of the transmitter in Figure 4.16(a), the electric field is propagated along the surface of the arm (from −50 to −60 dB). However, in Figure 4.16(b), the level of the electric field on the surface of the arm seems low (from −60 to −70 dB); the electric field is not propagated along the surface of the arm, but is radiated on the upper side of the arm. This result indicates a disadvantage for practical use, compared to Figure 4.16(a), in terms of higher signal reception. In addition, Figure 4.18 shows the electric field distributions without the arm. The loss of the electric field at the receiving point is quite large (< −80 dB) compared to the Figure 4.16. Therefore, it can be concluded that this transmission system uses the human body as a transmission channel.


Figure 4.16 Electric field distributions in and around the arm: (a) transmitter in the longitudinal direction and (b) transmitter in the transversal direction.



Figure 4.17 Structure of the receiver: (a) exterior of the receiver, and (b) FDTD calculation model.



Figure 4.18 Electric field distributions without arm: (a) longitudinal direction, and (b) transversal direction.

4.3.3 Received Signal Voltage of the Receiver
Figure 4.19 shows the measurement arrangements for the received signal voltage according to the direction of the electrodes of the transmitter. In order to verify the validity of the calculation models, the received signal voltage is compared to the measured voltage by using the biological tissue-equivalent solid phantom. In Figure 4.19(a), the transmitter is attached in the longitudinal direction, while in Figure 4.19(b), the transmitter is attached in the transversal direction.


Figure 4.19 Measurement conditions of the received signal voltage: (a) longitudinal direction and (b) transversal direction.

Figure 4.20 shows the comparison between the measured received signal voltages and the calculated voltages. Good agreement is noted and supports the validity of both the FDTD model and measurement. When compared to the received signal voltage for the longitudinal direction, the transversal voltage drops by nearly 10%. The received signal voltages without the arm are almost zero. The transmission system using the human body as a transmission channel has an advantage over transmission systems using airborne radio waves. Regarding the difference of the relative permittivity, the received signal voltages are almost equal. It is appropriate to use the phantom with εr set to 81 as a substitute for a phantom with εr set to 170.73.
In conclusion, the longitudinal direction is more effective for sending the signal to the receiver, as compared with the transversal direction. These investigations have made it clear that we can effectively use the human body as a transmission channel by guiding the current along the length of the arm.


Figure 4.20 Received signal voltage.

4.4 Investigation of the Dominant Signal Transmission Path
4.4.1 Calculation Model
In this section, the dominant signal transmission channel is investigated, because the question of whether the dominant signal channel is inside or outside the arm still remains unsettled. To answer this question, the calculation model of an arm wearing the transmitter and the receiver placed into a hole of a conductor plate is proposed. Figure 4.21 shows the calculation model of the arm with the transmitter and receiver using the FDTD method. The reason for constructing such a calculation model is as follows: if the dominant signal transmission channel is inside the arm, then the received signal will be generated when the gap g = 0. On the other hand, if the dominant signal transmission channel is outside the arm, the electric field from the transmitter will not propagate toward the receiver, but will be reflected at the position of the conductor plate when the gap g = 0. The dominant signal transmission path can be clarified by using this calculation model. The size of the conductor plate d is physically infinity, because it is attached to the absorbing boundary of the FDTD. The size of the cells is Δx = Δy = Δz = 1 mm. The absorbing boundary condition is assumed to be Mur's second order, and the time step is 1.92 ps, satisfying the Courant stability condition. The distance between the signal electrode and the GND electrode is set to the conventional size (4 cm). By using this model, the electric field distribution and the received signal voltage are investigated as a function of the gap g between the hole of the conductor plate and the surface of the arm.


Figure 4.21 Calculation model to investigate the dominant signal transmission path.

4.4.2 Electric Field Distributions and Received Signal Voltages
Figure 4.22 illustrates the electric field distributions (root-sum-square) inside and outside the arm. The observation plane is the x-z plane, and the y plane includes the receiving point. The electric field is normalized to the value at the feeding gap. Figure 4.22 (a, b) shows the electric field distributions when the gap g is −1 and 0 mm, respectively. It can be seen that the electric field is not propagated toward the receiver, but instead is reflected at the point of the conductor plate. However, in Figure 4.22 (c-f), as the gap g between the conductor plate and the surface of the arm becomes wider, the electric field is propagated more toward the receiver.

 
Figure 4.22 Electric field distributions inside and outside the arm wearing the transmitter and the receiver. (a) Gap g = −1 mm; (b) gap g = 0 mm; (c) gap g = 1 mm; (d) gap g = 5 mm; (e) gap g = 10 mm; and (f) without conductor plate.

Figure 4.23 shows the comparison between the measured received signal voltages and the calculated values as a function of the gap g. To measure the received signal voltages, the conductor plate with a size of 200 cm × 200 cm is used (d = 200 cm), as shown in Figure 4.24. When the size of the gap g ranges from −1 to 0 mm, the received signal voltage is almost zero. However, as the gap g between the conductor plate and the surface of the arm becomes wider, the received signal voltage rises sharply. The result shows a good agreement between the calculated and measured received signal levels, which indicates a considerable validity in both the FDTD and measurement. The reason for the difference of the received signal voltage between the longitudinal direction in Figure 4.20 and without the conductor in Figure 4.23 comes from the difference of the distance between the signal electrode and the GND electrode. In Figure 4.20, the distance between the signal electrode and the GND electrode is 1 cm. The circuit of the transmitter is almost shorted. Thus, the electric field generated from the transmitter is lower than the conventional size (4 cm).


Figure 4.23 Received signal voltage as a function of the gap g between the conductor plate and surface of the arm wearing the transmitter and the receiver.



Figure 4.24 Measurement condition.

On the basis of these results, the dominant signal transmission channel using the human body as a transmission channel is not inside the arm, but is on the surface of the arm because the signal seems to be distributed as a surface wave.
4.5 Conclusions
In this chapter, the authors have clarified the transmission characteristics of the wearable device using the human body as a transmission channel, from the viewpoint of the interaction between electromagnetic waves and the human body.
In Section 4.2, some calculation models were proposed using the FDTD method. The difference in the electric field distributions due to the electrode structures of the transmitter was estimated. As a result, it was found that the GND electrode of the transmitter attached to the arm strengthens the generated electric field around the arm.
In Section 4.3, calculation results were compared to the measured results by using the biological tissue-equivalent solid phantom to show the validity of the calculation. The results showed a good agreement between the calculations and the measurements. Setting the two electrodes of the transmitter in the longitudinal direction of the arm is more effective than setting the electrodes in the transversal direction.
In Section 4.4, the dominant signal transmission channel was investigated, because the question of whether the dominant signal channel was inside or outside the arm still remained unsettled. The results lead us to the conclusion that the dominant signal transmission channel of a wearable device using the human body as a transmission channel is near the surface of the arm, because the signal seems to be propagated as a surface wave. However, there is still been room for theoretical arguments and further study on surface propagation of this result.
References
[1] Weiser, M., "The Computer for the Twenty-First Century," Scientific American, September 1991, pp. 66-75.
[2] Zimmerman, T. G., "Personal Area Networks (PAN): Near-Field Intra-Body Communication," M.S. thesis, Cambridge, MA: MIT Media Laboratory, September 1995.
[3] Zimmerman, T. G., "Personal Area Networks: Near-Field Intra-Body Communication," IBM Systems Journal, Vol. 35, No. 3-4, 1996, pp. 609-617.
[4] IBM Web site, http://www.almaden.ibm.com/cs/user/pan/pan.html.
[5] Zimmerman, T. G., et al., "Applying Electric Field Sensing to Human-Computer Interfaces," Proc. CHI'95, May 1995, pp. 280-287.
[6] Post, E. R., et al., "Intrabody Buses for Data and Power," Proc. ISWC'97, October 1997, pp. 52-55.
[7] Fukumoto, M., and Y. Tonomura, "Body Coupled FingeRing: Wireless Wearable Keyboard," Proc. ACM CHI'97, March 1997, pp. 147-154.
[8] Handa, T., et al., "A Very Low-Power Consumption Wireless ECG Monitoring System Using Body as a Signal Transmission Medium," Proceedings of the 1997 International Conference on Solid-State Sensors and Actuators, Chicago, 1997, pp. 1003-1006.
[9] Matsushita, N., et al., "Wearable Key: Device for Personalizing Nearby Environment," Proceedings of the 4th International Symposium on Wearable Computers (ISWC 2000), October 2000, pp. 119-126.
[10] Doi, K., et al., "Development of the Communication Module Used Human Body as the Transmission Line," Proceedings of the Human Interface Symposium, 2001, pp. 389-392 (in Japanese).
[11] Hachisuka, K., et al., "Development of Wearable Intra-Body Communication Devices," Sensors and Actuators A: Physical, Vol. 105, No. 1, 2003, pp. 109-115.
[12] Shinagawa, M., et al., "A Near-Field-Sensing Transceiver for Intra-Body Communication Based on the Electro-Optic Effect," Proceedings of the Instrumentation and Measurement Technology Conference, May 2003, pp. 296-301.
[13] NTT redtacton Web site, http://www.redtacton.com/.
[14] Matsushita Electric Works Technology: press release (2004.09.13), http://www.mew.co.jp/e-press/2004/0409-02.htm.
[15] Fujii, K., K. Ito, and S. Tajima, "Signal Propagation of Wearable Computer Using Human Body as Transmission Channel," Proceedings of the 2002 Interim International Symposium on Antennas and Propagation, Yokosuka Research Park, Japan, November 2002, pp. 512-515.
[16] Fujii, K., K. Ito, and S. Tajima, "A Study on the Modeling of Communication System Using Human Body as Transmission Channel," Journal of the Institute of Image Information and Television Engineers (ITE), Vol. 56, No. 11, November 2002, pp. 1845-1849 (in Japanese).
[17] Fujii, K., K. Ito, and S. Tajima, "A Study on the Receiving Signal Level in Relation with the Location of Electrodes for Wearable Devices Using Human Body as a Transmission Channel," Proceedings of the 2003 IEEE International Symposium on Antennas and Propagation and USNC/CNC/URSI North American Radio Science Meeting, Columbus, OH, June 2003, pp. 1071-1074.
[18] Fujii, K., and K. Ito, "Evaluation of the Received Signal Level in Relation to the Size and Carrier Frequencies of the Wearable Device Using Human Body as a Transmission Channel," Proceedings of the 2004 IEEE AP-S International Symposium on Antennas and Propagation and USNC/URSI National Radio Science Meeting, Vol. 1, Monterey, CA, June 2004, pp. 105-108.
[19] Fujii, K., et al., "Study on the Optimal Direction of Electrodes of a Wearable Device Using the Human Body as a Transmission Channel," Proceedings of the 2004 International Symposium on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 2, Sendai International Center, Japan, August 2004, pp. 1005-1008.
[20] Fujii, K., K. Ito, and S. Tajima, "A Study on the Calculation Model for Signal Distribution of Wearable Devices Using Human Body as a Transmission Channel," IEICE Trans. on Commun., Vol. J87-B, No. 9, September 2004, pp. 1383-1390.
[21] Fujii, K., et al., "A Study on the Relation Between Surface Wave Component and Received Signal Level of the Wearable Device Using the Human Body as a Transmission Channel," Proceedings of the 2004 Korea-Japan Joint Conference on AP/EMC/EMT, Seoul, Korea, November 2004, pp. 271-274.
[22] Fujii, K., et al., "Study on the Transmission Mechanism for Wearable Device Using the Human Body as a Transmission Channel," IEICE Trans. on Commun., Vol. E88-B, No. 6, June 2005, pp. 2401-2410.
[23] Fujii, K., et al., "A Study on the Frequency Characteristic of a Transmission Channel Using Human Body for the Wearable Devices," Proceedings of the 2005 International Symposium on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 2, Seoul, Korea, August 2005, pp. 359-362.
[24] Fujii, K., M. Takahashi, and K. Ito, "Electric Field Distributions of Wearable Devices Using the Human Body as a Transmission Channel," IEEE Trans. Antennas Propag., Vol. 55, No. 7, July 2007, pp. 2080-2087.
[25] Hachisuka, K., et al., "Simplified Circuit Modeling and Fabrication of Intrabody Communication Devices," Sensors and Actuators: A Physical, A130-131, April 2006, pp. 322-330.
[26] Cho, N., et al, "The Human Body Characteristics as a Signal Transmission Medium for Intrabody Communication," IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory Tech., Vol. 55, No. 5, May 2007, pp. 1080-1086.
[27] Sasaki, A., and M. Shinagawa, "Principles and Demonstration of Intrabody Communication with a Sensitive Electrooptic Sensor," IEEE Trans. Instrum. Meas., vol. 58, no. 2, February 2009, pp. 457-466.
[28] Minotani, T., and M. Shinagwa, "Compact Wideband Printed Diversity Antenna for Mobile Handsets," Proceedings of the 2010 Asia-Pacific Radio Science Conference, Toyama, Japan, Sepember 2010.
[29] Haga, N., and K. Ito, "Frequency Dependence of On-body Channels with Top-loaded Monopole Antennas in the Range of HF to UHF," Proceedings of the Asia-Pacific Microwave Conference, Singapore, December 2009, pp. 2208-2211.
[30] Sony Computer Science Laboratories, Inc. Web site: http://www.csl.sony.co.jp/index.shtml.
[31] Yee, K. S., "Numerical Solution of Initial Boundary Value Problems Involving Maxwell's Equations in Isotropic Media," IEEE Trans. on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. AP-14, No. 3, 1966, pp. 302-307.
[32] Uno, T., Finite Difference Time Domain Method for Electromagnetic Field and Antenna Analyses, Tokyo, Japan: Corona Publishing, 1998.
[33] Nagaoka, T., et al., "Development of Realistic High-Resolution Whole-Body Voxel Models of Japanese Adult Male and Female of Average Height and Weight, and Application of Models to Radio-Frequency Electromagnetic-Field Dosimetry," Physics in Medicine and Biology, Vol. 49, 2004, pp. 1-15.
[34] Kouchi, M., et al., "Human Body Dimensions Data for Ergonomic Design," Report of National Institute of Bioscience and Human Technology, Vol. 2, No. 1, 1994.
[35] Ogawa, K., Y. Koyanagi, and K. Ito, "An Analysis of the Effective Radiation Efficiency of the Normal Mode Helical Antenna Close to the Human Abdomen at 150 MHz and Consideration of Efficiency Improvement," Electronics and Communications in Japan, Part 1, Vol. 85, No. 8, 2002, pp. 23-33.
[36] Matsuda, T., Hyperthermia Manual, Tokyo, Japan: Magbross Press, 1991, pp. 155-156 (in Japanese).
[37] FCC Web site, http://www.fcc.gov/fcc-bin/dielec.sh.
[38] IFAC Web site, http://niremf.ifac.cnr.it/tissprop/.
[39] Okano, Y., et al., "The SAR Evaluation Method by a Combination of Thermographic Experiments and Biological Tissue-Equivalent Phantoms," IEEE Trans. on Microwave Theory and Techniques, Vol. 48, No. 11, November 2000, pp. 2094-2103.
[40] Roberts, S., "Conjugate-image Impedances," Proc. of the I.R.E., Vol. 34, No. 4, April 1946, pp. 198-204.










CHAPTER 5
Ultrawideband Technology for Body-Centric Wireless Communications

Akram Alomainy, Qammer H. Abbasi, Yang Hao, István Kovács, Gert Pedersen, Patrick Eggers, Maciej Klemm, Andrew Fort, Philippe De Doncker, and Peter S. Hall
5.1 Overview
The chapter presents analyses and investigations on various types of ultrawideband (UWB) antenna used in characterization of the on-body channel and their direct effects on channel behavior and subsequently on system designs. Experimental investigation of UWB on/off-body radio propagation with respect to different links and body postures is demonstrated. Statistical channel modeling based on empirical data is derived and analyzed with respect to various body links and antenna parameters. The introduced models are applied in predicting the performance of potential UWB wireless systems and their applications in body-centric networks towards the end of this chapter. We present novel aspects and research results in the field of simulation, measurement and modeling of the UWB antennas and radio channels in body-centric user scenarios.
The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) approved a promising radio technology that is Ultrawideband. It operates primarily in the frequency range between 3.1 GHz to 10.6 GHz with a 7.5-GHz band, maximum power spectral density of −41.25 dBm/MHz and a maximum transmit power of −2.5 dBm [1-4]. UWB can be regarded as an extreme case of spread spectrum technology, which offers flexibility, robustness, high-precision, and location tracking with accuracy in the subcentimeter range. Moreover, critical factors like extremely low power consumption, scalable data rates, high throughput, and extended communication range can also be principally achieved with UWB technology. Due to long spreading code sequence, UWB devices work below the noise floor so that jamming becomes extremely difficult, a property beneficial particularly for applications such as intrusion detection. UWB has excellent potential for radio reusability.
Antennas are inherent part of any wireless communication system, and for UWB antennas there are several additional requirements which have to be fulfilled for body-centric applications in terms of both physical size and radiation characteristics in the proximity of the human body. Due to these antenna requirements, the clear distinction between the radio link components (i.e., transmit antenna, channel, and receive antenna) is neither always possible nor always practical. In Section 5.2, we address these issues and present simulation and measurement methodologies for an accurate analysis of small UWB antennas.
The body-centric UWB channel investigations aim at disclosing the characteristics of the propagation phenomena in typical user scenarios. Traditional channel measurement and simulation techniques developed for narrow band and wideband cellular systems cannot be directly used, due to constrain in electrical size of the devices and the near field propagation effects inherent in body centric system. While numerical simulations allow independent study of the radio link components, in the empirical investigations with real antennas the separation is not possible anymore. Section 5.3 introduces the methodologies used for static and dynamic channel investigations based on simulations and experimental set ups. Typical test user scenarios are proposed in order to better understand the body-centric propagation phenomena.
To design a suitable and efficient radio interface for the wireless body-centric network, an understanding of existing standards is required. The UWB radio frontend could be used for the same applications targeted for other short-range wireless systems; however, at higher data rates with lower emitted radio frequency (RF) power and less complexity in transceiver designs. For physical layer design and optimization purposes, an appropriate radio channel model, including antennas has to be developed. The body-centric channel models derived (based on extensive antenna and radio channel investigations) are introduced and applied to system-level modeling of multi-user access technology, such as orthogonal-frequency division multiplexing (OFDM), as discussed in Section 5.4.
The presented research results give a look into the research work undertaken within the body-centric community for specific issues and possible solutions. Efficient and small-size UWB antenna designs for future sensors and devices are certainly a challenge to be tackled. Further radio channel investigations and parameterization, including all complex effects of the around-the-body propagation phenomena, are required in order fully understand the communication medium and to be able to optimize the next generation body-centric wireless communication radio transceivers.
5.2 UWB Antennas for Body-Centric Wireless Communication
In a UWB radio system, antenna plays a more important role than it does for a conventional narrowband system. In such a system, the antenna behaves like a filter in both spatial and frequency domains, and tends to introduce signal distortion and degradation if not carefully designed [1, 2]. Unlike its narrowband counterpart, the design of the UWB antenna is determined not only by its return loss characteristics, but also by its ability to preserve the pulse shape as it employs the unorthodox carrier-free modulation. Antennas for UWB systems are required to have very broad impedance bandwidth, and stable and constant channel transfer response. Ordinary wideband antennas will cause distortion to transmitted short pulses because they radiate various components from different parts and hence experience sever frequency-dependent changes in their phase center [5]. When designing UWB antennas, group delay must be taken into account. If the phase is linear throughout the frequency range, the group delay will be constant, and hence delivered pulses will be transmitted in all directions with no distortion. Any strong resonance at any frequency of the UWB antenna response causes large group delay variation and thus causes distortion in the pulse shape which in turn affects the pulse fidelity factor of the antenna performance [4]. So, it is not reasonable to design ultrawideband antenna with multiple deep resonance as far as pulse fidelity is concerned. A very wide operational fractional bandwidth of UWB systems makes the design and evaluation of antennas more difficult than in narrowband systems
The majority of the UWB antenna designs for communication systems are all derived from a monopole/dipole [4-7], are tapered slot antennas [8, 9], or are loop antennas [10]. For practical and low form factor implementations, generally the printed planar designs of these antennas are proposed. Ceramic chip antenna designs also exist, using a dipole configuration. The sectorial loop antenna has been proposed as a compact integration solution [11]. Recently, a purely textile UWB annular slot antenna was reported [12].
In this section, we focus our attention on the UWB antennas for the body-centric applications where the design becomes more complicated than for free-space operation scenarios. This is due to the additional form factor constrains and possibly different radiation characteristics targeted.
5.2.1 Design and Analysis
5.2.1.1 Antenna Parameters
The very wide bandwidth of UWB systems makes the design and evaluation of antennas more difficult than for narrowband systems. Traditional narrowband parameters characterizing antennas, such as return loss, radiation pattern, and polarization, are not directly useful in characterization of UWB antennas. Therefore, UWB antennas need to be evaluated using other specific parameters, adapted to the large frequency bandwidth and possibly to the targeted UWB system type. The spatial frequency domain transfer function of the antenna is the most commonly used parameter. Equivalently, UWB antenna can be characterized in the time domain, based on the impulse response. Together with the waveform driving the antenna, the frequency transfer function allows also to quantify radiation characteristics of a given UWB antenna design.
In the following sections, we will introduce a set of parameters, which were found to be useful when analyzing the UWB antennas presented later in Section 5.2.1.2. Naturally, in the design process the traditional antenna parameters should be considered as well, such as radiation efficiency, impedance matching.
Frequency Domain Transfer Functions
The antenna transmit- and receive-transfer functions can be defined as [13]:


(5.1a)



(5.1b)



(5.1c)

where the expressions for HRX (ω, θ, φ) and HRX(ω, θ, φ) are the frequency- and angle-dependent transmit and receive transfer functions and they relate the radiated electric field intensity Erad(ω, θ, φ) (for a given polarization) to the antenna driving waveform Vin(ω), and the received voltage on the load Vrec(ω) to the incident electric field Einc(ω, θ, φ), respectively. Both transfer functions include antenna matching.
Signal Fidelity
Based on the frequency, or time transfer function, we are able to calculate pulse distortions introduced by an antenna. In time domain formulation, the fidelity between waveforms x(t) and y(t) is generally defined as a normalized correlation coefficient [14]:


(5.2)

The fidelity factor, F, compares only the shapes of the cross-correlated waveforms but not their amplitudes. In practice, this factor is calculated for a given direction in space in order to fully characterize the spatial radiation properties of an antenna. It should be noted that the fidelity depends on the antenna characteristics and on the excitation signal, thus it is a system dependent parameter.
Impulse Response and Time Spread
All UWB antennas have a given impulse response that may affect the actual system design, depending on the bandwidth and time domain signal shape. Additionally, the impulse response of an UWB antenna is also spatial direction-dependent.
For time domain UWB systems, a helpful parameter describing signal distortion introduced by a UWB antenna is based on the time window enclosing a given energy level of the radiated or received pulse. Since we are interested in capturing as much energy as possible, we compare length of time windows, which include 99% of the pulse energy, W99. The time spread is a ratio, E99 (θ, φ), between the 99% energy time window lengths of the radiated pulse, W99rad (θ, φ), and the antenna input pulse, W99inc (θ, φ). It shows how much the energy of the pulse is spread compared to the input pulse. Based on the E99 (θ, φ) parameter, one can calculate the energy spread of the pulse (radiated or received) and use this information in the system design; for example, to obtain optimal performance with energy detector receivers. In Section 5.4, we will present the results from channel measurements also in terms of the 90% energy delay window, W90.


(5.3)


5.2.1.2 UWB Antennas for Body-Centric Applications
For more specific applications, such as WBANs, the antenna design becomes more complicated than for simple free-space operation scenarios, due to the presence of complex human body medium. Most examples in the literature consider the antennas as part of the propagation system and apply common and widely available antenna types to characterize the channel. However, antennas with different radiation characteristics lead to different channel parameters. In particular, the use of a vertically polarized UWB monopole, rather than a planar antenna, reduces the attenuation but increases the time spread of the signal. The human body is very lossy at microwave frequencies and there is no direct transmission through the body; the near-field and far-field radiation characteristics of the UWB antennas play an important role in the body-centric signal propagation. Therefore, UWB antennas for body-centric applications need special attention due to the proximity of the user's body.
For applications where both low-power transmit and receive devices are located on the body or clothing, the antenna near field's characteristics significantly contribute to the propagation phenomena and the antenna design has to favor the signal propagation along the surface of the body, and minimizing the power losses due to absorption in the body. In applications with communication between body-worn sensors and a larger unit, which is not necessarily always located on the body (e.g., a PDA, mobile phone, PC-laptop, or other device), the far-field antenna radiation characteristics are also important and a certain directionality is desired for the body-worn antennas.
It is important to note that in both of the practical application cases described above, the antennas are placed in the far-field distance. Therefore, there is no need to analyze the near-field propagation channel, which is the typical case for near field communication systems.
The interaction between the human body and an antenna is a complicated problem, and needs to be investigated by means of full-wave numerical electromagnetic solvers. Limited evidence exists in the literature about investigating an impact of the human body on UWB antenna characteristics [15-18]. The first UWB body-mounted antenna design with highly decreased sensitivity to the presence of the human body was presented in [19].
In another study, the self-complementary antenna (HSCA) [20] and the planar inverted cone antenna (PICA) [21] were applied in an extensive measurement campaign to provide a clear picture of antenna characteristics influence on propagation channel behavior [7]. Different antenna types are expected to have dissimilar effects on the radio channels especially in the body area network where the transmitter and the receiver are in close proximity. Hence, antenna near-field characterization is also needed and is discussed in [18].
A few representative UWB antenna designs with small form factor used in recent body-centric radio propagation investigations. Monopole and dipole antennas are easy to model and analyze, thus they are used as reference antennas. Commercially available UWB antennas are suitable for body-centric radio investigations, and are in essence low-profile monopoles, thus we will not be addressing them in this section. Figure 5.1 presents example of compact and low-profile UWB antennas suitable for body-worn applications [22].


Figure 5.1 Antennas for body-worn applications. From left to right: tapered slot, swan-shaped monopole, and planar inverted cone antenna [22].

Planar UWB Disc Monopole Antenna
The antenna geometry is a planar disc monopole and is given in Figure 5.2. This planar UWB monopole antenna was designed with the criteria of an impedance bandwidth from 3 to 6 GHz with a return loss below -10 dB. It is easy to design a UWB monopole antenna when considering only the impedance bandwidth. But it is difficult to achieve the same radiation pattern bandwidth due to the significant changes in the antenna pattern at higher frequencies [23]. Plots of the return loss and the H_{TX} function (in direction of maximum radiation) of the UWB disc monopole antenna are shown in Figure 5.3.


Figure 5.2 Example UWB planar disc monopole antenna (dimensions in mm) [19].



Figure 5.3 Return loss and transmit transfer function for the UWB planar disc monopole antenna in Figure 5.2.

Slot Antenna
Another possibility of designing an omnidirectional antenna is the slot configuration. In this example, the antenna is a slot cut in the ground plane, fed by two symmetrically placed 100Ω smicrostrip lines, which are connected in parallel to the 50Ω feed line. This feeding topology provides very wideband matching for slot and stacked patch antennas [24, 25]. Figure 5.4 shows the slot antenna designed to operate in the lower FCC UWB band between 3 and 6 GHz. Due to the small ground plane dimensions compared to the slot dimensions, the antenna has a quasi-omnidirectional radiation pattern in an XZ plane. In Figure 5.5, we present the return loss and transmit frequency transfer function.


Figure 5.4 Example of omnidirectional UWB slot antenna (dimensions in mm) [19].



Figure 5.5 Return loss and transmit transfer function for the omnidirectional slot antenna in Figure 5.4.

A textile UWB annular slot antenna was proposed that can achieve the same performance as the traditional versions, manufactured using standard PCB technologies [12]. The new feature of this antenna is that it can easily be integrated into clothing, rather than being attached, thus providing first the step towards integration of the electronic elements into clothing, and realization of the so-called system-on-textile (SoT).
Directional Slot Antenna
As mentioned earlier, for certain low-power body-centric applications it would be desirable to have an antenna with directional far-field radiation characteristics and low near fields radiated towards the body, thus reducing the influence of the body.
In body-centric scenarios, a directive antenna should still be omnidirectional in the plan of the largest dimension along the body surface, and should have a moderate front-to-back ratio in the plane of the smallest dimension, perpendicular to the body surface. This configuration does not need any specific pointing direction of the antennas, while still allowing good signal transmission and reception in the directions along the body surface [19].
The geometry of the designed directional UWB slot antenna is shown in Figure 5.6, which is based on the omnidirectional slot antenna presented in Figure 5.3 and the desired far-field directionality is obtained by adding a reflecting element below the feed line. The small spacing between the reflector and the antenna feed has a great impact on the radiation pattern and on the input impedance of the antenna. The physical operation of this directional UWB slot antenna and more details about its design and performances can be found in [19]. The return loss and the transmit transfer function are shown in Figure 5.7.


Figure 5.6 Low-profile UWB directional slot antenna design (dimensions in mm) [19].



Figure 5.7 Return loss and transmit transfer function for the directional slot antenna in Figure 5.6.

Tapered CPW-Fed Slot-Coupled Monopole Antenna
A far as the design of a UWB antenna is concerned, a broadband impedance matching network is needed and it can be achieved by employing two tapered radiating slots at the end of the CPW feeding line by gradually varying the feed-gap and with the help of a pair of tapered radiating slots [64]. The antenna in Figure 5.8 uses a waveguide and radiating slot which are inseparable. The antenna is fabricated on RT/Duroid board substrate with thickness 1.524 mm and relative permittivity of 3. The total antenna size is 2 7 × 16 mm. Unlike the traditional CPW-fed antenna, the tapered slot antenna is designed to allow for the smooth transition of line impedance. The ratio of semimajor to semiminor axis within the design is the most significant parameter to affect the impedance matching [64]. The return loss of the antenna in free space and when placed on the body is shown in Figure 5.9.


Figure 5.8 Tapered slot-fed monopole UWB antenna design [64].



Figure 5.9 Return loss for the tapered slot-fed monopole UWB antenna in Figure 5.8 in free space and when placed on the body.

5.2.1.3 Performance Aspects of UWB Antennas for Body-Centric Applications
In Figures 5.10 and 5.11, we present the comparison of the far field free-space radiation pattern for the UWB antennas presented in Section 5.2.1.1: disc monopole antenna (Figure 5.2), slot monopole antenna (Figure 5.4), and directional slot antenna (Figure 5.6). Compared to the monopole and slot antennas, the UWB directional antenna radiates much more power into the upper hemisphere, for example, in the direction away from the body.

  
Figure 5.10 Comparison of far-field free-space radiation patterns of a monopole, omnidirectional slot, and directional slot antennas [19]: (a) XZ plane at 3.5 GHz, (b) XZ plane at 4.5 GHz, (c) XZ plane at 6 GHz, (d) YZ plane at 3.5 GHz, (e) YZ plane at 4.5 GHz, and (f) YZ plane at 6 GHz.


 
Figure 5.11 Far-field free-space pulse distortion metrics (see (5.1) and (5.2)) in the upper radiation hemisphere (away from the body) for different UWB antennas [19]: (a) planar disc monopole (see Figure 5.2), (b) omnidirectional slot (see Figure 5.4), and (c) directional slot (see Figure 5.6).

For these three antenna designs, a pulse distortion analysis has also been performed using (5.1) and (5.2). The following quantitative free-space angular characteristics have been analyzed:


99% energy window (E99), relative to the input pulse;


99% energy window(E99), relative to the pulse radiated in the direction of maximum gain;


The fidelity factor of the radiated pulses (F), using the pulse radiated in direction of maximum gain as the reference waveform [19].


Representative results of this pulse distortion analysis are presented in Figure 5.11. It should be noted that all these parameters depend on the shape of the pulse driving the antenna. In our example, we used a modulated Gaussian pulse with main frequency of 5 GHz and effective pulse length of 160 ps, giving a m10 dB pulse bandwidth between 3 to 7 GHz.
We can see that along XZ plane all antennas have fidelity above the commonly acceptable level of 90%. This indicated that all radiated pulse for spatial directions along XZ plane are alike. It is not the case for the YZ plane, where fidelity is lower, and not symmetrical along this cut plane. This effect is especially visible in the case of the UWB disc monopole antenna.
Considering pulse distortions based on time window with 99% of the pulse energy, we can see that directional antenna introduces higher spatial variations of the 99% energy time windows, compared to the omnidirectional antennas. Angular spread of the 99% energy time windows is important if one is interested in applications where any relative position between transmit and receive antennas is possible such as in typical body-centric scenarios.
5.2.1.4 Body-Proximity Induced Radiation Characteristics and Performances
When operating in a body-centric communication system, the antenna is mounted in close proximity of the human body. It is known that the body has a significant impact on the antenna characteristics [15, 26-29, 30, 31]. Thus, it is important to include the human body model in the antenna design process. For the antenna performance results, we have used two different truncated models of the human body:


A three-tissue model, consisting of layers of skin (1 mm thick), fat (3 mm thick), and a muscle tissue (40 mm thick);


A homogeneous model, composed of a muscle tissue (44 mm thick).


Overall dimensions of both models are the same: 120 × 110 × 44 mm3. This size for the truncated body model was found by comparing the simulation results in terms of antenna radiation characteristics [19].
To show the effect of the human body on the antenna characteristics, we have simulated the planar disc monopole antenna (Figure 5.2), the omnidirectional slot antenna (Figure 5.4), and the directional slot antenna (Figure 5.6), as presented in Section 5.2.1.2, with the addition of the truncated human body models presented above. For all antennas we assumed the same distance of 7 mm between the body surface and the antenna feed line. This separation distance, for frequencies between 3.5 and 6 GHz, lies well within the reactive near field region [32] for all antennas under consideration. It is important to note that for the directional UWB slot antenna, the reflector lies 6 mm below the feed line, thus the effective separation between the reflector and the body surface is only 1 mm.
Figure 5.12 shows the return loss and transmit transfer function (direction of maximum gain) characteristics of UWB antennas are when operating: in free space and 7 mm away from a muscle tissue or three-layer tissue body model.

 
Figure 5.12 Comparison of the return loss (S11) and transmit transfer function characteristics, for UWB antennas operating in free space and in body proximity [19] for (a) the planar disc monopole,( b) the omnidirectional slot, and (c) the directional slot. The transmit transfer function is presented for the direction of maximum gain and is normalized to the same value for all antennas.

The impedance bandwidth of the directional UWB slot antenna is almost the same when operating in a free space and close to the human body. The only noticeable difference exists for frequencies below 3.5 GHz. For the omnidirectional UWB slot and monopole antennas, the impedance is greatly changed due to body proximity, and is different with different body models.
Considering transmit transfer functions, we can clearly see that the directional UWB antenna is much less influenced by the human body proximity, compared to the omnidirectional antennas (monopole and slot). For the directional UWB antenna, all three transmit transfer functions; that is, for free-spacemuscle tissue three-layer model cases, are almost identical above 3.5 GHz, thus one can expect very similar performances for different on-body positions. For both omnidirectional antennas, higher amplitude of transmit transfer function is observed for frequencies above 4 GHz in spite of a low radiation efficiency. This is due to a strong reflection from the human body.
Clearly the transmit transfer function and return loss results in Figure 5.12 can be applied to the receive antenna as well. The observed variations of the transfer functions for the omnidirectional antenna, when in the proximity of the body, are clearly dependent on the body separation distance. When the position of the devices using these antennas varies in time (body movements, etc.) then the transmittedreceived signal will be modulated by the amplitude/phase changes of the transmit and receive transfer functions, thus have to be considered in the system design. With the directional antennas, these variations in the transfer functions are greatly minimized and can be safely disregarded when designing the UWB communication link. From system design point of view the results in Figure 5.8 in terms of the signal distortion parameters are also important.
The selected UWB antenna designs presented have been also characterized in terms of: their radiation efficiency and peak SAR values (1g averaged) and representative results are presented in Table 5.1.

Table 5.1 Radiation Efficiency and Peak 1g Averaged SAR Values of UWB Antennas in the Proximity (7 mm) of a Three-Tissue Body Model
The first main result in Table 5.1 is that antenna performance in terms of the radiation efficiency and SAR has been improved for the directional UWB slot antenna, compared to the omnidirectional UWB slot and monopole antenna. Nevertheless, at lower frequencies there is still significant amount of power absorbed by the body, thus directivity in not necessarily a good solution, for body-worn antennas. The reason is that antenna directivity is actually a far-field measure, and does not say much about near fields of an antenna. It may happen that even if an antenna is directional in one particular solid angle, there can be strong near fields in the direction the human body is located.
The second result in Table 5.1 shows that the radiation efficiency of all antenna types tends to increase with frequency. However, one should be very careful; do not treat this statement as general conclusion for any types/sizes of antennas. As it was shown in [16], where small UWB patch antennas in proximity (the reactive near field region) of the same body models were studied, results can be different depending on the antenna size and body separation distance. Moreover, when comparing body models, better efficiencies were generally obtained when the layered model was used.
As a further illustration to the results presented in Table 5.1, we present the power absorbed (in W/m3) in the skin layer (where the maximum absorption occurs) of the three-layer human body model, at 4.5 GHz. Figure 5.13 shows results for the omnidirectional and directional slot antennas, normalized to the same absolute value. It is visible that with the use of the reflector element, near fields are scattered, resulting in a lower power deposited in the tissue.


Figure 5.13 Power [W/m3] absorbed in the skin layer of the three-layer human body model at 4.5 GHz for (a) the omnidirectional slot antenna and (b) the directional slot antenna. The distance between the skin and the feed lines was 7 mm.

5.2.2 Measurements
The UWB radiation patterns of the antennas discussed in Section 5.2.1 were measured using a 3-D spherical antenna measurement system [33, 34], very suitable for measurement of a spatial transfer function, as well as for radiation efficiency measurement (free-space and body-worn antennas). Spherical time domain measurements can be performed not only in anechoic rooms, but also in an indoor environment, since the time gating can be used to extract unwanted reflections. A disadvantage, compared to frequency domain measurements, is a reduced dynamic rage of the system [35].
In traditional antenna measurements, the antenna is connected to the measurement equipment with a coaxial cable. This setup is perfectly suited for electrically large antennas. The major problem when measuring electrically small antennas is the current induced on the outer surface of the connected cable. This effect causes the cable itself to act as a radiator and both the near- and far field radiation characteristics of the antenna are significantly changed [36-38].
While the effects of the feed cables can be eliminated or significantly reduced in a case of narrow-band antennas [40, 41], it becomes a very difficult task when measuring with small UWB antennas [37]. One possible method of reducing an influence of the cable attached to an UWB antenna is to attach the cable in areas of low current density [41]. A new method for measurements of small-size wideband and UWB antennas uses an RF on fiber optic link (transmitter and receiver) instead of the usual conductive cable feed connections [36, 38, 42]. This setup does eliminate the cable connection to the antenna and can be used for both channel measurements and antenna measurements in the radio anechoic room. However, the proposed RF on fiber setup also adds two new components, which have to be mounted on the antenna: the optic receiver and its battery power supply. In the case of, for example, the directional slot antenna, full-wave electromagnetic simulations have shown that, in order to minimize the distortions of the radiation patterns, the extra components have to be mounted with their largest dimension perpendicular with the radiating slot and such that the largest electrical dimension of the original antenna is not extended. If the polarization discrimination of the antenna is also of interest then a suitable compromise has to be found between the obtainable crosspolarization and directivity of the final setup [19].
As an example of measured radiation pattern performance of UWB antenna when placed on the body, Figure 5.14 shows the azimuth plane radiation patterns of the tapered CPW-fed slot-coupled antenna (Figure 5.8) at 3, 6, and 9 GHz, respectively. The antenna exhibits omnidirectional behavior across the band, except that it is slightly directional at 3 GHz due to the comparable size of the antenna and the SMA connector plus cable end. The gain ranges from -2 to 2 dBi for the tapered slot antenna [64]. The on-body radiation performance is also investigated by placing the antennas on the center of the human trunk and repeating the pattern measurements for the specified frequencies, as shown in Figure 5.14. Due to the presence of the lossy human body (with increased conductivity at high frequencies), the antenna front to back ratio is significantly increased to 25 to 30 dB. When placed on the body, the antenna directivity is expected to be higher than free space cases caused by reflections of propagating waves from the human body; however the efficiency is decreased. Hence the antenna gain varies slightly depending on the frequency of operation; for example, at 3 and 6 GHz the gain of the body-worn antennas is higher than free space value, as shown in Figure 5.14.


Figure 5.14 Normalized radiation patterns of the TSA in free space (solid line) and on-body (dashed line) [64].

The reader has to note here that, given the small electrical size of the antenna, any electrically conductive components (i.e., connector, cables, or integrated components) mounted in the real device have strong influence on the antenna radiation characteristics. Therefore, analyzing only the performances of the antenna itself or with a different electrical setup can give significantly different results from the real-life radiation characteristics in the final application. More details about the integration of the UWB antennas into wearable sensors, or handheld terminals, can be found in [43, 44].
5.2.3 Concluding Remarks
In this section, several practical issues have been presented with regards to the analysis, design, and measurement of and with small form factor UWB antennas for body centric applications. It was shown that UWB antennas should be evaluated be means of specific parameters, adapted to the large frequency bandwidth and possibly to the targeted UWB system type, such as frequency domain transfer function, signal fidelity, and impulse response.
Two omnidirectional and one-directional UWB antenna designs have been presented: a planar disc monopole antenna, a slot antenna, and a directional slot antenna. The radiation characteristics and performances of these antennas in the targeted body-centric scenarios, such as antennas mounted in the close proximity of the human body, have been analyzed via numerical simulations. The results, in terms of the signal fidelity, SAR, and radiation efficiency, show significant improvement in the case of the directional slot antenna design.
5.3 Channel Simulation and Measurement Methodology
5.3.1 Simulation of the Radio Propagation in Body-Centric Communication Scenarios
In Chapter 2, we presented the propagation modeling methods and electrical characteristics of the human tissues, which are generally used for simulations of onbody or around-the-body propagation scenarios.
Finite difference time domain (FDTD) has several advantages that are useful for analyzing the UWB propagation environment around the human body. By transmitting a time domain Gaussian monocycle, for example, a wide range of frequencies is solved in only one simulation run facilitating ultrawideband propagation analysis.
On the other hand, compared to the low-frequency case discussed in Chapter 4, it is difficult to accurately recreate the full human body in a practical UWB simulation space due to its complex shape and structure with several different tissue layers. An anatomically correct model of a body is provided by the Visual Human project of the National Library of Medicine [45]. The mesh for this body model is accurate to within 5 × 5 × 5 mm allowing frequencies up to 6 GHz to be simulated correctly around the body.
Antenna models are generally not used in the full body simulations. Accurate modeling of small UWB antennas requires a very fine grid resolution making simulation over the entire body prohibitively complex. Rather, an electric field is generated directly by applying a voltage across one of the FDTD cells. This allows investigating signal path loss versus distance trends, but will not take into account losses due to the near fields of real antennas.
An example of UWB propagation simulation setup is given in Figure 5.15. We will also use this example for our discussion on the body area radio propagation phenomena in Section 5.4.3. All channel parameters are extracted from nine simulations performed in planes separated by 4 cm along the z-axis of the torso (see left diagram of Figure 5.15). For each of these nine simulations, the transmitter is placed on the front of the torso. The electric field is observed in the x-y plane at several positions separated by 4 cm around the human torso (see right diagram of Figure 5.15). To increase the number of points for extracting channel statistics, observations one plane above and one plane below the transmitter are recorded in each simulation. In this way, a total of 570 data points are taken at various positions.
The radio channel parameters change depending on the position around the body. To describe this phenomenon easily, one can define three main angular regions representing the front (0 to 60°), side (60 to 160°), and back (160 to 180°) locations on the body, as shown in Figure 5.15.


Figure 5.15 Body area simulation setup example showing the positions of the transmitter (square on the front of the body) and the receiver (circles around the body) [46, 47]. Measurements were taken in several planes shown on the left. Front, side, and back regions were analyzed separately.

5.3.2 Measurement of the Radio Propagation in Body-Centric Communication Scenarios
Practical alternatives to the numerical simulations for the around-the-body channel investigations are the radio measurements. Unlike FDTD simulations that are limited by computational complexity, channel measurements can be used to capture and determine the influence of a larger radio environment on the around-the-body signal propagation. Furthermore, measurements inherently include the effects of the real UWB antennas, thus giving a more realistic set of results. Several different on-body antenna positions/scenarios can be applied in the measurements, illustrating possible body movements and potential on-body positions for the devices used.
Typical radio channel measurements can be performed either with body phantom models [42, 48] and/or with real test subjects [3, 42, 46, 47, 49, 50]. The more commonly used body phantoms are inherently simplified replicas of the real human body, and these simplifications can have significant impact on the measured channel characteristics, especially at high frequencies and large fractional bandwidths, as in the case of UWB signals. Some of the body phantoms types that can be used in radio propagation measurements have been described in Chapter 2.
The radio channel measurements with body phantoms are generally static investigations; for example, the body phantom (either its limbs or the entire phantom) is not moved in the given propagation environment during one channel sounding test. The radio channel investigations using a body phantom have as main advantages the good repeatability of the measurement results and easier availability for lengthy investigations.
With test subjects the results from the investigations can provide good statistical data for scenarios, which are very close to real-life end user scenarios in terms of device/terminal handling and user movements. However, in this case it is more challenging to precisely reproduce the measurement results due to motion of the body, and difficulties controlling the exact position of the antenna and body.
As opposed to the investigations with a body phantom, the radio channel measurements with test users can also be dynamic investigations (i.e., the user) can move in the given propagation environment during channel sounding and the timevariant channel can be measured. In order to take advantage of this possibility, the measurement equipment has to accommodate the expected Doppler shifts in the radio channel estimated at the UWB upper frequency.
Traditionally for UWB radio channel measurements, due to the large fractional bandwidth required, a vector network analyzer (VNA) is used and the complex frequency transfer function of the channel (S21 parameter) is recorded for a large set of discrete frequencies. While this is appropriate for static UWB measurements, for time-variant UWB channel investigations other solutions need to be employed that allow higher channel sampling rates. One option is to sound the channel with a high bandwidth pulse, similar to the FDTD simulations, and then detect/digitize the received signal [2, 51]. Another alternative is to use a time domain channel sounder with an appropriate bandwidth and center frequency [48, 50, 52-54]. The time domain radio sounding set-ups generally allow measurements on several parallel channels, thus more complex, ad hoc communication scenarios can be investigated, such as MIMO, interference, and relaying. In addition to the aspects discussed above, there are several other channel measurement practicalities to be considered in the body-centric channel investigations, similar to the traditional, narrow and wideband channel investigations, such as transmit power, type of antennas, and multiple (distributed) antenna elements setups.
In terms of specific body-centric measurement equipment setup, the terminals and devices used as transmitter and receiver have to allow the user relatively high freedom and natural movement. This implies the use of light, thin RF cables with good phase stability [49], or alternatively, the use of the RF on fiber setup for the experiments where it is desirable to have more control on the radiation characteristics of the antennas/devices [38, 42, 48]. Experiments show that the radio environment in the near range of the user (human body) can strongly influence the propagation channel [3, 38, 42, 47, 49, 55]. Thus, for isolating only the radio propagation channel characteristics due to the human body, the measurements have to be performed either in an anechoic room [7, 18] or in an environment with only distant radio scatterers [3, 47, 49]. Although the indoor UWB radio propagation channel has been extensively studied and presented in the literature [56-58], the body-centric propagation phenomena are still not fully characterized in both time and time-delay domain [3, 47-49, 57].
In the following sections we give practical examples of body-centric UWB channel investigations with both static and dynamic user. We will highlight the most important aspects of the measurement methodologies used and summarize the channel parameters possible to measure with a given experimental setup.
5.3.2.1 Static Channel Investigations
Figure 5.16 shows a typical VNA experimental setup to measure the static propagation channel near the body [3, 7, 42, 49, 59]. A VNA is used to measure the frequency transfer function between two antennas placed at various positions on a human body. The two antennas are connected to the VNA using low-loss coaxial cables. Due to the high path loss around the body in some of antenna locations, a wideband amplifier can be used to increase the signal-to-noise ratio. To extract time-delay domain channel parameters, the VNA measurements are converted by first applying a frequency domain windowing (e.g., a Hamming window) to reduce side lobes and then applying an inverse Fourier transform. Before each set of measurements, the VNA is calibrated with the amplifier included in the chain so that any deviation from the flat frequency response specification is removed.


Figure 5.16 Setup showing the connection of the antennas to the VNA. A power amplifier can be used to increase the signal to noise ratio. A portable laptop computer can be used to control the VNA via a general purpose interface bus (GPIB).

The measurements were made either in an anechoic chamber [7, 59], in a large empty room [3, 42, 49] so that reflections off of the walls arrive later than the components diffracting around the body, or in a normal office room [59]. The around -the-body diffracted multipath components (MPCs) arrive at the receiver after 0.5 to 2 ns, depending on the position on the body. The earliest reflected MPCs are due to the ground and arrived after 8-10ns. Reflections off the rest of the surrounding radio environment arrive considerably later and these MPCs can easily be identified and separated from propagation near the body.
Commercial low-profile UWB antennas [22] have been used for most of the body-centric measurements [3, 42, 49, 59]. These antennas were chosen since they represent the kind of form factor and profile requirements typical of comfortable body-worn sensor devices. Other investigations have been performed with larger antennas, such as the horn-shaped self-complementary (HSCA) and the planar inverted cone antenna (PICA) [7, 18].
Examples of scenarios with antennas mounted on the body are shown in Figure 5.17. For the example, in Figure 5.17(a), the same setup is used as for the simulations presented in Figure 5.16. However, due to practical difficulties, fewer distances around the body can be analyzed in the measurements. For the investigations in the anechoic chamber 22 different body scenarios and positions have been used in order to disclose the antenna characteristics influence on propagation channel behavior (see Figure 5.17(b)). Furthermore, the experiments showed that the distance between the body and the small-sized antennas has a dramatic influence on the path loss and should therefore be carefully controlled, as exemplified in Figure 5.18.
Similar measurement setups, as presented in Figure 5.17, have been also used for investigating the effects of different arm movements and arm positions. These kinds of investigations have been carried out in both frequency domain (e.g., Figure 5.16) [1, 38, 42, 47], and in time domain (see Section 5.3.2.2) [48].


Figure 5.17Example of measurement scenarios with various antenna positions mounted on the body: (a) setup on front of body, used for simulations/measurements reported in [3, 46, 47], and (b) antenna positions for on-body channel characterization in anechoic chamber reported in [7, 18]. The boxes indicate transmitter positions, while the circles indicate receiver positions.



Figure 5.18 Example of monopole antenna mounted on body. A dielectric is used to control the separation with the body and elastics are used to hold it firmly in place [3, 46, 49].

Rather than studying only the early MPCs due to diffraction around the body, the MPCs due to reflections off of the radio environment arriving after the diffracting waves can be also investigated. In these scenarios, the structure of the radio environment is important. As an example, the indoor office layout used in the following discussions is given in Figure 5.19 [49].


Figure 5.19 Example of floor plan of the office environment showing the location of measurement grids. Walls around the office are framed with metal studs and covered with wooden boards. The 9 user locations used are labeled alphanumerically from A-I [49].

The experimental procedure proposed in Figure 5.19 involves automatically taking measurements between antennas worn on a person at the various marked locations in the room. The transmitting antenna is placed on the front of the body, and the receiver is placed on either the front of the body (10 cm distance), the right side of the body (20 cm distance), or the back of the body (45 cm distance), as in Figure 5.16. In all cases, the antennas are separated from the body by 5 mm, as described in Figure 5.17. For these experiments, both the transmitting and receiving antenna were worn on the body at a height of 120 cm from the floor and 160 cm from the ceiling. At each of the nine locations in the room, 100 ns long impulse responses are measured at 49 points arranged in a fixed-height 7 × 7 square grid with 5 cm spacing covering 35 × 35 cm [47, 57]. In general, the average power obtained in each of the nine measurement grids is used to obtain large-scale signal statistics, while the variation over one measurement grid is used to obtain small-scale signal statistics.
In addition to the above measurement scenarios, investigations were carried out using the tapered CPW-fed slot-coupled antenna (see Figure 5.8) to mimic next generation healthcare scenarios, where the carer and patient might adopt various postures and orientation. A diagrammatic representation is shown in Figure 5.20 [64].


Figure 5.20 Dimensions and geometry of the Body-Centric Wireless Sensor Lab (housed within the School of Electronic engineering and Computer Science, Queen Mary, University of London, UK) where the indoor radio propagation measurements for the presented work is performed and also illustrated the measured scenarios locations and orientations. The Sensor Lab height is 3 meters [64].

Similar results can be obtained from dynamic channel measurements, where the test person actually moves in the given environment during the experiments following natural walking patterns. In this case, the small-scale signal statistics can be extracted from the measurements over a time span in which the large-scale structure of the channel can be considered constant.
A dynamic measurement procedure has the advantage of tracking how the channel structure will change due to the motion of nearby scatterers (such as the arms and legs) and provide estimates of the channel stationarity/variance in nonstationary radio propagation conditions.
5.3.2.2 Dynamic Channel Investigations
In this section we present recent investigations of the body-centric radio channels using moving/walking users. These dynamic channel investigations focused on both, personal area (distance ranges up to 10m) and body area (i.e., on-body distance ranges up to 1m) scenarios. In order to obtain more general results, typical user scenarios and several indoor radio environments have been chosen. The results from this type of investigation, similar to the traditional narrow and wideband channel measurements, allow the analysis of the time domain characteristics of the propagation phenomena.
Clearly, in the case of moving terminals, the scattering environment "seen" by the antennas is also changing as a function of time and speed of the user. Given the large signal bandwidth, these changes can have more significant influence on the UWB propagation channel compared to the case of narrow/wideband channels. Time domain channel aspects can be directly estimated from the dynamic measurements using user movement tracks and normal walking patterns. In principle, the same time/space domain characteristics can be derived from static measurements as described in Section 5.3.2.1, provided that the spatial sampling rate used is high enough and the radio environment does not change significantly between the consecutive measurements, which are taken at significantly larger time intervals compared to the dynamic measurements.
The time domain radio channel measurements presented herein were conducted with a 16-channel UWB swept time delay correlation channel sounder [48, 50, 53]. The measurement bandwidth was 2.5 GHz centered at 4.5 GHz. The radio channel sampling rate (time domain) was 20 Hz, which accommodates the expected channel change rate at the normal indoor walking speeds of 0.25 m/s to 0.5 m/s (at 5GHz). This setup is fast enough to extract small-scale channel characteristics. However, the time between subsequent measurements (50 ms) is too slow to track the evolution of the channel over a single UWB communication burst. The dedicated measurement set-up allowed the full separation of all the 16 simultaneously measured radio links and the measured channel impulse response data was compensated for all system components, except the antennas. The details for the measurement set-up can be found in [48].1
The envisaged personal area network (PAN) scenarios include both mobileto- mobile communications, between two moving users with handset size devices and mobile-to-stationary communications, between a moving user with handset size device and a stationary PC-laptop size device. In our following discussions, all these PAN scenarios are referred to as PAN with mobile devices (PAN-MD), and we will focus our analysis on the radio channel results for the mobile-to-mobile case only.
In the PAN mobile-to-mobile scenarios, simultaneous measurements with four users were performed: two users with handsets as transmitters and two users with handsets as receivers. The transmitter handsets, each with two antenna elements, were equipped with RF on fibre connections in order to improve the handling and mobility of the users. The distances between the transmitter and receiver handsets ranged from 1m up to 6m. For reference, additional sets of static free-space measurements-without the movement along the routes and without user-proximity-have been performed with the handsets mounted at the same height and orientation as in the user-proximity scenarios. Representative combinations of handset locations along the user's route have been used.
Figure 5.21 shows the handset use cases investigated in the body-centric mobile- to-mobile scenarios. Three main cases have been considered: handheld, PDA-held, and belt-mounted. The main difference between these scenarios is that the user hand/body proximity is in the near field of the antennas. In the handheld use case, the antennas were mostly free, while in the PDA-held case, they were partly covered by the user's fingers or hand. In the belt-mounted case, the large dielectric body in the antenna near field changes significantly the monopole antenna radiation properties.


Figure 5.21 Handset scenarios for PAN-MD radio channel investigations [48, 50]: (a) dual antenna configuration in the handsets and (b) handset use cases.

As already discussed in Section 5.3.2.1, in the case of the BAN scenarios, several body-worn device positions are required in order to obtain statistically significant results. For the BAN channel investigations with users following a natural movement pattern, the body-worn devices have been used in five different scenarios: legs, arms, lower torso, upper torso, and two headset setups, as depicted in Figure 5.22 [48]. Each body-worn device had a directional slot antenna element as described in Section 5.2, and was used as transmitter equipped with the RF on fiber setup in order to maximize the accuracy of the obtained channel data [38]. For receiver, a handset size device was used equipped with two UWB monopole antennas similar to the set up in the PAN-MD investigations (see Figure 5.16(a.)).


Figure 5.22 Body-worn scenarios for BAN radio channel investigations with dynamic users [48]: (a) body-worn device and antenna (b) body-worn device use cases.

For BAN investigations, reference measurements can be performed with a body phantom, such as a cylindrical body phantom (without limbs) as described in [1, 42] was used for reference measurements in representative locations (start, middle, and end) of each user route [48].
The radio environment determines the main characteristics of the propagation channel even for short range communication systems. For the PAN-MD and BAN scenarios presented herein, the channel measurements have been performed in: a laboratory/professional environment, a corridor environment (confined area), and small/medium size office environments. For example, Figure 5.23 shows the layout for the laboratory/professional environment and the corresponding user movement paths. The test users in the PAN-MD and BAN scenarios were moving at normal walking speeds between 0.25 m/s and 0.5 m/s. Although the walking paths were predetermined (linear or spot) the test users used their own natural walking patterns. The walking speed has been determined based on the average walking time on a given path.


Figure 5.23 Example layout for the office type radio environment in the PAN-MD and BAN channel investigations with walking users (Kovács2005c, MAGNET2005) [47, 49].

In addition to the dynamic measurements done above, a good approximation would be to apply static movements in a clearly designed sequence to mimic pseudo-dynamic cases. This indicates simpler measurement settings by applying frequency domain measurements [65]. Figure 5.24 shows a measurement setting to study the effect of pseudo-dynamic scenarios on the on-body radio channel. The two antennas are connected to a vector network analyzer to measure the transmission response (S21) in the frequency range of 3 to 9 GHz. The data was collected at intervals of 3.75 MHz, with a sweep time of 800 ms. Measurements were first performed in the anechoic chamber to eliminate multipath reflections from the surrounding environment, and then repeated in the Body-Centric Wireless Sensor Lab at Queen Mary, University of London (see Figure 5.20) to consider the effect of the indoor environment on the on-body radio propagation channel.
For the belt-to-wrist link, four different body movements were performed [65]:


From arm along the body, to straight in front and return in the initial position;


From arm along the body, to straight laterally and return in the initial position;


Arm straight in front of the body, moved from the left to the right in front of the body and return in the initial position;


Random arm and body movements.


For the belt-to-ear link, three different body movements were performed:


Head moved from the left to the right clockwise and anticlockwise;


From body standing still, to leaning forward and return in the initial position;


Random arm and body movements.


For the belt-to-chest case the following movements were performed:


From body standing still, to leaning forward and return in the initial position;


Movement of the torso clockwise and counter-clockwise;


Random arm and body movements.


For the belt-to-ankle case, measurements were collected while the subject was pacing back and forth.


Figure 5.24 On-body locations of the transmitter and position of the receiver for the pseudodynamic analysis done to characterize movements' effect on UWB body-centric radio channels [65].

5.3.3 Concluding Remarks
In this section, we have presented the simulations and measurement methodologies currently used for the UWB body-centric radio propagation investigations. Examples of simulation methods and practical measurement set ups have been reviewed highlighting the importance of a careful design of the on-body experiments: scenario on-body classifications, antenna types and their positioning relative to the human body (or their model), large scale radio environment analysis, and user dynamics. While simulation can be generally performed with numerical tools, such as FDTD, and allow a very precise body structure modeling, important antenna radiation characteristics are difficult to include. On the other hand, appropriately designed measurements, can provide accurate parameters of the complex on-body propagation channel including realistic radio environments, various antenna designs, and user dynamics.
The different signal analysis procedures have been also presented. They form the basis of the channel characterization and modeling results presented next, in Section 5.4.
5.4 Channel Characterization and Modeling
The results from the UWB radio channel investigations—simulations and measurements— described in Section 5.3 are used throughout this section in order to describe and explain the radio propagation mechanism in body-centric WPAN and WBAN scenarios. From a radio propagation point of view, the main characteristic of these body-centric scenarios is that both the transmitter and the receiver side of the communication link are in a relatively dense, scattering environment that includes the human body proximity. This also represents the main novelty in the channel investigations and models presented that are relative to the majority of existing UWB PAN channel models proposed in the literature [54, 56-58].
We have to note here that, although the parameters for a modified Saleh-Valenzuela UWB model [56, 57, 60] have been extracted and analyzed for the results presented in the followings, this parameterization can still be an ambiguous procedure. For example, definitions of the channel feature signal clusters and the associated thresholds (above the noise level or measured from the impulse response peak) used to extract them can differ greatly between researchers.
5.4.1 General Aspects
The general description of the parameters for the modified Saleh-Valenzuela UWB channel model can be found in [56, 57]. Here, we use the same notations as in the IEEE 802.15.3a and highlight only the differences introduced. In this section, we present a quantitative description of the average channel power delay profile and of the associated large-scale parameters. A more detailed analysis can be found in [3, 7, 18, 46, 48, 49, 53, 55, 60]. For convenience, the parameters and notations used in this Section are listed in Table 5.2.
A convenient characterization of the UWB multipath propagation channels is the discrete-time impulse response model [51, 54, 58, 62]. In this model, the time axis is divided into small time intervals called "bins." Each bin size is generally chosen to be the resolution of the measurement/simulation, since two paths arriving within a bin cannot be resolved. In this case, we assume that each bin contains a single multipath component (MPC) with amplitude corresponding to the energy in that bin. In the investigations where the CLEAN algorithm has been used to extract the channel impulse response parameters, the final model is a discrete-time impulse response with a bin size corresponding to the original measurement bandwidth. This bin size was obtained by applying a CLEAN algorithm with a "dirty beam" sampled at the original time-delay resolution of the channel.
Three main characteristics were identified which differentiate the analyzed body-centric channels from the traditional UWB LOS/NLOS channels reported in the literature [56, 57]. The first main characteristic is the dual slope power decay in time-delay domain for the average cluster peak power with two different and environment dependent decay factors, Γ1 and Γ2, below and above an excess delay threshold, Tenv, respectively;


(5.4a)

and:


(5.4b)

We have to note here that a similar modeling approach was proposed for the IEEE 802.15.4a WPAN channel, with a linear increase of the intracluster power decay rates with excess delay, in dense/industrial radio scattering environments [57]. In our channel model proposals, the intercluster power decay follows (5.4) while the intracluster power decay is modeled as exponential with a constant decay rate, γ, within the entire impulse responses.
From independent experimental investigations (static and dynamic), the excess delay threshold, Tenv, was found to vary in the range of 25 ns, as reported for the PAN-MD and BAN scenarios in [48, 53] up to 40 ns, reported for the BAN scenarios investigated in [47, 49]. In both investigations, the Γ1 < Γ2 relationship has been disclosed, although the difference between the two decay factors was different in the PAN-MD and BAN scenarios. Furthermore, as described in Section 5.4.2, this dual slope phenomena was also observed in the free space (i.e., without user proximity or PAN-MD scenarios).
A possible explanation for the observed dual slope time-delay decay of the PDP expressed in (5.4) resides in the inhomogeneous scattering around the antennas due to the interaction between the antenna radiation patterns, which are far different from the omnidirectional characteristics used in earlier UWB investigations, and the dense scattering environment in which both transmit and receive antennas are immersed. This dual slope characteristic of the PDP is, however, still a topic for further investigation.
In the PAN-MD scenarios [48, 53], due to the dominant horizontal orientation of the antenna elements (monopoles, see Figure 5.21) the shortest signal paths transmitted/received at low angles, relative to the direct line between the antennas, are significantly attenuated by the antenna radiation patterns, even in the freespace scenarios. The next 2 to 3 signal clusters up to 25 ns excess delay (7.5m excess distance) are transmitted/received at larger angles and although are more attenuated due to scattering are also radiated/received with less antenna attenuation compared to the first signal clusters. This combination yields the relatively low signal attenuation rate determined between the first 3 to 4 signal clusters in the PAN-MD scenarios. At higher excess delays, beyond 25 ns, the influence of the antenna radiation patterns is lower due to the propagation through multiple scattering and a high cluster attenuation rate is observed. Although, in the userproximity scenarios the antenna radiation characteristics are changed slightly, the general signal cluster attenuation trend is the same.
In the BAN scenarios, the antenna radiation patterns exhibit certain directivity characteristics either due to the proximity of the body, as in the case of the monopole antennas (see Figure 5.18) [46, 47], or because of their special design, as in the case of the directive slot antennas (see Figure 5.6) [19, 48]. The dual slope time-delay decay was predominantly determined when both transmit and receive antennas were placed on the same side (front) of the body. The basic explanation given for the PAN-MD scenarios is plausible also for the BAN scenarios, with the main difference that the first signal cluster is due to diffraction around the body and the next 2 to 3 signal clusters are generally received due to scattering from the ceiling and floor areas in the near range of the user.
The second main characteristic is the different cluster fading factors for the two time-delay regions in the user-proximity scenarios. In all of our dynamic scenarios, PAN-MD and BAN, the signal clusters were found to follow a lognormal power distribution in time domain, similar to IEEE 802.15.3a/4a models [56, 57]. However, the standard deviation values for the cluster fading were found to be in general higher than proposed in the IEEE 802.15.3a/4a models. Additionally, in the mobile-to-mobile PAN-MD scenarios higher cluster fading was detected in the first time-delay region, T < Tenv, compared to the second region, T ≥ Tenv. This radio channel characteristic is discussed further in Section 5.4.2.
A third important aspect, which needs to be analyzed for the radio channels with moving users, is the time/space-domain channel decorrelation time/distance. In the IEEE 802.15.3a/4a PAN and BAN channel models time domain aspects are not included [56, 57]. In the UWB PAN-MD and BAN channel investigations with moving/walking users, the stationary behavior of the channel was analyzed with respect to the large-scale wideband power decorrelation time/distance. Within this decorrelation time interval the channel was also found to exhibit in average similar time-delay signal clustering characteristics (power and time-delay) [48, 50].

Table 5.2 Main Channel Parameters and Notations Used for the UWB PANMD and BAN Channel Characterization and Modeling
5.4.2 Personal Area Network Scenarios
The UWB mobile-to-mobile communication scenarios have been recently investigated and a channel model proposal is available [48, 50] as an enhancement to the existing channel models [53, 54, 56-58, 63].
In this section we briefly summarize the main results from these UWB mobile- to-mobile channel investigations (PAN-MD) described in Section 5.3.2.2. The channel impulse responses corresponding to all user movement routes in a given environment have been combined and analyzed together in order to obtain statistics over all user locations along the routes. Furthermore, to obtain statistics over all possible user device scenarios, handheld, PDA-held, and belt-mounted (see Figure 5.22) in a given environment, these data sets have been combined and analyzed together. The latter averaging was possible because the results showed relatively small variations of the extracted channel parameters over the different user device scenarios. A customized subtractive clustering algorithm together with a simple sensor-CLEAN processing for signal ray extraction, have been used for the extraction of the time-delay parameters [48]. The signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) range in the measurement data was 15 to 25 dB.
For these PAN-MD scenarios, we will analyze and present the following main characteristics, which can be used to enhance the existing static, time-invariant UWB PAN channel models:


Large-scale time/space channel de-correlation aspects;


Fading statistics of the individual signal clusters and of the total wideband power;


Signal cluster power decay and signal cluster arrival rate.


The detailed analysis of the other channel parameters (signal ray statistics, etc.) can be found in [48, 50].
5.4.2.1 Large- and Small-Scale Fading
In order to identify the small and large scale fading processes in the PAN-MD channel, first the channel stationarity has been analyzed on representative data sets. The autocorrelation function of the wideband power has been used to test the channel stationarity over different time spans.
Figure 5.25 shows the average autocorrelation functions of the wideband power determined for the user-proximity scenarios in the three environments investigated.2 As mentioned earlier, these environments differ in the spatial density/distribution of the radio scatterers, and this can been seen also on the autocorrelation curves in Figure 5.25.


Figure 5.25 Wideband power autocorrelation functions for the mobile-to-mobile scenarios in the investigated environments.

With the channel sampling rate of 20 Hz and the user speed of 0.5 m/s, consecutive channel samples (spaced 2.5 cm) can be considered fully decorrelated in terms of wideband power, thus the autocorrelation curves in Figure 5.19 are dominated by the large-scale signal fading. Based on these results, it is concluded that, on average, a large-scale fading decorrelation time interval of 0.5s can be considered for all PAN-MD scenarios (at 0.7 correlation level). This time interval corresponds to 10 consecutive measured channel impulse responses and to an average spatial decorrelation distance (along the user movement track) of approximately 0.25m. Within this time/distance interval, the small-scale signal fading can be considered a stationary process. Additionally, the 10 consecutive channel impulse responses also have similar time-delay clustering characteristic, which is a direct result of a similar distribution of the main radio scattering sources (as "seen" by the antennas) during the 0.5s time interval.
The APDPs are calculated using 10 consecutive measured channel impulse responses. Although the correct Doppler sampling rate has been used, this low number of impulse responses did not allow the extraction of reliable small-scale statistics within each APDP. For the modeling of the small-scale channel characteristics, within the 0.5s/0.25m time/distance interval, the distributions types in the IEEE802.15.3/4a channel model proposal could be used, possibly with a different set of parameters [56, 57].
Table 5.3 lists the parameters for large-scale signal statistics of the signal clusters and the wide band power in the investigated environments. In the user-proximity scenarios (US), the average wideband power trend along a given user route is removed when calculating the standard deviations values listed in Table 5.3. In the static free-space measurements (FS), only a low number of spatial positions along the routes have been used, thus the large-scale wideband power fading statistics could not be reliably extracted. In a given location, only very small wideband power fluctuations, up to 1 dB have been measured. The signal cluster fading in FS scenarios could be analyzed more reliably when using the total of 4 to 7 clusters detected per APDP.
In the time/space-domain, the cluster's peak power distribution was determined to be close to lognormal, and independent fading was observed for the extracted clusters similar to earlier proposals. The cluster fading was extracted relative the averaged cluster peak power level over all average PDPs along the user route or free-space locations.
In the user-proximity scenarios, with two moving users, for the clusters in the first time-delay region the fading standard deviation is significantly higher than in the second time-delay region, σc1 > σc2 in Table 5.3. This is the effect of the simultaneous dual dynamics in the radio channel, with two users moving and both inducing independent lognormal large-scale fading. The signal cluster fading in the first delay region, mostly determined by the body proximity, is stronger than determined in the IEEE 802.15.4a NLOS PAN channel [57]. In general, the cluster fading standard deviation values in the PAN-MD free-space scenarios are in the same range as specified for the IEEE 802.15.4a LOS PAN channel [57].

Table 5.3 Large-Scale Fading Parameters for the Mobile-to-Mobile Radio Channels in the Free-Space and User-Proximity Scenarios
5.4.2.2 Power Delay Profile
Figure 5.26 shows examples of average channel power delay profiles and the detected signal clusters corresponding to the determined average large-scale decorrelation time interval of 0.5s (10 consecutive impulse responses) in the mobile-to-mobile scenarios. Table 5.4 lists the main time-delay channel parameters extracted from the APDPs.
A possible explanation for the lower cluster power decay factor in the first excess delay region up to Tenv = 25 ns (see (5.4)) has been already given in Section 5.4.1. It is worth to note the differences in terms of power decay factors between the three investigated radio environments. While in free-space conditions there is little influence of the radio environment on this channel parameter, in the user-proximity scenarios the power decay factor increases when the radio environment becomes more and more confined (laboratory, corridor, and office, respectively) indicating a significant interaction between the user body, antennas, and environment.
A comparison with the IEEE 802.15.3a [56] channel model proposals highlights the main difference in the signal clustering in the proposed PAN-MD model. On average, 3.3 times higher signal cluster arrival rates and 3.5 times higher signal ray decay factors within the clusters have been determined in the PAN-MD scenarios compared to the CM3/CM4 NLOS PAN models. These differences are mainly due to the radiation patterns and orientations of the UWB antennas used. The antennas used in the IEEE investigations had vertical orientation and an omnidirectional pattern over the entire frequency band, although this was not the case for the antennas in the PAN-MD measurements. An important factor in the extraction of these parameters is also the definition of the feature "signal cluster." In the processing of the PAN-MD data, the clusters were extracted based on a power-delay clustering algorithm while they were visually identified for the IEEE channel model proposal. Inherently, these two methods can yield the identification of different signal clusters sets within the same average power delay profile.


Figure 5.26 Example of measured average channel power delay profiles and detected signal cluster peaks in the Laboratory environment for free-space (FS) and user-proximity (US) mobile-to-mobile scenarios.


Table 5.4 Main Time-Delay Parameters for the Mobile-to-Mobile Radio Channels in the Free-Space and User-Proximity Scenarios From: [48, 50].
5.4.2.3 Time/Space Variant Channel Modeling Aspects
The detailed PAN-MD channel model parameters and description are available in References [48, 50]. The proposed channel model for the scenarios with dynamic users utilizes the main parameters listed in Table 5.3 and Table 5.4. A time domain impulse response generation procedure based on the determined large-scale correlation properties presented in Section 5.4.2.1 is proposed: for example, consecutive channel realizations in one decorrelation time interval of 0.5s have the same largescale fading factor and the same average time-delay clustering characteristics. Due the movements of the antennas/users, when the signal shadowing is changed, the signal time-delay clustering is also changed. The correlation level between consecutive large-scale wideband power fading factors is extracted from the curves given in Figure 5.25, or alternatively, can be considered completely independent.
A more precise time/space-variant modeling of the signal clustering has been proposed in [48], and is based on a hybrid statistical and quasi-deterministic environment modeling. The topic is, however, still subject of further investigations, especially for the PAN user-proximity scenarios.
In Table 5.5, we give a comparison between the statistics of the most widely used channel parameters obtained from PAN-MD measurements and simulations. All delay parameters listed were determined to exhibit a normal distribution, with a mean (<>) and standard deviation (STD) determined over all the user routes, terminal types, and scenarios in a given environment. The comparison in Table 5.5 shows a good match between measurements and simulations for the wideband power shadowing and the average RMS delay spread. While the RMS delay spread values are mainly determined by the signal clustering, the 90% energy window parameter is much more sensitive to the detailed signal power distribution in the channel impulse response, a structure which is generally difficult to match in simulations. The large relatively large σ values in the simulations are due to the variable length impulse response generation procedure.
5.4.3 Body Area Network Scenarios
The UWB radio propagation around the human body is a complex phenomenon, although it takes place over only very short distance ranges. For communication between two devices placed on the human body, transmitted signals can arrive at the receiver in three ways:


Propagation through the body;


Diffraction around the body;


Reflections from nearby scatterers in the radio environment.


This section is structured as follows: Section 5.4.3.1 focuses only on the propagation around the body, while Section 5.4.3.2 extends these results to include the influence user arm movements in terms of wideband power fluctuations. The influence of several indoor environments is presented in Section 5.4.3.3 based on results available from both static (frequency domain) and dynamic (time domain) channel investigations. Finally, based on the presented results, a complete channel model is proposed in Section 5.4.3.4.

Table 5.5 Comparison of Channel Parameters Extracted from Measurements and Simulations in User-Proximity, Mobile-to-Mobile Scenarios
5.4.3.1 Propagation Around the Body
Signals in the gigahertz frequency range diffracting around the body attenuate due to absorption by human tissue. In addition, the original transmitted signal spread out in time due to the frequency dependent dispersion by the antenna-body system. This attenuation and signal spreading likely depends on a number of random factors including the curvature of the body, the exact position of the antennas, the position of the arms, the type of materials along the various signal paths, and so forth.
In the following sections, we describe the path loss, power delay profile and time-delay parameters, respectively, from several investigations reported in the literature [3, 7, 18, 42, 46, 47, 49, 55]. Since signal paths near the body are independent of the surrounding environment, the results presented in this section are generic and can be applied to any typical indoor or outdoor scenario.
Path Loss
Simulation results indicate that very little signal propagation takes place through the body in the GHz frequency range. Instead, the radio waves are diffracting around the torso. Therefore, in calculating the path loss, we propose to measure the distance around the perimeter of the body [46]. Based on the results from FDTD simulations described in Section 5.3.1, Figure 5.27 shows an example of electric field snapshot around the torso, in the horizontal plane, taken 5 ns after transmitting a pulse.


Figure 5.27 Simulated electromagnetic field snapshot around the torso. Different colors represent the magnitude of electric field [46].

Figure 5.28(a) shows the path loss versus distance trend extracted from the numerical simulations [46], while Figure 5.28(b) shows the same plot extracted from the measurement set-up described in Section 5.3.2 [47]. To allow for easy comparison with measured results, the simulated path loss is shifted so that it equals the mean measured path loss at a reference distance of 0.1m and the distances are measured around the perimeter of the body. Clearly, the path loss increases with distance as expected, and there is a large variance around the mean path loss. These simulation results do not incorporate losses due to the antenna since the electric field is generated by applying a voltage across an FDTD cell.
The measured on-body path loss strongly depends on the radiation patterns of the antennas used. To exemplify this result, Figure 5.29 presents the path loss values measured in the anechoic room and the modeled path loss curves as a function of distance, for the investigations using a horn shaped self-complementary antenna (HSCA) and a planar inverted cone antenna (PICA) [7, 18].


Figure 5.28 Simulated (a) and measured (b) path loss versus distance measured around the human body [46, 47, 49]. Circles and crosses indicate individual measurements. The path loss model is obtained by a best-fit procedure.



Figure 5.29 Measured and modeled path loss for the horn shaped self-complementary antenna (HSCA) and the planar inverted cone antenna (PICA) vs. distance measured around the human body [18]. The path loss model is obtained by a best-fit procedure.

The far field path loss is usually modeled with the empirical power decay law:


(5.5)

where n is the path loss exponent, d is the distance from the antenna and P0 is the path loss at the reference distance d0. The parameters of this path loss model extracted from the simulation and measurements are listed in Table 5.6.
The nonreflecting environment in the anechoic chamber leads to the high exponent of path losses; however, for PICA, good omnidirectional radiation across UWB range results in the lower loss exponent value due to diffraction around the human body. In addition to distance changes and different body positions contribution to channel path loss, another important factor is the orientation of the antennas. For example, an additional 20-dB loss was determined when two PICAs were orthogonally oriented on the body [7, 18].
Compared with free space (n = 2), the path loss exponent near the body in the GHz range is much higher. For transmission along the front of the body, the index n = 3.3. For NLOS transmission around the body, n is between 7.2-7.4, much higher than in typical wireless systems. These higher path loss exponents are expected because the propagation mechanism relies only on diffraction in the shadowed regions of the body. Furthermore, the path loss results for HSCA and PICA listed in Table 5.6 do not separate between LOS (along the body) and NLOS (around the body) scenarios so their estimated path loss exponent is significantly different.

Table 5.6 Path Loss Model Parameters Obtained from Simulations and Measurements
From: [7, 18, 46, 47].

The mean path loss value also depends on the separation distance between the antenna and the body due mainly to antenna mismatches, as described in Section 5.2. The reference path loss at 0.1m given in Table 5.6 is for a body separation distance of 5mm [46, 47]. For monopole antennas, this reference parameter was found to vary between +/−6 dB depending on the separation distance, generally increasing when the antenna is placed closer to the body.
To determine the signal amplitude distribution the large-scale path loss (the line from Figure 5.28) was removed. The lognormal and Suzuki models provided a reasonable fit, while other candidate distributions could be rejected based on visual inspection and goodness-of-fit tests. Therefore, we recommend using a lognormal distribution, as it is much easier to implement in practical channel simulators.
Empirical and theoretical lognormal fit distributions for consecutive time-delay bins are reproduced in Figure 5.30. Marginally higher variances were observed on the side of the body (~7 dB), compared with on the front of the body (~6 dB), and may be due to reflections off of the arms and shoulders. Smaller variances were also observed on the back of the body (~5 dB), possibly due to both the components diffracting around the torso.
The lognormal distributions describing the energy in each delay bin were found to be correlated. Log amplitude correlations in the range 0.5 to 0.9 were measured in the first three (up to 1.5 ns) time-delay bins regardless of the receiver position. The correlation coefficient decreases with increasing delay between bins. Physical phenomena that may contribute to correlated bins include the frequency dependency of human tissues and the antenna/body system. Furthermore, multipath components due to reflections off of the body and arms may be correlated due to short path lengths, a natural symmetry of the body, and overlapping path trajectories especially in the vicinity of the transmitter and receiver.
By comparing the results obtained in the simulations and measurements, we can conclude that FDTD simulations are useful for extracting average path loss and power delay profile trends, but that they may not be suited for estimating precise statistical information describing how these parameters vary without very sophisticated numerical techniques or body/antenna models.


Figure 5.30 Example of amplitude cumulative density functions for bins 1, 3, 5, and 7 measured along the side of the body (0.5-ns bins have been used).

Impulse Response and Average Power Delay Profile
Figure 5.31 presents impulse responses for two on-body scenarios in the anechoic chamber investigations with the HSCA and PICA [7, 18]. It can be seen that most energy is received via the direct path with some multipath reflections at the late time. The changes in channel characteristics due to different antenna radiation characteristics can be also found in these figures. The main dissimilarity between antennas is that more strong echoes and ringing effects appear in the PICA case. This can be explained by the fact that the PICA has a narrower bandwidth and more resonance frequencies within the measured band, which increases the signal spread.
Figure 5.32 only presents an example of measured APDP [3, 49]. Similar results are obtained using FDTD simulations [4]. The energy of subsequent timedelay bins can be well modeled with an exponential law as a function of excess delay. However, the FDTD simulations did not incorporate real antennas, and the observed longer impulse responses in the measurements can be explained with near field effects and/or the convolution of the antenna response with the propagation channel response.
In [7, 18], the RMS delay spread and mean excess delay parameters have been calculated for an impulse response length of 80 ns. RMS delay spread values between 1 to 7 ns were determined for various antenna types and positions around the body. However, the investigations with small, low-profile monopole antennas yielded RMS delay spread values in the range of only 0.1 to 0.8 ns for various onbody device positions, as reported in [42, 49, 55]. The approximately one order of magnitude difference is clearly due to different antenna radiation characteristics, underlying the importance of antenna design for specific BAN applications.
Figure 5.33 shows the RMS delay spread versus on-body distance for both measurement cases with HSCA and PICA antennas. This distance relationship is also consistent with the results reporting longer impulse response on the back and side of the body compared with the front of the body [49]. The cumulative distributions of the RMS delay spread and mean excess delay parameters, showed a good fit to normal distributions around the average RMS delay spread [7, 18].
As expected, the mean delay due to propagation link between the transmitter and the receiver is the highest where non-line-of-sight (NLOS) channel and propagation around human body on the surface (creeping waves) are the main propagation channels. For the cases where both antennas are placed on the same side of the human body but still in NLOS conditions, the mean RMS delay spread measured with the HSCA was smaller than RMS delay spread with PICA. This can be related to the placement of both antennas of which stronger surface waves are launched with the HSCA. For other links where line-of-sight (LOS) components (free-space waves) are the dominant, PICA produced lower delay spread.


Figure 5.31 Measured channel frequency responses ((a) and (c)) and impulse responses ((b) and (d)) with HSCA and PICA for two on-body scenarios [18]: (a) and (b) scenario with receiver on the right side of the head with body standing still, and (c) and (d) scenario with receiver on the left wrist with arm stretched aside.



Figure 5.32 Example of channel average power delay profile in a BAN scenario. Measured decrease in mean amplitude over successive 0.5-ns bins relative to the first bin.



Figure 5.33 Example of RMS delay spread variation as a function of distance for both HSCA and PICA in a BAN scenario [7, 18].

5.4.3.2 Influence of the Motion of the Arms
Channel measurements indicate that the position and/or movement of the arms can significantly change the mean signal path loss between the transmitter and receiver [3, 38, 42, 47, 55]. For example, when the transmitter is placed on the belt, and the receiver is placed near shoulder height, a drop of 5 to 20 dB in received power was recorded when the arms are folded across the chest between the two antennas. The investigations with transmit and receive antennas placed either on the torso or arms showed that wideband power fluctuations due to the arm positions are in the range of +/−15 dB from the median values.
Investigations also showed that arm motions can significantly influence the fluctuations of the received signal levels. Figure 5.34 shows an example of measured received energy fluctuation due to arm movements compared with the fluctuation determined with a still body [3, 47]. As expected, a walking motion of the arms produces measurable fluctuations if the receiver is placed on the side or back of the body. When both the transmitter and receiver are on the front of the body, the arms are too far away and do not significantly influence the received power level.
Analysis of the data indicates that the variation of the received energy around the mean path loss due to typical arm motions is better modeled by distributions such as the log-normal and Nakagami-m distributions, compared with a simple Rayleigh model [3, 47]. This is likely due to a combination of two effects. First, the arms do not produce enough random phase signal paths by themselves to justify the Rayleigh distribution. Second, the resolution of an UWB system is very high so that there are not many irresolvable multipath components. Based on these results, we can conclude that a UWB BAN system design needs to account for the possibility of deep fades due to arm/body movements, especially if the receiver is worn such that body motions can shadow the receiver from the transmitter.

Figure 5.34 Path loss versus time in measurements taken at several receiver positions (front, side, back) while the user is still (first 100 seconds) compared with when the user is walking in place (last 100 seconds).
5.4.3.3 The Influence of the Indoor Environment
The signal propagation around the human body (discussed previously in Sections 5.4.3.1 and 5.4.3.2) is only one component of the total BAN propagation channel. The multipath radio environment in the near range of the users has also a significant impact on the BAN propagation channel and needs to be included in the channel characterization and modeling [38, 42, 48, 49, 55].
In this section, the results from the static measurements (in frequency domain, see Section 5.3.2.1) are used to highlight the differences between the extracted channel parameters for different antenna position on the body [3, 47]. From the dynamic channel measurements (in time domain, see Section 5.3.2.2), the same channel parameters are averaged over similar antenna positions on the body and these average values are compared between different indoor environments [48].
These static and dynamic channel investigations have been performed completely independently, in buildings with different structures, with different antenna types and using different data processing procedures. Thus, the results presented in the following are a very good indication on the variability of the extracted channel parameters due to indoor radio propagation environments and on-body positions, as well as the experimental procedures used.
Large- and Small-Scale Fading
The variation of the total received signal energy depends on both the position of the antennas on the body and the location of the body in the room. This largescale fading is commonly modeled with a log-normal distribution. Table 5.7 shows large-scale wideband power distribution measured in the static and dynamic BAN channel investigations. Different relative positions on the body are considered in the two measurement sets respectively; due to the different location of the main unit: front of the torso for the static measurements and lower right side of the torso in the dynamic measurement, respectively.
In terms of wideband power levels, significant deviations can be observed between the results in the four considered environments. We concluded that these phenomena are due mainly to the directional antennas used in the body-worn devices in the case of the dynamic measurements [48]. The determined standard deviations of the large-scale lognormal fading agree well between the static and dynamic measurements, and in average, are below 2 dB.
No significant variation of the signal cluster fading factors in the dynamic measurements was determined between various body-worn device positions, thus in Table 5.7 only the average values are given for each radio environment. The average standard deviation of the log-normal cluster fading is slightly higher in the dynamic measurements compared to the static measurements. This result can also be explained with higher radio scattering environment influence due to the directional antennas used [48].
In addition, small-scale fading in each delay bin is observed due to small changes in the user position. A statistical analysis from [47, 49] indicates that a lognormal or Nakagami-m distribution provides a plausible model to describe this phenomenon and is consistent with other UWB indoor propagation studies [51, 56, 57].

Table 5.7 Large-Scale Distributions Measured in the Static and Dynamic BAN Channel Investigations*
Power Delay Profile
Figure 5.35 shows an example for the average power delay profile when the transmitter is located on the front of the body and the receiver is on the back of the body. This plot is generated by averaging the 49 power delay profiles obtained in the measurement grid used. Several main signal clusters can be identified. First, a cluster of MPCs is observed shortly after transmission. This component is due to diffraction around the body and was already analyzed in Section 5.4.3.2. Second, a complex group of overlapping MPC clusters is observed due to reflections off the ground, ceiling, and nearby objects in the room located in front of the body [3, 38, 47, 55].
A comparison of Figure 5.35 with Table 5.7 shows that if the antennas are placed on the same side of the body, the received energy due to MPCs reflecting off of nearby scatterers is significantly smaller than the energy received due to MPCs propagating near the body and can be ignored. However, if antennas are placed on different sides of the body, the total energy received from scattering in the indoor environment becomes very important, while the initial waves diffracted around the body are significantly attenuated.


Figure 5.35 Example of Average PDP for indoor environment measured when the transmit antenna was in front and the receiver antenna was placed on the back of the body [49].

Representative time-delay signal parameters in different user scenarios are listed in Table 5.8, and as a general conclusion, one can observe a similar range of values determined in the two independent measurement sets, thus confirming the validity of the results.
The signal clusters were analyzed in two time-delay regions as described in Section 5.4.1 where the excess delay threshold, Tenv in (5.4), was determined to be 40 and 25 ns in the static and dynamic channel investigations, respectively. A possible explanation for this dual slope time-delay power decay is given in Section 5.4.1. The noticeable differences in the excess delay threshold and log-normal cluster fading parameters between the static and dynamic measurements can be explained mainly with the different, and environment-dependent, distribution of the main signal clusters. However, the different procedures used to calculate the average PDP may have also an impact (see Section 5.3.2).

Table 5.8 Time-delay Channel Parameters Measured in the Static and Dynamic BAN Scenarios
The signal cluster arrival rate and average power decay within the signal clusters show good agreement in the two measurement setups. For simplicity, these parameters are not presented in detail for the dynamic measurements among the antenna positions due to their very similar range of values. Compared to the "freespace" channel model parameters proposed in IEEE 802.15.4a [57] the determined cluster arrival rates were in average higher in all BAN scenarios. Similar to the explanation for the PAN-MD scenarios described in Section 5.4.2, this is due to the presence of the human body in the (static/dynamic) scattering environment surrounding the antennas.
Figure 5.36 shows an example of measured distributions for the time-delay parameters along with the best fit normal distribution curves. It can be seen that significant deviations from the normal distribution are to be expected in typical moving user scenarios, and these deviations are generally difficult to reproduce in simulations unless very specific models are used for different on-body locations. The main reason for this result is believed to be the set of directional antennas used in combination with the movement of the user [48].


Figure 5.36 Example of measured distribution of the RMS delay spread and 90% energy delay window for all on-body positions with the user walking in the laboratory environment. The fitted normal distributions are given for comparison [48].

5.4.3.4 Channel Modeling
This section summarizes the main radio channel model for the BAN scenarios as proposed in [46, 49, 57] extended with the large-scale time/space domain decorrelation properties proposed in [48].
The first cluster of components due to diffraction of the pulse around the body can be modeled, as described in Section 5.4.3.1. Subsequent multipath components can be modeled in the same manner as other indoor wireless channels, as described in Section 5.4.3.2. A very common approach that has been adopted by the IEEE UWB standardization committees is the modified Saleh-Valenzuela model [56, 57]. This model uses a double Poisson process to describe the arrival times of multipath components and assumes that the energy of clusters and rays decay exponentially. The amplitude of each multipath component in the impulse response is generated according to empirically derived correlated lognormal variables.
The proposal for the indoor UWB BAN propagation channel consists of the following features:


A signal cluster of components diffracting around the body;


Deterministic clusters of components due to the geometry of the room;


Random clusters of components due to reflections off of nearby scatterers in the room;


Large-scale fading of the received energy depending on the position and movement of the body in the room;


Small-scale fading due to small changes in the position of the body.


Based on the results presented in Section 5.4.3, we built the propagation channel model using a high path loss exponent to describe distance dependent on-body attenuation, and a discrete time-delay impulse response to describe the scattering phenomena. Similar to the PAN mobile-to-mobile channel results presented in Section 5.4.2, in all dynamic BAN investigations with walking users a large-scale decorrelation time/distance of approximately 0.5s/0.25m was determined. Therefore, a correlated time/space domain channel realization modeling is proposed in order to reflect more realistically the behavior of the BAN channel over larger time scales in terms of wide band power and average signal clustering [48].
In a given radio environment (room), there can be important signal clusters that always arrive at the same time and have larger magnitudes than expected compared to the usual exponential decay trends. A more accurate model of the APDP can be obtained if, in addition to the more random clusters, we add a few deterministic components to account for the geometry of the particular room, and the orientation of the on-body devices [49]. This quasi-deterministic method was used in the channel model derived from the static experiments described in Section 5.3.2.1. However, the model proposal derived from the dynamic investigations described in Section 5.3.2.2 simplifies this modeling by assuming purely random cluster arrival time and a dual exponential decay trend as in the modified SV models.
For testing purposes, 10,000 channel realizations have been randomly generated and compared with the measured channel impulse responses in terms of the following important communication channel metrics: RMS signal delay spread τRMS), 90% energy delay window length (W90) and/or number of significant MPCs (Np). The RMS delay spread is a good measure of multipath spread over excess delay. The 90% energy delay window parameter can be used to optimize the simple energy detector like receivers. The number of significant MPCs gives an indication of the number of RAKE fingers required to extract most of the channel energy and significantly influences the performance of many UWB receivers.
Table 5.9 compares the time-delay parameter statistics from both the measurements and the channel model for the propagation channel around the body without the effects of the environment. The average (<>) and standard deviation (STD) values are listed. Good agreement has been found. As expected, the mean RMS delay spread is shorter on the front of the body (0.3 ns) compared with on the back of the body (0.5 ns). Similarly, the average number of significant multipath components ranges between 1.8 and 3.0.

Table 5.9 Comparison of Channel Parameters Extracted from Measurements and Simulations for the Propagation Channel Around the Body without the Effects of the Environment
Figure 5.37 and Figure 5.38 compare the cumulative density functions of the τrms and Np parameters for both the measurements and the channel model, for the complete propagation on-body channel with the effects of the environment included using the semi-deterministic modeling approach.
Table 5.10 shows a comparison between the statistics of the time-delay parameter statistics obtained from the BAN measurements, and simulations for the propagation channel around the body including the effects of the environment. The simulations for the channel model extracted from the dynamic measurements were performed without considering different positions on the body. The average (<>) and standard deviation (STD) values are listed, although a simple normal distribution was generally not the best fit, as exemplified in Figure 5.37.
Based on these results, we can conclude that the presented BAN models are able to capture up to a certain degree the different propagation effects caused by the onbody positions and the interaction with the static/dynamic radio environment.


Figure 5.37 Distribution of the RMS delay spread comparing the results from the measurements (black) and from the model (gray), for different receiver positions on the body. The signal paths reflecting off the surrounding environment are considered using the semideterministic modeling approach.



Figure 5.38 Distribution of the number of significant MPCs comparing the results from measurements (black) and from the model (gray), for different receiver positions on the body. The signal paths reflecting off the surrounding environment are considered using the semi-deterministic modeling approach.

5.4.4 UWB Multiband-OFDM Based System Modeling and Performance Evaluation for Body-Centric Wireless Communications
Two kinds of UWB radio system are mentioned in the literature; one is impulse radio (UWB-IR) and the other is multicarrier UWB (MC-UWB) system [66]. Although the UWB-IR provides simple design, the main problem is that it does not allow much flexibility in spectrum management and selection of appropriate number of rake fingers for capturing sufficient multipath energy,which is a challenging task. To overcome the problem of spectrum flexibility and complexity, the multiband OFDM approach (taken from the proposal submitted to IEEE 802.15.3a standard group [67]) is used, where the whole band is divided into subbands (14 bands each with 528-MHz bandwidth), thereby reducing design complexity as well as increasing spectral efficiency and compliance with regulations. In UWB-OFDM, all multipath components are captured by single RF chain as compared to UWB-IR, where we need an infinite number of rake fingers to capture all multipath components [66-69].

Table 5.10 Comparison of Channel Parameters Extracted from Measurements and Simulations for the Propagation Channel Around the Body, Including the Effects of the Environment
5.4.4.1 System-Level Model for Multiband UWB OFDM
A radio system based on IEEE 802.15.3a multiband-OFDM (MB-OFDM) UWB transmission model [70-72] is used to investigate the system performance by incorporating the measured channel data. The system architecture is modeled and analyzed using Simulink MATLAB™. Figure 5.39 shows a block diagram of the radio system modeled on the basis of IEEE 802.15.3a MB-OFDM UWB transmission model to investigate the system performance from the measurement data for both static and dynamic scenarios of subject.


Figure 5.39 Simplified block diagram illustrating the various stages of the multiband OFDM UWB radio transceiver applied in the system-level modeling for body-centric wireless networks [71].

Channel impulse response (CIR) for each Rx location is calculated by taking the discrete inverse fast Fourier transform (IFFT) of channel frequency responses captured from the real time measurements. The time step of CIR is also fixed according to the sampling frequency in measurement. In order to obtain the same sampling rate as the MB-OFDM system model, the time domain transfer function of UWB body-centric channel is interpolated to conform to the sampling time of the simulator. The baseband signal has been further normalized to suit the system model. Finally, these CIRs are inputted into the MB-OFDM UWB body-centric system model into the channel block (Figure 5.39). Table 5.11 shows the specifications of MB-OFDM UWB body-centric system for calculation of BER and system outage.
The data rate of the system is fixed to 200 Mbps and QPSK modulation is used (to achieve such a higher data rate). An OFDM modulator is implemented using a 128 point IFFT in 528 MHz frequency band, with 122 active su-carriers, out of which 100 are data carriers (each carries 2 bits information using QPSK), 12 are pilots, and 10 are guard subcarriers. The five high-frequency taps and the DC tap are set to zero creating a time domain sequence of 242.42 ns. After the IFFT, a 32 length zero-padded prefix (60.61 ns in time) is added to the beginning, and a 5 length zero-padded guard suffix (equating to 9.47 ns) is added to the end of the IFFT output, creating a 165 sample time domain sequence of 312.5 ns [73].

Table 5.11 Specifications for MB-OFDM UWB Body-Centric System for Bit Error Rate Calculation
5.4.4.2 UWB Body-Centric System Performance Evaluation
Before commencing with UWB system evaluation applying measured and modeled radio channels, a system evaluation of the blocks in Figure 5.39 has to be conducted. First, the system is simulated in Matlab without any channel model or direct connection to the receiver. A random train of input bit is fed into system and similar output is obtained. BER is zero, which confirms that all bits are received correctly. These preparations ensure that the system will work properly. To further check system validity it is simulated using the AWGN channel. Good agreement between theoretical and simulated results further validate the system model used [71].
On-Body System-Level Modeling
Similar measurement setting, as explained in Section 5.3, for frequency domain UWB channel characterization is applied in order to analyze the system performance with a larger number of on-body locations to provide a more comprehensive picture of the system around the body [71, 72]. Initially only on-body, LOS measurements were performed for 34 different static Rx locations on the front side of body when Tx was at the waist, as shown in Figure 5.40. Later on, higher resolution was considered by taking more than 100 Rx locations for static on/off-body, covering both LOS and NLOS scenarios.


Figure 5.40 On-body locations used in the measurement campaign for UWB on-body radio channel characterization when the subject is stationary [71].

For a stationary subject, 14 different Rx locations are selected that are most feasible for putting receivers on the body (considering both LOS and NLOS scenarios) and bit error rate (BER) is calculated against Eb/No. For Eb/No from 1-14 dB with step of 1 dB, it was observed that for most of the locations BER remains below 1.0 × 10-3 (a threshold that is often chosen as a suitable value for audio and other wireless applications like Bluetooth [1] at Eb/No = 4 dB). This value of Eb/No NN4 dB is used for finding BER for 109 locations of receivers on the body for both on-body and off-body communication scenarios [71].
Figure 5.41 shows the BER performance of 34 different on-body links shown in Figure 5.40 at Eb/No of 4 dB for static radio channel scenarios in an indoor environment. The results demonstrated that for 75% and 78% (for chamber and indoor scenarios, respectively), the quality of the radio link is excellent and the BER is below the set threshold of 1.0 × 10-3. The system outage percentage (bad radio links) is higher in the chamber, as compared to an indoor environment, because the reflections from surrounding scatterers in an indoor environment lead to a higher received power. Therefore, this leads to a decrease in system outage.


Figure 5.41 BER variations for different locations (Figure 5.40) on the body for Eb/No = 4 dB in indoor environment [70, 71].

On the basis of the maximum acceptable BER threshold, Table 5.12 demonstrates the percentage of on-body locations where the radio link is defined as good (BER is less than 0.01%), acceptable (BER is between 0.1 and 0.01%), and bad links with BER higher than 1.0 × 10-3. The body is divided into four main sectors: the torso (which includes the back), the legs, the arms, and the head [71].
Figure 5.42 shows the BER performance when Tx is on the waist and Rx is at different locations on the body. Results show that upper part of trunk is more stable (BER is below 1.0 × 10−3 for most of the Rx locations) as compared to the lower part of the trunk. This is because there is more stability in receivers in upper part of the trunk; in the lower part of the trunk, breathing affects the stability of link and results in a higher BER. Figure 5.42 also shows that upper part of arms is more stable than the lower part because for there is a natural gap between body and lower part of the arms when person is normally standing. This results in more losses and reflections due to the creation of internal reflections, such as air surrounded by high density area, and hence BER performance degrades. System performance for the receivers on the head (as shown in Figure 5.42) shows that optimum performance is achieved for the receiver location (when the receiver is placed on different locations at head) placed at the middle of the head.

Table 5.12 Classification of the On-Body Radio Link Quality for Various Sectors of the Human Body*
*Consisting of the upper body, which includes the back; the lower body (legs); and arms for BER less than 1.0×10−4 for good links, and between 1.0×10−4 and 1.0×10−4 for acceptable links and bad links where BER is greater than 1.0×10−4 at Eb/No = 4 dB. From: [71].



Figure 5.42 Illustration of the on-body radio link classification for different propagation channels based on system performance analysis. Good link: BER less than 1.0 × 10−4; acceptable link: BER between 1.0 × 10−4 and 1.0 × 10−3; bad link: BER greater than 1.0 × 10−3 at Eb/No=4 dB [71].

Table 5.13 shows the system outage percentage for different parts of body at the threshold of 1.0 × 10−3 for transmitter on the waist and receivers on the body. From the table, it is evident that highest system outage percentage (38.77%) is obtained for the trunk case, making it an unfavorable location for body-worn sensors when compared to other body parts. The lowest value of system outage (3.57%) is obtained for leg case. The optimum location is the lower part of legs, where outage is 0%. This makes the lower leg the most favorable location for putting sensors on the body due to the fact that strong reflections from the ground enhances the link and hence overall system performance is improved. The most common application for sensor on legs is for an athlete's performance monitoring. The nominal value of system outage for the head case, as compared to other body parts, make it second optimum location after legs for putting sensors on the body for on-body communications.
Off-Body System-Level Modeling
Figure 5.43 shows the off-body (when Tx is on the wall at a waist height and at a distance of 100 cm from the human body) BER performance for the upper and lower part of trunk. It is demonstrated that the lower part of the trunk is more stable, which means BER is less than 1.0×10−3 for most of Rx locations as compared to the upper part of the trunk. This is contrary to the on-body communications as discussed above due to the fact that the lower part of the trunk is at exactly the same level of transmitter on the wall, thus making direct LOS and hence improves the overall system performance by improving BER behavior.


Figure 5.43 Illustration of the off-body radio link classification for different propagation channels based on system performance analysis. Good link: BER less than 1.0 × 10−4, acceptable link: BER between 1.0 × 10−4 and 1.0 × 10−3, and bad link: BER greater than 1.0 × 10−3 at Eb/No=4 dB [71].

Table 5.13 shows the system outage percentage for different human body parts at the threshold of 1.0 × 10−3 for Tx on the wall at waist height with distance of 100 cm from the on-body receivers. The lowest system outage percentage of 16.32% for the trunk case shows that trunk is the most favorable part of body for putting sensors on the body for off-body communications (optimum locations are the lower part of trunk and the upper part of legs due to strong direct LOS communications). A second favorable location for off-body communication is the head, as it is for on-body communications as well.
Figure 5.44 shows the comparison of BER performance for Tx on the waist and Tx on the wall, whereas receivers are on front side of body for both cases. System outage for off-body communicatiold (32.72%) is greater than for on-body communication (23.63%) in the LOS scenario, which shows that for LOS scenarios on-body communication outperforms the off-body communication. Figure 5.45 shows the comparison of BER performance for Tx on the waist and Tx on the wall, whereas receivers are on the back side of body in both cases. Figure 5.45 shows the comparison of BER performance for Tx on the waist and Tx on the wall, whereas receivers are on backside of body in both cases. System outage for on-body communication (20%) is greater than off-body communication (9.09%) for NLOS scenario; this shows that for NLOS scenarios off-body communications outperforms the on-body communications, and it is due to strong multipath diversity for off-body communications. Also, for all receivers on the front side of the body for 61.82% of the receiver locations, on-body communications perform better in terms of BER. For the backside of body, off-body communication overcomes BER performance of on-body communications for 58.18% receiver locations.

Table 5.13 System Outage Percentage at the Threshold of 1.0 × 10−3 for Different Parts of theBody for On-Body and Off-Body Cases () at Eb/No = 4 dB


Figure 5.44 Comparison of BER for on-body and off-body receivers for front side of the body at Eb/No = 4 dB [71].



Figure 5.45 Comparison of BER for on-body and off-body receivers for back side of the body at Eb/No = 4 dB [71].

5.5 Concluding Remarks
Based on the extensive PAN and BAN radio channel investigation results presented in Section 5.3, channel characterization and modeling for two typical indoor UWB scenarios have been described in this section.
The first model is suited for PAN mobile-to-mobile (body-to-body) scenarios, with handheld devices, and represents an enhancement of the existing UWB PAN channel models proposed in the literature. It includes the effects of antenna/device handing, user-proximity and user movement in a given radio environment.
The second model presented is for BAN scenarios with on-body devices. This semideterministic model can be used for the simulation of a body-induced only propagation channel, as well as for the simulation of the total propagation channel (i.e., including the radio environment of the user). Several modeling extensions are proposed in order to account for the user dynamics in terms arm movements and/or movement through the environment (room).
The proposed models have been tested based on the statistics of three timedelay parameters: RMS delay spread, 90% energy delay window, and/or number of significant multi path components within -10 dB of the largest component in each channel profile. Generally good agreement has been found with the measurement results. Additionally, the comparison between two independent sets of channel investigations showed agreement for most of the parameters analyzed but significant difference have also been found. These differences highlight the variability of the extracted channel parameters due to indoor radio propagation environments, onbody positions, and the experimental procedures used.
UWB body-centric system modeling has been presented based on measured data. System-level modeling is analytically and numerically performed on the basis of a multiband OFDM system for both on/off body communications. System performance is evaluated for the different sectors of the body based on real-time measurements using BER and system outage rate calculation. Results and analyses, based on SNR and BER, demonstrated that BER is less than or equal to 0.1%, for 96.43% of lower body locations (for on-body communications) and 83.68% of the human trunk ones (for off-body communications) respectively, with low power requirements. System performance is also evaluated when the subject was in pseudo-dynamic motion.
References
[1] Opperman, I., M. Hamalainen, and J. Iinatti, UWB Theory and Applications, John Wiley and Sons, 2004.
[2] Porcino, D., and W. Hirt, "Ultra-wideband Radio Technology: Potential and Challenges Ahead," IEEE Communications Magazine, Vol. 41, Issue 7, July 2003, pp. 66-74.
[3] Gerrits, J., I. Z. Kovács, Q. Xu, A. Hutter, J. Ayadi, and P. C. F. Eggers, "Design and Performance Analysis of UWB Communication System for Low Data Rate WPAN Applications," Power Aware Communications for Wireless OptiMised personal Area Network (PACWOMAN), IST-2001-34157, Deliverable D 4.1.1, October 2003.
[4] Fort, A., C. Desset, P. De Doncker, P. Wambacq, and L. Van Bisen, "An Ultra Wideband Body Area Propagation Channel Model: From Statistics to Implementation," Transaction on Microwave Theory and Techniques, Vol. 54, No. 4, April 2006.
[5] Schantz, H. G., and L. Fullerton, "The Diamond Dipole: a Gaussian Impulse Antenna," IEEE Antennas and Propagation Society Symposium, July 2001.
[6] Wu, X. H., and Z. N. Chen, "Comparison of Planar Dipoles in UWB Applications," IEEE Trans. on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 53, No. 6, June 2005.
[7] Alomainy, A., Y. Hao, C. G. Parini, and P. S. Hall, "Comparison Between Two Different Antennas for UWB On-Body Propagation Measurements," IEEE Antennas and Wireless Propagation Letters, Vol. 4, 2005.
[8] Paulsen, L., J. B. West, W. F. Perger, and J. Kraus, "Recent Investigations on the Volcano Smoke Antenna," Antennas and Propagation Society International Symposium, IEEE Vol. 3, June 2003, pp. 845-848.
[9] Powell, J., and A. P. Chandrakasan, "Differential and Single Ended Elliptical Antennas for 3.1-10.6 GHz Ultra Wideband Communication," IEEE Antennas and Propagation Society International Symposium, June 2004.
[10] Yazdandoost, K. Y., and R. Kohno, "Design and Analysis of an Antenna for Ultra-Wideband System," 14th IST Mobile and Wireless Communications Summit, Dresden, Germany, June 2005.
[11] Behdad, N., and K. Sarabandi, "A Compact Antenna for Ultrawide-Band Applications," IEEE Trans. on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 53, No. 7, July 2005.
[12] Klemm, M., and G. Troester, "Textile UWB antennas for Wireless Body Area Networks," IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 54, No. 11, November 2006.
[13] Lamensdorf, D., and L. Susman, "Baseband-Pulse-Antenna Techniques," IEEE Antennas and Propagation Magazine, Vol. 36, No. 1, February 1994.
[14] McLean, J. S., H. Foltz, and R. Sutton, "Pattern Descriptors for UWB Antennas," IEEE Trans. on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 53, No. 1, January 2005.
[15] Klemm, M., and G. Tröster, "Characterisation of an Aperture-Stacked Patch Antenna for Ultra-Wideband Wearable Radio Systems," 15th International Conference on Microwaves and Wireless Communications, Warsaw, Poland, May 2004.
[16] Klemm, M., and G. Tröster, "Small Patch Antennas for Ultra-Wideband Wireless Body Area Networks," Euro Electromagnetics (EUROEM 2004) Conference, Magdeburg, Germany, July 2004, pp. 12-16. .
[17] Cai, A., T. S. P. See, and Z. N. Chen, "Study of Human Head Effects on UWB Antenna," IEEE International Workshop on Antenna Technology: Small Antennas and Novel Metamaterials, March 2005, pp. 310-313.
[18] Alomainy, A., Y. Hao, X. Hu, C. G. Parini, and P. S. Hall, "UWB On-Body Radio Propagation and System Modelling for Wireless Body-Centric Networks," IEE Proc. Communications, Special Issue on UWB Theory, Technology and Applications, Vol. 153, No. 1, February 2006.
[19] Klemm, M., I. Z. Kovács, G. F. Pedersen, and G. Tröster, "Novel Small-Size Directional Antenna for UWB WBAN/WPAN Applications," IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 53, No. 12, December 2005, pp.3884-3896.
[20] Saitou, A., T. Iwaki, K. Honjo, K. Sato, T. Koyama, and K. Watanabe, "Practical Realization of Self Complementary Broadband Antenna on Low-Loss Resin Substrate for UWB applications," 2004 IEEE MTT-S International Microwave Symposium, Fort Worth, TX, June 2004.
[21] Suh, S-Y., W. L. Stutzman, and W. A. Davis, "A New Ultrawideband Printed Monopole Antenna: The Planar Inverted Cone Antenna (PICA)," IEEE Transaction on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 52, No. 5, May 2004.
[22] Abbasi, Q. H., A. Alomainy, and Y. Hao, "Recent Development of Ultra Wideband Bodycentric Wireless Communications," IEEE International Conference on Ultra Wideband Technology (ICUWB), Nanjing, China, September 20-23, 2010.
[23] Shih, T-Y., C-L. Li, and C-S. Lai, "Design of an UWB fully planar quasi-elliptic monopole antenna," 2004 International Conference on Electromagnetic Applications and Compatibility (ICEMAC 2004), Taipei, Taiwan, October 14-16, 2004.
[24] Targonski, S. D., R. B. Waterhouse, and D. M. Pozar, "Design of Wide-Band Aperture- Stacked Patch Microstrip Antennas," IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 46, No. 9, September 1998.
[25] Qing, X., M. Y. W. Chia, and X. Wu, "Wide-slot Antenna for UWB Applications," IEEE Antennas and Propagation Society International Symposium, Vol. 1, June 22-27, 2003, pp. 834-837.
[26] Toftgard, J., S. N. Hornsleth, and J. B. Andersen, "Effects on Portable Antennas of the Presence of a Person," IEEE Trans. On Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 41, No. 6, June 1993, pp. 739-746
[27] Jensen, M. A., and Y. Rahmat-Samii, "EM interaction of handset antennas and a human in personal communications," Proceedings of the IEEE, Vol. 83, No.1, January 1995, pp. 7-17
[28] M. Okoniewski, M., and M. A. Stuchly, "A Study of the Handset Antenna and Human Body Interaction," IEEE Transactions on Microwave Theory and Techniques, Vol. 44, No. 10, October 1996, pp. 1855-1864.
[29] Pedersen, G. F., K. Olesen, and S. L. Larsen, "Body Loss for Handheld Phones," 49th IEEE Vehicular Technology Conference, Vol. 2, May 1999, pp. 1580-1584.
[30] Hirata, A., T. Fujino, and T. Shiozawa, "SAR and Temperature Increase Induced in the Human Body due to Body-mounted Antennas," IEEE Antennas and Propagation Society Symposium, Vol. 2, June 2004, pp. 1851-1854.
[30] Christ, A., A. Klingenboeck, and N. Kuster, "Energy Absorption in Layered Biological Tissue and Its Consequences on the Compliance Testing of Body-Mounted Wireless Devices," Progress in Electromagnetics Research Symposium, Hangzhou, China, August 13-26, 2005.
[31] Balanis, C. A., Antenna Theory: Analysis and Design, 3rd Edition, Wiley-Interscience, 2005.
[32] Nielsen, J. Ø., and G. F. Pedersen, "Mobile Handset Performance Evaluation Using Spherical Measurements," Proceedings of the IEEE 56th Vehicular Technology Conference, Vol. 1, September 24-28, 2002, pp. 289-293.
[33] Laitinen, T. A., J. Toivanen, C. Icheln, and P. Vainikainen, "Spherical Measurement System for Determination of Complex Radiation Patterns of Mobile Terminals," Electronics Letters, Vol. 40, No. 22, October 2004, pp. 1392-1394.
[34] Soergel, W., F. Pivit, and W. Wiesbeck, "Comparison of Frequency Domain and Time Domain Measurement Procedures for Ultra-wideband Antennas," Proceedings of the 25th Annual Meeting and Symposium of the Antenna and Measurement Techniques Association (AMTA '03), Irvine, CA, October 2003, pp. 72-76.
[35] Kotterman,W. A., G. F. Pedersen, K. Olesen, and P. Eggers, "Cable-less Measurement Setup for Wireless Handheld Terminals," Proceedings of the Symposium on Personal, Indoor and Mobile Radio Communications (PIMRC), Vol. 1, October 2001, pp. 112-116.
[36] Hertel, T. W., "Cable-Current Effects of Miniature UWB Antennas," 2005 IEEE Antennas and Propagation Symposium, Washington, DC, July 8, 2005.
[37] Kovács, I. Z., P. C, F. Eggers, and G. F. Pedersen, "Body-Area Networks," in UWB Communication Systems—A Comprehensive Overview, A. Molisch, I. Oppermann, M. G. Benedetto, D. Porcino, C. Politano, T. Kaiser (eds), Hindawi Publishing, 2005.
[38] Icheln, C., Ollikainen, J., and Vainikainen, P., "Reducing the Influence of Feed Cables on Small Antenna Measurements," Electronics Letters, Vol. 35, No. 15, July 1999, pp. 1212-1214.
[39] Icheln, C., J. Krogerus, and P. Vainikainen, "Use of Balun Chokes in Small-antenna Radiation Measurements," IEEE Transactions on Instrumentation and Measurement, Vol. 53, Issue 2, April 2004, pp. 498-506
[40] Manteghi, M., and Y. Rahmat-Samii, "A Novel UWB Feeding Mechanism for the TEM Horn Antenna, Reflector IRA, and the Vivaldi Antenna," IEEE Antennas and Propagation Magazine, Vol. 46, No. 5, October 2004, pp. 81-87.
[41] Kovács, I. Z., P. C, F. Eggers, and K. Olesen, "UWB Radio Propagation Investigations in Body Area Network Scenarios," IEEE Proceedings of the 8th International Symposium on Spread Spectrum Techniques and Applications (ISSSTA), Sydney, Australia, September 2004.
[42] Klemm, M., and G. Troster, "Integration of Electrically Small UWB Antennas for Bodyworn Sensor Applications," IEE Wideband and Multi-band Antennas and Arrays, September 2005, pp. 141-146.
[43] D. Manteuffel, "FDTD Characterization of UWB Antennas for Home-entertainment Equipment with Special Emphasis on the Specific Integration Scenario," IEEE International Workshop on Antenna Technology: Small Antennas and Novel Metamaterials, March 7-9, 2005, pp. 351-354.
[44] United States National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health, Health and Human Services, "The Visible Human Project," www.nlm.nih.gov/research/visible/visible_human.html, July 2005.
[45] Fort, A., C. Desset, J. Ryckaert, P. De Doncker, L. Van Biesen, and S. Donnay, "Ultra Wideband Body Area Channel Model," International Conference on Communication (ICC), May 2005.
[46] Fort, A., C. Desset, J. Ryckaert, P. De Doncker, L. Van Biesen, and P. Wambacq, "Characterization of the Ultra Wideband Body Area Propagation Channel," International Conference on Ultra Wideband (ICU), September 2005.
[47] European IST MAGNET, "PAN Channel Characterisation (Part I & II)," IST-507102, My personal Adaptive Global Net, Deliverable D.3.1.2a, October 2004 and June 2005.
[48] Fort, A., J. Ryckaert, C. Desset, P. De Doncker, and L. Van Biesen, "Ultra Wideband Channel Model for Communication around the Human Body," Journal on Selected Areas in Communications (JSAC), Vol. 24, No. 4, April 2006.
[49] Kovács, I. Z., Y. Wang, P. C. F. Eggers, and K. Olesen, "UWB Radio Channel Model for Short-Range Mobile-to-Mobile Communication Scenarios," Wireless Personal Multimedia Communication Conference, September 2005.
[50] Cassioli, D., M. Z. Win, and A. F. Molisch, "The Ultra-wide Bandwidth Indoor Channel: From Statistical Model to Simulations," IEEE Journal on Selected Areas of Communications, Vol. 20, No. 6, 2002.
[51] Zetik, R., R. Thomä, and J. Sachs, "Ultra-wideband Real-time Channel Sounder Design and Application," URSI International Symposium on Electromagnetic Theory, Pisa, Italy, May 2004.
[52] Kovács, I. Z., H. T. Nguyen, P. C. F. Eggers, and K. Olesen, "Enhanced UWB Radio Channel Model for Short-Range Communication Scenarios Including User Dynamics," 14th IST Mobile and Wireless Communication Summit, June 2005.
[53] Ciccognami, W., A. Durantini, and D. Cassioli, "Time Domain Propagation Measurements of the UWB Indoor Channel Using PN-Sequence in the FCC-Compliant Band 3.6- 6GHz," IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 53, No. 4, April 2005, pp. 1542-1549.
[54] Kovács, I. Z., and P. C. F. Eggers, "UWB Radio Channel Characterisation for Portable User Terminal Scenarios," Future Adaptive Communication Environment (FACE) research project, Deliverable D4.2, Center For PersonKommunikation Center for TeleInFrastruktur, Aalborg University, Denmark, March 2004, http://www.cpk.auc.dk/FACE.
[55] Foerster, J., (ed.), "IEEE 802.15.3a Channel modelling sub-committee—Report Final," IEEE P802.15 Working Group for WPAN, November 2002.
[56] Molisch, A. F., (ed.), "IEEE 802.15.4a Channel model subgroup final report," IEEE P802.15 Study Group for WPAN, September 2004.
[57] Molisch, A., I. Oppermann, M. G. Benedetto, D. Porcino, C. Politano, and T. Kaiser (eds), UWB Communication Systems—A Comprehensive Overview, Hindawi Publishing, 2005.
[58] Zasowski, T., F. Althaus, M. Stager, A. Wittneben, and G. Troster, "UWB for Noninvasive Wireless Body Area Networks: Channel Measurements and Results," Proceedings of the 2003 IEEE Conference on Ultra Wideband Systems and Technologies (UWBST), October 2003, pp. 285-289
[59] Saleh, A., and R. A. Valenzuela, "A Statistical Model for Indoor Multipath Propagation," IEEE Journal on Selected Areas of Communications, Vol. 5, February 1987, pp. 128-137.
[60] Fort, A., C. Desset, P. De Doncker, P. Wambacq, and L. Van Bisen, "Body Area UWB RAKE Receiver Communication," International Conference on Communication (ICC), June 2006.
[61] Hashemi, H., "The Indoor Radio Propagation Channel," Proceedings of the IEEE, Vol. 81, No. 7, 1993, pp. 943-968.
[62] Álvarez, Á., G. Valera, M. Lobeira, R. Torres, and J. L. García, "New Channel Impulse Response Model for UWB Indoor System Simulations," IEEE Vehicular Technology Conference, 2003.
[63] Alomainy, A., A. Sani, A. Rahman, J. Santas, and Y. Hao, "Transient Characteristics of Wearable Antennas and Radio Propagation Channels for Ultra Wideband Body-Centric Wireless Communications," IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation: Special Issue on Body-Centric Wireless Networks, Vol. 57, No. 4, Part 1, April 2009, pp. 875-884.
[64] Abbasi, Q. H., A. Sani , A. Alomainy, and Y. Hao, "Experimental Characterisation and Statistical Analysis of the Pseudo-Dynamic UltraWideband On-Body Radio Channel," IEEE Antenna and Wireless Propagation Letter, Vol. 10, 2011.
[65] Reed, J. H., An Introduction to Ultra Wideband Communication Systems, Prentice Hall, 2005.
[66] Wylie-Green, M., A. R. Pekka, and J. Salokannel, "Multi-band OFDM UWB Solution for IEEE 802.15.3a WPANs," IEEE/Sarnoff Symposium on Advances in Wired and Wireless Communication, April 2005, pp. 102-105.
[67] Alomainy, A., Y. Hao, X. Hu, C. G. Parini, and P. S. Hall, "UWB On-body Radio Propagation and System Modelling for Wireless Body-centric Networks," IEE Proceedings Communications- Special Issue on Ultra Wideband Systems, Technologies and Applications, Vol. 153, No. 1, February 2006, pp. 107-114.
[68] Zhang, Y., and Q. Li, "Performance of UWB Impulse Radio with Planar Monopoles Over on Human Body Propagation Channel for Wireless Body Area Networks," IEEE Transaction on Antenna and Propagation, Vol. 55, No. 10, October 2007, pp. 2907-2914.
[69] Batra, A., "Multi-band OFDM Physical Layer Proposal for IEEE 802.15 Task Group 3a," Texas Instruments, Tech. Rep., November 2003
[70] Abbasi, Q. H., A. Sani, A. Alomainy, and Y. Hao, "On-Body Radio Channel Characterisation and System-Level Modelling for Multiband OFDM Ultra Wideband Body-Centric Wireless Network," IEEE Transactions on Microwave Theory and Techniques, Vol. 58, No. 12, December 2010, pp. 3485-3492.
[71] Alomainy, A., Q. H. Abbasi, A. Sani, and Y. Hao, "System-level Modelling of Optimal Ultra Wideband Body-centric Wireless Network," Asia Pacific Microwave Conference (APMC), Singapore, December 2009.
[72] Siriwongpairat, W. P., and K. J. Ray Liu, Ultra-Wideband Communications Systems: Multiband OFDM Approach, John Wiley and Sons, Ltd., 2007.


1. The documents are public, technical deliverables from the European IST-507102, "My Personal Adaptive Global NET (MAGNET)" research project and can be downloaded from the official website of the project, www.ist-magnet.org.
2. The logarithm of the normalized signal power has been used in order to render the combination of the small-scale and large-scale signal variations an additive process.









CHAPTER 6
Wearable Antennas: Advances in the Design, Characterization, and Application

Pekka Salonen, Yahya Rahmat-Samii, Kamilia Kamardin, and Peter S. Hall
6.1 Introduction
The evolution of antenna technology for the man-machine interface has taken quantum leaps in utilizing textile materials as antenna substrates. In the future, this will allow complete freedom to design body-worn antenna systems embedded in so-called "smart clothes." Within the foreseeable future, such clothes may find their place in our everyday life; they will emerge in various sports strips, emergency workers' clothing, military, medical, and space applications, and so forth. The ability to establish wireless communication is a mandatory requirement for smart clothes. In addition, wireless data communication via smart clothes offers a host of entertainment possibilities [1]. A decade ago, smart clothes were introduced for the arctic environment [2-4]. Modern smart clothes resemble garments or equipment worn in our everyday life, such as outdoor jackets equipped with GPS receivers and Iridium satellite phone systems or even in extreme survival suits and lifejackets utilizing COSPAS-SARSAT search and rescue transmitters, as shown in Figure 6.1 (a) and (b), respectively [5, 6].


Figure 6.1 (a) An outdoor jacket integrated GPS receiver and Iridium phone, and (b) a lifejacket equipped with COSPAS-SARSAT transmitter and integrated body-worn antennas (Photo by Peter de Maagt).

In this chapter, after reviewing the literature of wearable antennas, attention is focused on miniaturized wearable antennas made from various textile materials. Critical design parameters of wearable antennas for various applications are discussed. Examples for mobile phone, GPS, and WLAN applications are presented. This chapter also addresses new methods for improving wearable antenna performance, such as dual-band and EBG antennas. In addition, the effect of the vicinity of human body on wearable textile antenna performance is discussed in detail. In this chapter, the terms "textile" and "fabric antenna" are used interchangeably. However, in most cases, "textile antenna" refers to an antenna type, whereas the term "fabric" relates the antenna material to a particular textile material, such as fleece fabric for substrates.
However, the following definitions are given in [147]. Body-worn antennas can be defined into three classes: wearable antennas, textile antennas, and SoftWear antennas. The detailed definitions for them are:

A wearable antenna is an antenna that is designed to be part of clothing. It is optimized to perform in close proximity to the human body and can be rigid or flexible.
A textile antenna is an antenna that is composed of conventional or industrial fabrics. Typically, conductive antenna parts are made out of modern conductive fibers; however, antenna substrate is made out of fabrics.
A SoftWear antenna is a combination of wearable and textile antenna properties. It is a mainly planar structure, such as patch. It is flexible in two dimensions and can simultaneously bend along two planes. It is optimized to perform in close proximity to the human body and conforms to attachment surfaces.

6.2 Review of the Literature
The study of wearable antennas has recently attracted significant interest amongst researchers. The earliest published work began in 1999, where a dual-band planar inverted-F antenna, made either of metal or very thin flexible printed circuit, was proposed [7] for wearable and ubiquitous equipment. There was much work on wearable antennas constructed using printed circuit technology, as researchers envisaged these being mounted in conventional pieces of electronics, like mobile phones, headsets, or other wearable equipment. Many of these are described in Chapter 3. However, it became clear early on that there was a big need for fabricbased antennas [8-10] for integration with clothing. Conductive fabrics were being used in other applications, such as antennas for satellite systems [5, 11, 12] and search and rescue [6, 13], and some knowledge transfer occurred. The integration of antennas into protective clothing for firefighters and other emergency personnel is a clear application where the users need autonomous communications support [13-18].
6.2.1 Antenna Types
Many varieties of antenna types have been transferred to fabric. Rectangular microstrip patch antennas have been demonstrated [19-21]. Circular patches [22-24] and patch arrays for extra vehicular activity suits for astronauts [25] have also been described. Fabric-based, aperture-coupled patch antennas are discussed in [26, 27] and planar inverted F antennas in [28-31]. Wire type antennas that have been demonstrated include FM reception [32, 33], loop antennas [34], spirals [35], and wideband wire antennas [36]. The FM reception antenna [33], shown in Figure 6.2, is a multiresonant embroidered folded dipole. The conductive embroidery was made of metal composite embroidery yarn (MCEY) and the substrate was woven polyester. In order to achieve a broad bandwidth from multiple resonances, the antenna consisted of five different folded dipoles arranged in parallel. The embroidered antenna was fastened onto a jacket, over the shoulder, from the left to the right forearm. The antenna operates from 80.5 MHz to 130 MHz with a 5-dB return loss even when movement was involved. When the antenna was worn and movements were introduced, the gain was low, ranging from -7.08 to -15.79 dBd, compared to free space. The study demonstrated the feasibility of such embroidered textile antennas that will be appealing due to its comfort, precise design variability, simple, and ecofriendly process.


Figure 6.2 Embroidered folded dipole in flat and worn conditions [33].

Dielectric resonators (DRAs) have also been applied to fabric antennas [37]. The antenna, shown in Figure 6.3, was made of cotton, aluminium fibre conductive yarn, and Rogers TMM10i for the dielectric. The measured antenna operated from 4.2GHz to 6.8 GHz as can be seen in Figure 6.4. In this study, the DRA that was tailored to suit wearable textile antenna implementation offers great advantages in terms of wide bandwidth, small size, and low conductive loss.


Figure 6.3 Simulated and fabricated textile bow tie DRA [37].



Figure 6.4 S11 of textile bow tie DRA [37].

Wearable fabric fractal antennas have also been described in [38-40]; ring type antennas have been described in [41, 42]; dual polarized antennas are described in [43-45]; and circularly polarized ones are described in [46-48]. A fabric waveguide slot antenna has been described in [49]. Electromagnetic bandgap materials (EBGs) have been applied to fabric antennas [50-59], and more details of this technique are given in Section 6.8.
An example of a dual band Sierpinski fractal planar inverted-F antenna (PIFA) (see Figure 6.5) was proposed by Soh et al, [40]. The design that incorporated a triangular Sierpinski gasket resonates at 2.45 GHz and 5.2 GHz. The antenna is made of fleece and commercial conductive textile ShieldIt and has comparable performance with one made with conventional copper tape. There was a slight resonance frequency shift for the measured ShieldIt PIFA, as can be seen in Figure 6.6. Apart from that, the gain and efficiency were also lower than the benchmarked copper tape PIFA. The authors predicted that the differences were due to lower conductivity of the ShieldIT material, poorer fabrication accuracy, discrepancy between real materials, and simulation.


Figure 6.5 Dual-band Sierpinkski fractal planar inverted-F antenna PIFA [40].



Figure 6.6 S11 of copper tape and ShieldIt PIFA prototypes [40].

There are many fabric antennas that have been designed for ultrawideband (UWB) [60-65], ISM 2.45 GHz [66-69], and radio frequency identification (RFID) applications [70-73]. An example of a UWB antenna [61] is a flexible antenna suitable for sporting activities and is shown in Figure 6.7. The antenna was made of a novel Neoprene substrate, which is typically used in scuba diving suits. The antenna has a notch function at the WLAN frequency of 5.2 GHz. The low-loss, nonconductive characteristic of Neoprene contributes to the good results of sustaining the notch frequency. Comparison between free space and on-body measurements with the antenna placed on the human hand as well as on a glove were conducted. The on-glove placement gave better agreement with the free space result in comparison to the on-hand placement (Figure 6.8). The better result was obtained due the addition of a substrate layer beneath the ground plane of the antenna, hence reducing the coupling between the antenna and the hand.


Figure 6.7 Textile UWB antenna made of Neoprene fabric [61].



Figure 6.8 Return loss in free space, on hand, and on glove placements [61].

Fabric-based vest antennas [74-76] and helmet antennas [77-78] have been developed primarily for the defence HF/VHF/UHF bands to improve soldier covertness. A dual band belt antenna [79], achieved gains of 2.8 dBi at 2.45 GHz and 4.5 dBi at 5.25 GHz. Various button-type antennas have been designed [80-85], and more details are given in Chapter 3. Button antennas designed for the shirt cuff have also been described [86, 87].
Active devices have been integrated into fabric antennas [88, 89], and beam steering achieved in [90, 91]. Multiple antenna systems have also been demonstrated. Diversity [92, 93] and MIMO [94-97] arrangements using fabric-based antennas have been shown to give useful diversity gain and capacity increase.
6.2.2 Body Placement, Bending, and Crumpling
In terms of applications, [98] describes a study of the placement of the fabric antenna on the human body. The effect of bending and crumpling of fabric antennas has been widely studied [99-106]. Bai and Langley [102-104] investigated the crumpling effect of PIFA textile antenna. The antenna, as seen in Figure 6.9, was made of felt and conductive Zelt materials and was designed to resonate at 2.4 GHz. They studied the antenna performance under crumpling conditions in free space and when placed on human body. The authors chose to investigate the crumpling in two perpendicular planes, which were the Y-Z and X-Z planes, as seen in Figure 6.10. From the results, under crumpling condition in free space a significant shift in resonance frequency was noticed for almost all crumpling cases. In addition, radiated power was lost at some angles and the efficiencies experienced a drop leading to total efficiency of 26% for one of the worst cases.


Figure 6.9 Textile PIFA antenna [104].



Figure 6.10 Textile PIFA antenna crumpled in Y-Z and X-Z planes [104].

When the crumpling effect was extended to on-body placement, the overall antenna efficiency reduced to as low as 16%. However, the forward gain increased for the crumpling condition compared to flat PIFA when placed on the human body. This was predicted mainly because crumpling leads to less interaction with the body. From the study, it is obvious that crumpling can significantly degrade the performance of a textile antenna in both free space and on-body cases.
6.2.3 Fabric Material Properties and Antenna Manufacture Methods
There has also been much consideration of the fabric materials: first, from the effect of the fabric on the performance of the antenna [5, 6, 107-114]; second, concerning how fabric antennas should be manufactured [5, 6, 115-118]; and third, relating to how fabric materials are measured, [119-124]. A description of the use of a reverberation chamber for measuring the efficiency of a fabric antenna is given in [125].
An example of a novel manufacturing process is given in Du et al., [115, 116] who proposed a four element textile array antenna for aerospace applications (Figure 6.11). The antenna used a new technology that weaved all the patch, substrate and ground plane together as one (Figure 6.12). Such manufacturing fabrication was deployed to avoid delamination of the conventional textile antenna. This technology will also enable the textile antenna to be integrated directly into the aircraft body compared to just being attached to it. From the results, there was a slight shift from the design resonance frequency 1.54 GHz and the measured gain was low, at 0.5dB. These effects were mainly due to the discrepancies in manufacturing and connection. In addition, the manufacturing process may create an uneven distribution of the conductive fabric that consequently leads to inhomogeneity of the electrical resistance.


Figure 6.11 Four element textile array antenna [116].



Figure 6.12 A 3-D woven composites structure [116].

6.3 Wearable Antennas: Critical Design Issues
For flexible antennas, textile materials form interesting substrates because fabric antennas can be easily integrated into clothing. Textile materials generally have a very low dielectric constant, which reduces the surface wave losses and improves the impedance bandwidth of the antenna. In comparison with the high dielectric substrates, textile antennas are physically larger. The variation of the dimensions due to stretching and compression are typical for fabrics, which have a strong influence on the electromagnetic characteristics of the antenna. The changes in the resonant length of the antenna detune its frequency. In addition, the substrate thickness changes the resonant frequency as well as the input impedance bandwidth which can be characterized by measuring the return loss of the antenna using a network analyzer.
Many textile antennas have been presented in [8, 9, 106-108]. These studies have demonstrated that textile materials are suitable for microstrip antenna substrates. In [98], the first fleece fabric GPS antenna developed was discussed, and in [107, 108] WLAN antennas were presented. However, GPS-operated systems require circularly polarized antennas, whereas WLAN needs linear polarization. In general, circularly polarized antennas need not have mathematically perfect circular polarization in order to function, but elastic antenna materials complicate the design process. Therefore, it is challenging to design a fabric antenna that has stable electrical characteristics. However, it has been recently demonstrated that flexible textile antennas can be designed for GPS, Galileo, and Iridium antenna requirements, including circular polarization over the specified frequency band [5, 146, 147]. In addition, it has been demonstrated that flexible and wearable antennas can be designed to meet demanding antenna performance specifications with demanding operational environment characteristics simultaneously [6, 146, 147].
The wearable antenna requirements are application-specific. However, common requirements for many applications are (a) lightweight, (b) inexpensive, (c) low maintenance, (d) have no setup requirements, and (e) have no damage from obstacles (are robust). In order to present the key components of wearable antennas, several major design features of these antennas are addressed in the following sections. The important design features include (a) selection of textile material, (b) antenna performance dependence on material properties, wrinkling, and so forth, (c) the influence of ground plane size; (d) effects of material conductivity, (e) performance enhancement using electromagnetic band gap structures, (f) the effect of the human body on the overall wearable antenna performance including optimal positioning of the antenna on the human body; and (g) the specific absorption rate (SAR). Figure 6.13 summarizes the key features related to wearable antenna design process. To address these issues, various application scenarios, such as GPS and WLAN, are demonstrated.


Figure 6.13 Key features related to the wearable antenna design process.

6.4 Textile Materials
Textile materials that are used as substrates for antennas can be divided into two main categories, natural, and man-made fibers. Synthetic fibers are polymers obtained from their molecular structure. The subsets of polymers have the word "poly-," as shown in Figure 6.14. The names of the fibers are generally trademarks of companies, and they are classified on the basis of their typical radical. For example, polyesters can have many different molecular formulas and as many trademarks [129-131]. One commonly known polymer is polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE), which is better known as Teflon.


Figure 6.14 Classification of synthetic fibers with example fabrics.

Polymers are extremely long molecules that consist of a repeating molecular structure. Very thin polymer fibers can be wound to yarn and woven or knitted. Dacron is a widely used polyester in textile materials. The five different synthetic fabric materials used in this study are fleece, upholstery fabric, vellux, synthetic felt, and Cordura®. Fleece is a synthetic woven polyester fabric that is felted on both sides, and is very soft and comfortable against the skin. Because polyester fibers are hydrophilic, they repel rather than absorb water. Hence, polyester fleece dries very rapidly. In this study, the fleece fabric thickness was 4 mm. Fleece fabric is commonly used for sports and leisurewear.
Upholstery fabric is composed of a mixture of polyester and polyacryl. It is woven and there are three fabric layers bound together by bounding wefts. It is quite thin, 1.1 mm, but its firmness makes it an interesting choice for antenna designs. It does not bend as easily as the soft fleece.
Vellux has a hairy synthetic fabric in its center, which is covered from both sides with a thin layer of foam plastic where the hair penetrates into the foam. As a result, it is a soft, collapsible fabric with good insulating properties. Vellux is somewhat elastic in both directions. The fabric thickness is 5 mm.
Synthetic felt resembles felt made out of wool, which designates that the fabric is not woven or knitted. It is about 4 mm thick, and the fibers are looser on the surface than at the center. It can be easily deformed and does not revert to its initial shape and dimensions.
Cordura® is a trademark of DuPont; the Cordura® used in our study is made by Delcotex, Germany [132]. The name of the fabric is Delinova 200, which is woven from Cordura® fibers. Cordura® is polyamide fiber and is well known as nylon. Delinova 200 has a fluorocarbon impregnation and it is coated with polyurethane. It weighs about 370 g/m2, is very hard, and has a constant thickness of 0.5 mm. It has very high tensile and tear strengths in the warps and wefts directions [132].
The value of complex permittivity of substrate is one of the most important electrical features for the selection of suitable materials and for the design of a textile antenna. Due to the orientations of the textile fibers, the fabrics are anisotropic and in principle, the complex permittivity values in three orientations are needed.
However, textile antenna structures are dominantly planar, and they consist of conducting microstrip element on the textile layers and ground plane on the other site of the textile layers. In a structure of this type, the electric field vector in the fabric is mainly in the normal direction (z-direction) of the surface; only near the edges of the antenna element E-field vector has also x- and y-components. Thus, dielectric properties in z-direction are most dominant for the most of the textile antenna structures.
When considering the elastic properties of fabrics, the texture and the material are decisive. Most fabrics are inelastic; real elastic fabrics are mostly knitted from elastic fibers or yarn. As elastic fabrics are used as antenna substrates, problems may occur. When stretched, the permittivity and the thickness of the fabric change, and as a result, the antenna resonant frequency changes. Stretching makes it difficult to attach the metallic layers stably onto the fabric, as just a few detached sections change the properties of the antenna significantly. Delinova 200 - Cordura® is an interesting choice of fabric for antennas, not only because of its strength and constant thickness, but also because of its almost perfect water resistance. It resists a very high water column of over 1,000 mm [132]. Water has a much higher dielectric constant than the fabric itself. When water is absorbed by a fabric antenna, the moistness changes the antenna performance dramatically. The higher dielectric permittivty of water dominates the antenna performance by reducing the resonant frequency. As the fabric antennas are used near the skin, the aspect of wetness of the fabric becomes more important. The other fabrics studied here, except Cordura®, absorb water easily. Therefore, the changes in performance parameters become more obvious with increasing moisture content. The only problem with Cordura® is its thickness (1.1mm) when designing wideband antennas. However, for narrowband systems, such as GPS, Cordura® could be ideal. In addition, in multilayer textile antennas where the outermost layer is made out of Cordura®, the bandwidth can be increased and the water resistant characteristics can be retained. A real-life example of such multilayer textile antenna is shown in Figure 6.1(a), which can be operated in GPS, Galileo and Iridium systems. The antenna element itself has been tested in very demanding operational environments [146, 147].
6.5 Effects of Substrate Materials: An Example of Fabric GPS Antenna
GPS antenna dimensions were calculated using FDTD software developed at University of California at Los Angeles (UCLA) ARAM Laboratory. Antennas were constructed out of fleece, felt, vellux, and upholstery fabrics. The geometry of the fabric GPS antenna is shown in Figure 6.15. Both the overall length and width of the antenna determine the resonant frequency of the antenna; the length and width of the antenna are 88 mm for the fleece fabric (εr = 1.1). The corners of the patch are cut off in order to obtain right-handed circular polarization, which is required for GPS receiver antennas. The ground plane size dimensions are 130 mm × 130 mm. Therefore, the ground plane is 16 mm larger in all directions than the radiating patch element itself. Conductive parts are made out of copper tape, whereas the substrate material is conventional fleece fabric. The substrate thickness is 4 mm. Together, the copper tape and the fleece fabric make the antenna flexible in nature. A coaxial SMA connector was used to feed the antenna, which was soldered on the copper tape patch and ground plane. The dielectric constant of a piece of the fabric can be found by using the so-called cavity perturbation method. In this method, the resonant frequency of an empty cavity is measured. The cavity is then filled with the desired dielectric material and the resulting resonant frequency is measured. The ratio of the two measured resonant frequencies gives the square root of fabric dielectric constant. Here, the sample fabric was not allowed to compress. The measured dielectric constant at 1.575 GHz for the various fabrics is typically between 1.1 and 4.0. Figure 6.16 shows photos of three constructed prototypes made out of different assemblies of upholstery fabric and CorduraR fabric.


Figure 6.15 GPS antenna geometry residing on a fabric substrate.



Figure 6.16 Examples of GPS antennas on various textile materials: (a) upholstery fabric, (b) CorduraR, and (c) two-layer upholstery fabric.

A GPS antenna can be considered as the source of an RF preamplifier. This load can be characterized in terms of impedance, which is equivalent to the input impedance of the antenna. In order to couple the maximum available power to an amplifier, the input impedance of the antenna must be matched to the output impedance of the amplifier. The values for the input impedance are usually specified as voltage standing wave ratio (VSWR) when they are less than 2:1. A 2:1 VSWR is equivalent to a 10-dB return loss, which means 10% of the incident power is reflected back to the source.
The input impedance of a circular polarized antenna typically has two resonances close to each other. This is due to the fact that the primary and secondary resonant modes of the antenna are determined by the length L and width W of the patch. These two modes can be combined by adjusting the ground plane size and the dimensions of the cut corners properly, which makes the rectangular patch antennas circularly polarized. This effect was examined with a fleece antenna; it was seen that the more the corners were cut, the further the minima of the two resonant modes got from each other on the frequency axis. Therefore, right-angled triangles with 10-mm legs were cut from the two corners. Thus, the minima stayed fairly close and the antenna was circularly polarized.
The distance between the radiating patch and the ground plane should remain constant in order to maintain the electrical characteristics of the antenna. In this study, all conductive sheets were made out of a copper tape in order to characterize the effect of textile materials accurately. If the copper tape detaches merely from one corner and the space between the metal layers varies, the resonant frequency of the antenna changes. The same effect occurs when the antenna is bent, as shown in Figure 6.17. The changes of electromagnetic characteristics caused by transformations are difficult to predict because fabrics can take many diverse shapes. Therefore, this kind of behavior was studied in practice, particularly with fleece and upholstery fabrics. The copper tape was tightly attached to the felt surface of fleece, and care was taken to ensure that the tape did not detach. However, the fleece antenna changed its shape too easily due to its softness. Bending effects on the radiation pattern are discussed in [127].


Figure 6.17 Resonant frequency fluctuation due to bending and corner detachment of the antenna.

The copper tape did not fasten itself properly onto the surface of the more rigid upholstery fabric. A detached edge or corner caused a change in the resonant frequency of the antenna but when the detached part was fastened back, the original resonant frequency was obtained as shown in Figure 6.17. This experiment provides a good example of the importance of the proper attachment method.
The thickness of the textile material has a great influence on the antenna bandwidth. Here, vellux, felt, fleece, and upholstery fabric all have nearly the same permittivity (εr = 1.1 - 1.2); therefore, the thickness generally determines the bandwidth. Figure 6.18 shows that it is possible to design well-matched input impedance for all the fabric substrates.


Figure 6.18 Comparison of return loss of different fabrics used as antenna substrates.

6.5.1 Effects of Ground Plane Size Attached to the Fabric Substrate on GPS Antenna Performance
The effect of different ground plane sizes on fabric antennas has been examined with upholstery and Cordura® fabrics. Two upholstery antennas were built with identical patches on rectangular ground planes. The dimension of the smaller ground plane was 100 mm × 100 mm and that of the larger was 140 mm × 140 mm. The return losses of both antennas were measured. The difference in the ground plane size has minimal effect on the resonant frequency, as shown in Figure 6.19.


Figure 6.19 Measured return loss with different ground plane sizes.

Antennas were measured in an electromagnetically anechoic chamber with fully automatic measurement software. Polarization measurements were performed using the polarization-pattern method [133]. A linearly polarized standard gain horn antenna was aimed at the antenna under test and rotated through a full 360°; relative gain measurements were then recorded. The resulting pattern gives the axial ratio (AR), but not the polarization sense or the polarization purity. The axial ratio is obtained by first measuring the vertical radiation pattern and then the horizontal radiation pattern. Based on the difference between resulted radiation patterns, the axial ratio can be calculated.
The main difference between the measured radiation patterns is their gain, which is shown in Figures 6.20 and 6.21. However, both prototyped antennas have good circular polarization characteristics. The axial ratio is around 1 dB.


Figure 6.20 Measured radiation pattern of upholstery GPS antenna with a 100-mm square ground plane with respect to dBi.



Figure 6.21 Measured radiation pattern of upholstery GPS antenna with a 140-mm square ground plane with respect to dBi.

Due to the unstable geometry, the radiation pattern differs slightly in identical measurements. The measurement arrangement also causes an error in the result, but it is hard to draw a line between these sources of error. Therefore, in order to evaluate the collective error, the upholstery antenna with 140 mm × 140 mm ground plane was measured eight times in the same position, E-plane (xz-plane). Between the measurements, the antenna was sometimes unfastened, fastened back, or straightened; the maximal variation from the maximum value of the gain was about 2 dB.
A preliminary prototype made out of Cordura® -Delinova 200 with circular polarization was designed. Figure 6.22 summarizes measured radiation patterns. Due to the properties of Cordura® presented in the previous section, it does not stretch or contract as do other fabric materials. Therefore, Cordura® is more suitable for circular polarized antennas with stable antenna performance parameters.


Figure 6.22 Measured radiation pattern for CorduraR GPS antenna with a 140-mm square ground plane.

6.6 Effect on Various Conductive Materials of Patch Antennas: An Example of WLAN Antenna on Fleece Fabric
The effect of the conductive layer material on textile antenna performance was studied with six different fabricated WLAN antennas. The patch antennas were mounted on the fleece fabric. The thickness of the fleece fabric was 3 mm and the measured relative permittivity of the substrate was 1.1 at 2.45 GHz.
The conductive surfaces were made out of different materials of which two were conductive fabrics, knitted copper and Aracon fabric, and different copper tape assemblies were used. These different assemblies are included in order to simulate possible fabric discontinuations. The difference between the copper tape antennas is that in the first one, the patch is made out of solid homogeneous copper tape. In the second, the patch is made out of vertically cut pieces of copper tape. In the last antenna, the patch is made out of horizontally cut pieces of copper tape, as shown in Figure 6.23. The horizontally cut pieces of the copper tape were soldered together in one case and the pieces were glued together in the other case.


Figure 6.23 Three different copper tape assemblies studied.

The textile antenna dimensions were first adjusted to correspond to the desired center frequency 2.45 GHz using the method of moments. According to the simulations, the patch length was 56 mm and its width was 51 mm. The feed was located 19 mm from the patch edge. The simulated return loss is shown in Figure 6.24. Antennas were fabricated based on the simulations with a 76 mm × 71 mm ground plane in all cases.


Figure 6.24 Simulated return loss of fleece fabric substrate with knitted copper.

Figure 6.25 shows the fabricated antenna where knitted copper fabric was used in the patch as well as in the ground plane. Antennas are named as follows; antenna A—solid copper tape, antenna B—knitted copper fabric, antenna C—vertically cut copper tape, antenna D—horizontally cut copper tape, antenna E—horizontally cut and soldered copper tape, antenna F—aracon fabric. The radiation patterns at 2.45 GHz in both E- and H-planes (xz- and yz-planes, respectively) and the return loss were measured for all antennas. The return loss was measured using an HP8722D network analyzer. The radiation patterns were measured in an electromagnetically anechoic chamber using HP8590 spectrum analyzer and a fully automated measuring system. The antenna gain was measured using the gain transfer method. All six antennas were measured under similar conditions, and they were compared in terms of antenna gain, radiation pattern, half-power beam width, impedance bandwidth, and impedance matching. The results showed that the conductive material plays an important role in an optimal textile antenna design.


Figure 6.25 Fabricated textile antenna with knitted copper and fleece fabric. (Photo courtesy of Mikko Keskilammi).

Figures 6.26 and 6.27 show the measured return loss for all six antennas. Antennas A, C, and E have very similar results. The impedance of these antennas is well matched at the desired frequency. The impedance bandwidths also are similar, as shown in Table 6.1. Antenna B has also a good impedance match, and the impedance bandwidth is wider compared to the antennas made out of copper tape. However, the increase in impedance bandwidth is due to the increased conductor loss. As can be seen, antennas D and F have notably worse performance. Both impedance match and bandwidth have degraded. The results indicate that both conductive tapes and fabrics are possible conductive layer materials for fabric antennas in terms of impedance matching and bandwidth. However, observing the results obtained from the different configurations, not all copper tape and fabric configurations are suitable for fabric antennas. If a conductive fabric is used, it must have good conductivity and it must be densely knitted. The Aracon fabric has poor results even though it is quite densely knitted. This is due to the fact that the thread has insufficient conductivity.


Figure 6.26 Measured return loss of the fabrics and solid copper tape.



Figure 6.27 Measured return loss of the different copper tape assemblies.


Table 6.1 Measured Antenna Parameters with Different Conductive Layer Materials
The results also show that the conductive material need not be homogeneous in order to obtain good impedance match and bandwidth. Both the solid copper tape and the vertically cut copper tape have very similar results, although the pieces of copper tape were not even soldered together. Hence, the conductive elements can have discontinuities as long as they are parallel to the surface current. When the discontinuations are parallel to the surface current, they will not cause reflections of EM fields. The antenna fabricated on horizontally cut copper tape had notably worse performance compared with the other configurations; this is due to discontinuations perpendicular to the current flow direction. However, when the pieces were soldered together, the results corresponded well with the results obtained with solid copper tape.
Figure 6.28 (a-f) shows the radiation patterns of all six antennas. Antenna gains, cross-polarization ratios, and beam widths are listed in Table 6.2. The antenna gain was affected by conductive materials in the same way as the impedance match and bandwidth. Solid copper tape, vertically cut copper tape, and knitted copper fabric, as well as horizontally cut and soldered copper tape, all had similar gain values. The measured gain is around 7 dBi. Other two antennas (antennas D and F) have notably lower gain. The discontinuities perpendicular to the current flow decrease the antenna gain more than 2 dB. Horizontal discontinuities (antenna D) corrupt the antenna's performance since the current flow is interrupted. Discontinuities result in power losses that are likely caused by an increase in ohmic losses and spurious radiation from discontinuities. The poor performance of Aracon fabric results from low fabric conductivity.


Figure 6.28 Measured radiation patterns for different conductive layer material. The radiation patterns represent the gain values in different directions: (a) solid copper tape, (b) vertically cut copper tape, (c) horizontally cut copper tape, (d) horizontally cut and soldered copper tape, (e) knitted copper fabric, and (f) Aracon fabric.


Table 6.2 Measured Radiation Parameters with Different Conductive Layer Materials
The conductive material has an effect on cross-polarization ratio, but not a notable effect on the beam width. Cross-polarization ratios vary from -12 to -25 dB. The comparison of the cross-polarization ratios indicated that the reason for the low gain and overall weak performance of the aracon fabric antenna could be partly caused by the increased cross-polarization level. More power is transmitted to undesired directions, resulting in lower gain. The lower gain of the knitted copper fabric can also be explained by the decrease in cross-polarization ratio compared to antennas with copper tape. On the other hand, the weaker performance of the horizontally cut copper tape antenna was related to the greater power losses and not the increased cross-polarization radiation.
Comparisons show that the conductive material has very little effect on the beamwidth. All of the six antennas had similar values. As shown in Table 6.2, in the E-plane, all six antennas have beamwidths around 75 degrees while in the H-plane, they are around 60 degrees.
All antennas have a wide main beam and, because of a small ground plane, a large back lobe radiation. The nulls were about 90 degrees from the maximum direction of the main lobe, resulting in wide main beam. The measured radiation patterns in both the E- and H-planes corresponded well with each other. In both the E- and H-planes, the maximum received power levels were almost the same with a slight difference on the main beamwidth.
6.7 Dual Frequency Wearable Antenna Design: An Example of a U-Slot Patch
Wearable systems can exploit different radio systems to communicate between the antennas within the clothing and the outside world. For example, wireless short range links find their use in sending commands from a central processing unit (CPU) to remote-located sensors in the clothing, and data from sensors to CPU for further processing. Additionally, a long range wireless communication can be used for location purposes (GPS) or mobile phone application, such as smart messaging, browsing the Internet, and call dialing. These aspects set the demand for wearable dual-band antennas.
Figure 6.29 shows the geometry and the dimensions in millimeters of the U-slot patch antenna mounted on the surface of a 3.5 mm thick fleece fabric. The length and width of the ground plane are 110 and 130 mm, respectively. The measured relative permittivity of the substrate is 1.1. The conducting surfaces are made out of copper tape with a thickness of 0.075 mm. The dimensions L and Lh are the critical antenna dimensions. The dimension Lh is approximately λ/2, where λ is determined by the higher resonant frequency. The antenna length L determines the lower resonant frequency. Therefore, L is approximately l/2 without the presence of the U-slot. However, the presence of the U-slot lowers the resonant frequency by 5%. In this study, the effect was about 200 MHz. Hence, L needed to be shortened. The size of the ground plane was selected to be large enough to achieve acceptable performance with dimensions 110 mm × 130 mm. However, the ground plane dimensions were not optimized in this study.


Figure 6.29 Geometry of the prototype U-slot dual-frequency antenna (dimensions in millimeters).

The antenna is fed by probe a feed soldered at point F as shown in Figure 6.29. The feed is located at (42 mm, 44 mm). The feeding position was optimized using MoM simulations. A change in the feeding position alters the impedance match at both frequencies, while the resonant frequencies remain unchanged.
The wearable dual-band textile antenna shown in Figure 6.29 was prototyped and measured; the photo of the handmade prototype is shown in Figure 6.30. The wrinkles on the antenna copper tape were also present in the measurements. The slot was created in the copper tape and the conducting elements were mounted on fleece fabric. The ground plane was also made out of copper tape. In order to study the radiation characteristics of the fabricated antenna, the radiation patterns for both frequencies were measured in both H- and E-planes.


Figure 6.30 Photo of constructed and measured dual-band U-slot fabric antenna.

Figure 6.31 shows the measured and simulated return loss of the prototype. The simulated results were obtained using MoM. The results show good agreement between the measured and simulated return loss, even though the antenna has wrinkles. The impedance is well matched at the desired frequency in both cases, and the measured return loss corresponds well with simulations. The measured bandwidths also match well with simulations. The measured lower resonant frequency was 1.927 GHz and the higher resonant frequency was 2.450 GHz.


Figure 6.31 Simulated and measured return loss of the dual-band fleece fabric antenna.

It is worth noting that the antenna fails to achieve the specified bandwidths of GSM1900 and WLAN bands. The required bandwidth for GSM1900 operation is 1.850-1.990 GHz and for WLAN operation 2.4-2.484 GHz. The measured bandwidth for the lower frequency band was 1.876-1.967 GHz and for the higher frequency band 2.414-2.491 GHz. The simulations show a similar behavior. The bandwidth was determined from S11 = -6 dB limit, which corresponds to VSWR of less than 3. The bandwidths of the antenna remain too narrow because of fabric thickness. The simulations also predict that the dielectric should be thicker in order to obtain the required bandwidth.
The effect of fabric thickness on the impedance bandwidth was studied by constructing another antenna with a different fabric used as a dielectric. The second antenna was mounted on Vellux fabric. The relative permittivity of this fabric was close to the fleece fabric, but the thickness of the Vellux fabric is 5.5 mm. In order to compare the two antennas and their performance, the second antenna needed to be simulated and optimized for the correct dimensions. The dimensions of the second antenna were optimized so that this antenna also operates at 1.9 and 2.4 GHz bands. Figure 6.32 shows the measured return loss for both antennas.


Figure 6.32 Measured return loss of two antennas with different thicknesses.

The results show that thickness affects the impedance bandwidth as predicted. The second antenna with thicker fabric had wider bandwidth, and it nearly met the GSM1900 bandwidth requirements. The measured bandwidth for lower frequency band was 1.837-1.989 GHz, and for higher frequency band was 2.404-2.517 GHz. The results indicate the importance of proper fabric selection. Therefore, the desired requirements for a particular application need to be properly considered and a suitable fabric needs to be selected to meet these requirements.
The radiation characteristics of the dual-band fleece fabric antenna were also studied. Figures 6.33 and 6.34 show the measured radiation patterns at the lower and higher resonant frequencies, respectively, for E- and H-plane (xz- and yz-planes). The peak antenna gain at the lower resonant frequency was about 9.26 dBi, and was 7.99 dBi at the higher resonant frequency. The half-power beamwidths in the E-plane were 64° at the lower resonant frequency and 53° at the higher resonant frequency; in the H-plane, the corresponding values were 61° and 63°, respectively. The measured radiation patterns at both resonant frequencies corresponded well in both E- and H-planes. In E-plane, the radiation patterns had very similar received power levels at both frequencies in the direction of the main beam. Both radiation patterns also had minima in similar directions.


Figure 6.33 Measured radiation pattern at 1.92 GHz. Solid line represents Co-pol and dashed line represents X-pol for (a) xz-plane, and (b) yz-plane.



Figure 6.34 Measured radiation pattern at 2.45 GHz. Solid line represents Co-pol and dashed line represents X-pol for (a) xz-plane, and (b) yz-plane.

6.8 Wearable Electromagnetic Bang Gap Antenna (WEBGA): An Example of WLAN Antenna
The size of a textile antenna can become an issue due to the low dielectric constant of a fabric material. However, the thickness of the antenna is not a major issue, as many outer garments can have thicknesses of up to 10 mm depending on the purpose of the clothing. In addition, most clothes are composed of different numbers of layered textiles. This provides new possibilities for antenna designers to develop multilayer antennas. Useful applications of electromagnetic bandgap structures have emerged in [134-136].
The term electromagnetic band-gap (EBG) has been used to describe various types of dielectric or metallic periodic structures. A complete electromagnetic bandgap material is a periodic structure in which no electromagnetic propagation is possible within a certain frequency range for all angles and polarization states. An EBG structure forms a lattice whose period determines its resonant frequency (i. e., the range of frequencies where the stop band exists for the transmission of microwave signals). This provides an effective method to suppress surface wave propagation and higher order harmonics in integrated microwave circuits and antennas.
EBG structures can offer remarkable improvements over conventional microwave antennas and systems. For example, an antenna radiation pattern, radiation efficiency, and impedance bandwidth can all be improved with EBG structures, and even the antenna size can be reduced. However, EBG mushrooms have gained the most attention where an antenna is surrounded by metallic patches. There are many reports providing accurate information on how low-cost, EBG-mushrooms can be designed with patch antennas [137-140].
Figure 6.35 shows the geometry of a two-layer EBG textile antenna for WLAN. It has 6 × 6 EBG mushroom-like patches without vias on top of the first dielectric layer of thickness 4 mm. The side length of each mushroom patch is 26 mm and spacing between each is 2 mm. On top of EBG mushrooms is the next dielectric layer of thickness 4 mm and the main radiating patch is on top of this layer. The dielectric material is conventional felt fabric with a dielectric constant of 1.1. A coaxial SMA connector was provided for the antenna feed. The feeding pin is not in contact with the EBG surface. The feed was located at a distance of 4 mm from the main patch edge in order to provide a good match. In actual applications, however, the SMA connector could be replaced by more appropriate connector, such as microstrip line. Conductive parts, such as EBG mushrooms, patch, and ground plane, are made out of copper tape. Figure 6.36 shows the photo of a measured prototype. A photo of an EBG surface is shown in Figure 6.37. Figure 6.38 shows the simulated S11 for wearable WLAN antenna with and without EBG mushrooms. The result reveals that the resonant frequency is shifted down by 20% with the addition of EBG mushrooms. The main patch size is 44 mm × 38 mm and 52 mm × 46 mm for EBG and without EBG, respectively. This means that the area of the EBG antenna is less than 70% of that of a conventional patch antenna.


Figure 6.35 Geometry of the wearable electromagnetic bandgap antenna WEBGA. In this context EBG is referred to as the embedded patches in the substrate as shown in the figure.



Figure 6.36 Photo of the measured prototype wearable electromagnetic bandgap antenna, WEBGA.



Figure 6.37 Photo of the embedded patches.



Figure 6.38 Comparison of resonance frequencies of WEBGA and conventional textile patch antenna (FDTD simulated results).

The return loss was measured with an HP8510B network analyzer. Measured return loss is shown in Figure 6.39. It can be seen that center frequency is 2.55 GHz, slightly off the desired 2.45 GHz. However, the input-match bandwidth is 275 MHz which is 100 MHz wider compared to conventional textile patch antenna. The input-match bandwidth is defined as VSWR 2:1, or when the S11 is not more than −10 dB. This shows that input-match bandwidth improvement is remarkable with the added advantage of the antenna size reduction.


Figure 6.39 Measured S11 of WEBGA.

Radiation characteristics were simulated using the FDTD method developed at UCLA and the results are shown in Figure 6.40 for xz- and yz-planes. The directivity of the WEBGA is around 10 dB. Figures 6.41 and 6.42 show the measured radiation patterns in the xz- and yz-planes, respectively, and very good agreement with simulations is observed.


Figure 6.40 Simulated radiation pattern of WEBGA in the two principal planes.



Figure 6.41 Measured xz-plane radiation pattern at 2.55 GHz.



Figure 6.42 Measured yz-plane radiation pattern at 2.55 GHz.

6.8.1 Remarks on Antenna Bending
In general, wearable systems flat antenna surfaces cannot be provided. Therefore, antennas should properly function even if the antenna is bent. Two textile WLAN antennas are again employed to study the effect of antenna bending; namely, conventional patch antenna and previously introduced wearable EBG antenna.
The test setup, shown in Figure 6.43, includes two plastic cylinders with diameters of 70 and 150 mm. These dimensions are typical for human body parts, such as the arm, leg, and shoulder. Antennas are bent around the cylinder along two principal planes, xz and yz. The coordinates system is shown in Figure 6.35. Figures 6.44 and 6.45 show the results for the patch and EBG antennas, respectively, for both bending diameters.


Figure 6.43 Antenna bending measurement setup at UCLA's anechoic chamber.



Figure 6.44 Measured S11 results of patch antenna bending.



Figure 6.45 Measured S11 results of EBG antenna bending.

Table 6.3 summarizes the results of Figures 6.44 and 6.45 in terms of resonance frequency and input-match bandwidth deviation due to antenna bending. It can be observed that yz-plane bending has minor effect on antenna performance compared to xz-plane bending. This is due to the fact that xz-plane bending affects on the antennas' resonance length. The more the antenna is bent (i.e., around smaller diameter), the more resonance length is reduced, and thus it is shifted up. This is observable for both antennas. However, yz-plane bending affects on the resonance frequency of the conventional patch antenna as well. In terms of resonance frequency stability due to the bending, EBG antenna performs better than the conventional patch antenna. The EBG antenna is easier to place within clothing, such as a sleeve, when the antenna's xz-plane is aligned with the sleeve length. Similar observations can be made for input-match bandwidth. The input-match bandwidth of patch antenna varies remarkably when the antenna is bent. However, the EBG antenna clearly outperforms the patch antenna, and the bandwidth deviation is notably smaller.

Table 6.3 Comparison of the Bending Effect of Patch and EBG Antennas
The effect of antenna bending on radiation pattern and efficiency was studied in [101]. The results show that antenna bending has remarkable effect on radiation characteristics, such as radiation pattern shape and gain and radiation efficiency. It is intuitively clear that antenna bending broadens the radiation pattern in the bending plane, which results a drop of gain. In addition, it was also noticed that radiation efficiency slightly reduces due to the antenna bending. The results of radiation efficiency are summarized in Figure 6.46. These results are compared in Table 6.4 for the EBG antenna and its equivalent structure without the EBG.


Figure 6.46 Measured radiation efficiency in flat and bent cases for EBG and conventional (no EBG) antenna.


Table 6.4 Comparison of Gain and Beamwidth with Respect to Flat and Bent Case
6.9 Wearable Antennas Near the Human Body: An Example of a WLAN Antenna
Wearable antennas need to be designed to operate properly in the vicinity of the human body. In addition to this, special attention must be paid to the specific absorption rate (SAR) which aids in the quantitative study of power absorption issues. However, the use of mobile telephones and other personal communication services has initiated an active interest in research activities devoted to human-antenna interaction. Most of the research effort has been focused on the interaction between the handset antennas and human head [141-145]. However, in the case of wearable antennas, they are usually placed in the vicinity of the human torso or arm.
Here we address the following issues: textile antenna input-match performance in the vicinity of human body, textile antenna's radiation characteristics, power absorbed in the human body, and peak and averaged SAR over 1g tissue at 2.4 GHz ISM band.
6.9.1 Models and Methods
An FDTD algorithm developed at UCLA has been employed to model a WLAN textile antenna for wearable applications. The textile antenna has a substrate material made of conventional fleece fabric with a measured relative dielectric constant of 1.1 at 2.4 GHz. The thickness of the fabric is 8 mm to provide adequate inputmatch bandwidth for the ISM band. The antenna has a ground plane and main radiating patch made out of knitted copper. The antenna performance was studied with a series of simulations yielding an optimum patch size of 52 mm × 46 mm. The ground plane is 20 mm larger in each dimension. The feed is located 4 mm from the patch edge.
Two different human body models are used to study the textile antenna performance. Torso model is constructed from CT and MRI images of a real human body. Its cell size is 4 mm × 4 mm × 4 mm containing detailed organ models. This model is used to study the antenna performance where the antenna is located on the human chest. The other model is a simplified arm containing 2-mm skin layer, muscle, and bone. Anatomical features of human body can be modeled by assigning a permittivity and conductivity to different tissues in the body and to each cell within the spatial grid. The electrical parameters corresponding to each tissue around the operating frequency 2.4 GHz have been obtained from published data [145], and their electrical parameters are listed in Table 6.5. The cell size in the arm is 1 mm × 1 mm × 1mm. For comparison results a half-wave dipole antenna is simulated in the same locations. In SAR computations, the averaged SAR is obtained by calculating SAR over six neighboring cells. Antenna locations with respect to the human body model are shown in Figure 6.47.

Table 6.5 Arm Model Parameters at 2.4 GHzCase


Figure 6.47 Human torso for wearable antenna modeling. The antenna locations are shown in black.

6.9.2 Results
Figure 6.48 shows the theoretical results for the textile WLAN antenna with and without the presence of the human torso or arm. The difference in these simulations is that the antenna was modeled with a coarser grid in the human torso as explained in the previous section. Therefore, the feed location is not as accurate as in other cases. It can be seen that textile WLAN performs very well in all cases. Therefore, the human body does not affect the input-match. Figures 6.49 and 6.50 show a similar study for xz- and yz-plane radiation patterns, respectively. As can be noted, there is a difference in the back radiation beam widths. In all these cases, the directivity is close to 9 dB.


Figure 6.48 Comparison of the resonant frequency of textile antenna in the presence of human body and without it.



Figure 6.49 Comparison of xz-plane radiation pattern of textile antenna in the presence of human body and without it.



Figure 6.50 Comparison of yz-plane radiation pattern of textile antenna in the presence of human body and without it.

Having investigated the effect of the body on the electromagnetic characteristics of a textile WLAN antenna, the rate of energy absorption as defined by the specific absorption rate (SAR) is now discussed, which should aid in the quantitative study of power absorption issues. Table 6.6 summarizes the absorbed power, maximum SAR, and 1g averaged SAR for textile WLAN antenna. The results are compared with a standard, half-wavelength long dipole located at the same positions as the textile WLAN antenna. The dipole distance from the human body was 4 mm. This results show that textile antenna performs significantly better. Figure 6.51 shows the normalized near field caused by the chest attached antenna. The strongest near field values are observed near the antenna. The figure also shows that the near field is weak inside the body.

Table 6.6 Computed SAR Values at 2.4 GHz for 1W Delivered Power


Figure 6.51 Normalized near field distribution caused by the chest attached antenna.

Finally, how EBG mushroom vias affect on the SAR performance of previously introduced textile EBG antenna is discussed. The same human body model has been employed together with the EBG antenna attached onto the chest. Table 6.7 summarizes the SAR performance for EBG antenna with and without vias at 2.45 GHz. The computed results show that the addition of the vias decreases the absorbed power, and thus reduces the SAR. Figure 6.52 shows the normalized near-field caused by the chest attached textile EBG antenna without vias. The strongest near field values which are observed near the antenna.

Table 6.7 Comparison of the Effect of Vias on EBG Antenna SAR Performance


Figure 6.52 Electric near field distribution due to EBG antenna without vias is shown at 2.45 GHz (normalized for 1W delivered power).

6.10 Wearable Antenna Environmental Performance Issues
System operation reliability is especially pronounced in military applications [146, 147]. The information link must be sustained in harsh operational conditions. The selection of the antenna materials plays a paramount role in optimal design of such textile antennas. Likewise, in conventional antenna design, the selection of mechanical and electrical material characteristics is a trade-off for optimal system performance.
The operational environment exposes the soldier-mounted or wearable antennas to frequent bending and physical abrasion. These requirements are unique to wearable antennas. In addition, textile materials require special attention in terms of fiber material, structural characteristics of the fabric, and water resistance. Careful design of the weaving pattern and weaving density can greatly affect the fabric stretchability, compressibility, and water absorbance.
The above-mentioned characteristics are related to mechanical performance. The next step is to consider electrical material characteristics from the set of mechanically acceptable materials, which is equal in conventional antenna design process. However, in the textile antenna design process the optimum system performance is commonly achieved with a compound of various materials, not just one. This results because in textile antenna design, the "radome" (i. e., outer layer or the protective layer of the antenna) must be designed simultaneously with the main antenna itself. The antennas, which must withstand frequent bending, should be designed to tolerate the resonance frequency shifting. This leads to a wideband antenna design. How wideband the antenna should be, depends on the application bandwidth, the bending curvature, axial ratio, and the system requirements.
The textile antenna design steps can be summarized in general level as:

System specification translated into antenna requirements;
Selection and inspection of material mechanical properties;
Selection and inspection of material electrical properties based on above set;
Select one or more materials whose compound meets the requirements in system, mechanical and electrical performance;
Traditional (wideband) antenna design;
Design validation and verification;
Type approval if required.

The low-profile antennas make them ideal candidates for body-worn applications. Moreover, the ground plane of the structure effectively shields the body tissues affecting the antenna performance.
The antenna test campaign was carried out for a circularly polarized patch comprising only textile materials [147]. The substrate is made by stacking low-loss ballistic textiles to make the core of the antenna. Furthermore, the outer surfaces of the textile stack are optimized for the attachment of the conductive layers by adding a smooth Cordura layers to both sides of the substrate. The antenna is tested with and without any cover material. The textile cover pouch is made out of an abrasion resistant waterproof fabric. The conductive layers are fabricated using a woven metal-plated polyester yarn. The radiating element, as well as the ground plane, is sewed to the substrate using a polyester yarn with an optimized sewing technique. No adhesives are used to maintain the antenna efficiency. The measured antenna efficiency is between 70% and 80% in the frequency band of interest. The measured 3-D gain and axial ratio is shown in Figure 6.53. Furthermore, the measured radiation properties as a function of frequency are shown in Figure 6.54. The zenith gain and axial ratio are presented. The RHCP gain remains above 5 dBic over the GPS and Iridium bands. The axial ratio is optimized for Iridium system.


Figure 6.53 Measured gain in dBic (a) and AR in dB (b) [147].



Figure 6.54 Zenith axial ratio and gain as a function frequency [147].

6.10.1 The Effect of Ice, Water, and Snow on Wearable Antenna Performance
Pure water has a permittivity of approximately 81. This, however, depends on factors such as salinity, temperature, and frequency. The Water Debye model can be applied to approximate water behavior at the frequency range of interest. When frozen, the electrical behavior of water changes dramatically. The permittivity drops to 3.15 [148] and is nearly independent of frequency. The electrical behavior of snow is very close to that of ice because it can be considered as a mixture of air and ice. However, the density of snow, as well as the amount of the impurities, affects the attenuation of a propagating wave. The tests carried out in this setup use pure water to examine the effect of ice and water. Second, the snow tests are carried out with snow that exists in the nature with all its impurities.
The change of the electrical properties of water in different states was validated by measurements. First, a textile antenna without cover was immersed into water and the soaked antenna was frozen at −10°C. The whole structure was bounded by an ice sheet, and the substrate was thus a combination of ice and low-permittivity textile yarns. After measuring the frozen antenna, the center frequency had reduced from 1.6 to 1.23 GHz compared to the dry state.
Next, the ice was melted, and the return loss was measured. The resonances were shifted further due to the high permittivity of liquid water. The measured return losses of the antenna without the cover are shown in Figure 6.55. The center frequency of the wet antenna was 882 MHz. After drying the antenna performance recovered the initial, such as a dry case.


Figure 6.55 Return loss of dry, frozen, and soaked antenna without cover [147].

Next, the antenna with fabric cover pouch was immersed to water and left outdoors to freeze (Figure 6.56) for 2 weeks to imitate the natural low-temperature case. The temperature varied between -10°C and -20°C. Snow built up on top of the antenna (Figure 6.57), and the frozen antenna was measured first with snow on top. The results are shown in Figure 6.58. It is seen that the snow has only small effect on the measured return loss. More importantly, the return loss of the antenna with the cover was more immune to frequency fluctuation than the antenna without the cover. This was due to the fact that the water was not absorbed into the antenna structure, but only as a thin surface on top the fabric cover pouch. The center frequencies of the antennas with and without the cover were reduced by factors of 0.96 and 0.77, respectively, when comparing them to the dry antenna. After drying, the antenna recovered to the initial case.


Figure 6.56 Frozen antenna [147].



Figure 6.57 Pile of snow on top of the antenna [147].



Figure 6.58 Return loss of dry antenna compared with return loss of frozen antenna. The antenna utilizes a fabric radome [147].

In the study, it was noticed that the measurement results show that a water tight fabric cover bag clearly helps retain the antenna operable in harsh environmental conditions. Textile antennas without a waterproof cover are subject to moisture absorption, which can degrade the antenna performance, especially if the antenna substrate is made out of a material that absorbs moisture.
6.10.2 Example of Environmental Test During an Iridium Phone Call
The Iridium tests using textite antennas are closer to the real-life use case. There are no absolute measured values to show the system performance and the available margin in the link budget in contrast to certain environmental conditions. However, this is quite common in real practical cases. One can characterize and measure a single component (e.g., an antenna) in laboratory conditions. Eventually, it has to be tested in real use case scenarios to see how it survives in the extreme conditions. This is the purpose of the Iridium phone tests.
The full immersion into a water bucket can be considered an extreme test for a textile antenna. Depending on the material selections, the antenna substrate can absorb a lot of moisture, which effectively detunes the antenna out of the correct operation band. The immersion test with Iridium phone is shown in Figure 6.59.


Figure 6.59 Immersion test while Iridium call is established and active [147].

A test call was established between Iridium and GSM phones. While the call was active, the textile antenna interfaced with the Iridium phone was immersed into a water bucket. Obviously, phone call data was not going through the network when antenna remained below the water surface. However, the connection was restored instantly after the antenna was taken out of the bucket. The antenna could be held completely under water for several seconds without disconnecting the active call.
The second test related to winter conditions. Approximately two centimeters of snow was piled up on top of the antenna, as shown in Figure 6.57. The second test call was made in order to verify that the excess snow on top of the antenna did not have significant effect on the communication link performance. The snow on top of the antenna was dry snow, since the outdoor temperature was well below zero degrees centigrade. The test call was made successfully and without any additional distortion in the audio signal.
The third test exposed the antenna to mechanical stress. The textile antenna was bent during the active phone call. Iridium system mobile terminal antennas employ right-handed circular polarization. Bending of the antenna potentially changes the antenna polarization from circular to linear which effectively reduces the link margin. Small bending radii were employed to create severe mechanical stress as shown in Figure 6.60. Furthermore, the antenna was bent along both major axis and also in diagonal directions. Again, the reading of the field strength indicator and the quality of the audio signal were the parameters that were used to evaluate to transmission/reception quality. A test call was made successfully despite the bending of the antenna.


Figure 6.60 Bending of the antenna in multiple directions [147].

6.10.3 Destructive Antenna Tests
Textile antennas have flexible substrate, which can conform to the user body posture. Flexibility can be an advantage, since material compression can absorb energy from the destructive force, and therefore, the overall damages can remain at a lower level compared to fully rigid structures. The woven structure of the antenna fabrics is able to absorb the impact energy from splinters, since the woven structure allows wefts to move interlocked, and therefore, preserve the integrity of the textile material. However, it is obvious that even ballistic textiles cannot completely remain intact from a shotgun blast.
Wireless infrastructure devices, such as base stations, are commonly tested against firearm resistance. Such a test is described in the Telcordia Network Equipment Building Systems (NEBS) GR-487-CORE firearm resistance test [149], which is employed as a testing standard for electronic equipment cabinets. The specifications for this fire arms resistance test are here given in generalized form as follows:

The test object is in perpendicular position towards the shotgun blast direction;
The shooter uses 12-gauge shotgun with 28 inch modified choke barrel;
The shotgun shell is 2-3/4 inch (70 mm), containing 1 or 1-1/8 ounce load (No. 6 steel load);
The distance between shooter and the device under test is 50 feet (15 m).

The Telcordia NEBS test setup was adopted when planning the shooting test for the antennas. The performed test is not identical to the test described above, but the principle and the main components are. The differences are found at the employed shotgun shells: the load of the employed shotgun shells contained lead pellets and different pellet sizes were used (2.5, 3, 4 mm in diameter compared to the No. 6 pellet diameter is 2.77 mm).
A sketch of the test arrangement is shown in Figure 6.61. There was a special wooden support for the antennas that enabled perpendicular attachment of the test sample. Furthermore, scatter diagram of the shotgun blast was tested by attaching a sheet of paper between the poles of the antenna support frame. The resulting scattering diagram is shown in Figure 6.62. The scattering diagram shows reasonable even-tempered spread in order to produce enough pellet hits to the antennas under test.


Figure 6.61 Illustration of the setup used in the shooting test [149].



Figure 6.62 Scattering diagram of the test shooting from a 15mdistance [149].

The three rigid antennas operating at L-band for were selected comparison purposes. Antennas are patch antennas as is illustrated in Figure 6.63. All these antennas have conductive parts, such as the radiator element and the ground plane at the back side of the substrate, made of solid copper.


Figure 6.63 Rigid antennas selected for testing. The antenna ID shown in the left-hand upper corner is used when indentifying measurement data [149].

It is worth noting that only antenna R1 has etched copper layers for both the patch and the ground plane, whereas antennas R2 and R3 have copper tapes applied to the surface of the substrate. This makes antennas R2 and R3 mechanically different from antenna R1. Antenna R2 has an etched copper ground plane, but the radiating element is made out of a copper tape. Antenna R3, on the other hand, has both the radiating patch and the ground plane made out of applied copper tape. The substrate materials for antennas R1 and R2 are Rogers laminates RO4003 and RO4350B, respectively; R3 is made out of a woven fiberglass substrate.
After the antennas were shot, the visual inspection was made. Copper sheets were heavily damaged due to penetrated pellets; this could be seen from the back side of R3 antenna (Figure 6.64). The copper foil had stretched significantly due to the propagation of the pressure waves, which means that there were significant air gaps between the ground plane and the substrate affecting the antenna resonances. The drawback with rigid copper foil is that deformations are not reversible.


Figure 6.64 Copper ground plane has severely stretched from the back side of the antenna (R3) [149].

From the top side of the antenna, there were clean, sharp-edged pellet sized holes. However, the physical impact had deformed the substrate during the test, which had partially detached the radiating element from the substrate. This had formed a few additional air gaps between the patch and the substrate. The same phenomenon was observed with antenna R2.
The damages after shooting the antenna R1 are shown in Figure 6.65. Penetrated pellets peeled the ground plane much more than compared to the actual pellet diameter seen in the front side. A similar effect was noticed with antenna R2. An important observation is that the conductive layers of the fully textile antennas do not have such severe damages as the rigid antennas. This can be seen from the entrance and exit holes shown in Figure 6.66. The fully textile conductor does not rip or peel in a similar way to solid copper. Therefore, the deformations are smaller and antenna is more likely to operate as designed. The physical damages indicate that there are different mechanisms that disturb the electrical performance of the antenna. Firstly, there is a direct effect of the ripped holes in the conductive layers on current flow paths. Secondly, air gaps that are formed between rigid substrates and attached conductive layers, and thirdly, changes in the substrate permittivity when the pellet removes some amount of the dielectric material. Additionally, in some cases the pellet which has a moderate conductivity, may be stopped between the patch and the ground plane and create an electrical short circuit.


Figure 6.65 Antenna backside (a) and front part (b). In (b), pellet hits have been peeled from the copper sheet from the Rogers substrate (R1). [149].



Figure 6.66 (a) Exit holes in the ground plane entrance holes in the antenna patch, and (b) damages on the fully textile antennas. [149].

Measured return loss of the rigid antennas is shown in Figure 6.67. The results before and after the test are shown with solid and dashed traces, respectively. Antennas R1 and R2 are shifted from the operational frequency band. Antenna R1 resonance is shifted 98 MHz down due to the ripped ground plane. Antenna R2 has 26 MHz shifted up due to the radiating element partial detachment.


Figure 6.67 Measured return loss of the rigid antennas [149].

The antenna R3 has similar behavior to R2. The resonance is shifted up for 130 MHz due to the radiating element partial detachment. Moreover, two pellets have penetrated the sensitive part of the radiating element where current density is high and has a large effect on the antenna resonance frequencies. All tested rigid antennas showed severe performance degradation due to the structural damages tuning the antenna out of the original operational band.
It was expected that the S-band antenna would be the most sensitive for splinter effect. It was shot with the 2.5-mm pellets four times to maximize the effect. Figure 6.68 shows the antenna after the test. It is seen that most of the pellets have penetrated the antenna, as could be expected based on the material test results. However, some of the pellets are caught by the thin substrate.


Figure 6.68 ISM antenna after the test [149].

The measured return loss before and after the test is shown in Figure 6.69. Despite the physically damaged antenna, the resonance frequency shows only a fractional change, and the return loss remains excellent. The antenna remains operational at the ISM frequency band. The fact that the conductive fabric does not peel as significantly as a solid copper layer makes it electrically more robust against splinter effect. Moreover, the antenna is designed such that there are naturally some air gaps within the structure, and therefore, the disruptive air gap effect that was seen with copper tape antennas is not as significant.


Figure 6.69 Measured return loss of the ISM antenna [149].

6.11 Conclusions
With a variety of promising approaches and the involvement of leading research groups, the wearable/textile antennas will emerge and replace conventional rigid antennas in different applications. Current research on textile antennas and the knowledge of conventional microstrip antennas will provide a solid foundation for the improved antenna designs based on the technologies highlighted here. In addition to the development of the recently set technologies, new solutions are likely to emerge.
One new technology could be the so-called system-on-fabric (SoF), where conventional printed circuit boards (PCB) are replaced by textile-like materials, allowing further system-level integration. With SoF integrated circuits (IC) and multichip modules (MCM) can be directly attached onto textile or even biomaterials. This allows new methods for designing intelligent textiles or 'spare parts' for vital organs in the human body.
There is still an enormous amount of research and development that needs to be performed in this area in order to reach an optimal performance level. The multidisciplinary field of wearable antennas combines the finest form of electromagnetics, materials sciences, electronics circuit design and miniaturization, and bioelectronics. The self-organizing materials may give new insight for wearable antenna development. This area will continue to benefit from progress in numerical methods and computing power as well as any decrease in computing cost.
Acknowledgments
The authors would like to thank Dr. Fan Yang, Mr. Jaehoon Kim, Mr. Majid Manteghi from University of California, Los Angeles Antenna Lab., and Ms. Heli Hurme and Ms. Marijke Schaffrath from Tampere University of Technology, Insitute of Electronics; the National Technology Agency of Finland, GETA Graduate School in Electronics, Telecommunications and Automation, Nokia Foundation; and Jenny Antti Wihurin for supporting this project. In addition, we would like to thank Peter de Maagt and Rolv Midthassel from ESA/ESTEC, and Juha Lilja and Tero Kaija from Patria for fruitful cooperation during Textile Antennas and Cospas-Sarsat Antennas projects and allowing us to use their photos.
References
[1] Marculescu, D., R. Marculescu, S. Park, and S. Jayaraman, "Ready to Ware," IEEE Spectrum, October 2003, pp. 28-32.
[2] Rantanen, J., N. Alfthan, J. Impio, T. Karinsalo, M. Malmivaara, R. Matala, M. Mäkinen, A. Reho, P. Talvenmaa, M. Tasanen, and J. Vanhala, "Smart Clothing for the Arctic Environment," IEEE 4th International Symposium on Wearable Computers, 2000, pp. 15-23.
[3] Kukkonen, K., T. Vuorela, J. Rantanen, O. Ryynanen, A. Siffi, and J. Vanhala, "The Design and Implementation of Electrically Heated Clothing," IEEE 5th International Symposium on Wearable Computers, 2001, pp. 180-181.
[4] Rantanen, J., T. Vuorela, K. Kukkonen, O. Ryynanen, A. Siili, and J. Vanhala, "Improving Thermal Comfort with Smart Clothing," IEEE International Conference on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics, Vol. 2, 2001, pp. 795 - 800.
[5] "Textile Antenna Promises Futuristic Communications," http://www.esa.int/esaCP/SEMQKBKIWZF_index_1.html, cited November 21, 2011
[6] "Wearable Antennas Making a Splash," http://telecom.esa.int/telecom/www/object/index.cfm?fobjectid=31339 , cited November 21. 2011.
[7] Salonen, P., et al., "A Small Planar Inverted-F Antenna for Wearable Applications," The Third International Symposium on Wearable Computers, 1999, pp. 95-100.
[8] Massey, P. J., "Mobile Phone Fabric Antennas Integrated Within Clothing," Eleventh International Conference on Antennas and Propagation, 2001. on (IEE Conf. Publ. No. 480), Vol. 1, 2001, pp. 344-347.
[9] Massey, P. J., "GSM Fabric Antenna for Mobile Phones Integrated Within Clothing," Antennas and Propagation Society International Symposium, 2001. IEEE, Vol. 3. 2001, pp. 452-455.
[10] Salonen, P., and L. Hurme, "A Novel Fabric WLAN Antenna for Wearable Applications," Antennas and Propagation Society International Symposium, 2003. IEEE, Vol. 2, 2003, pp. 700-703.
[11] Pontoppidan, K., and H. H. Viskum, "Electrical Properties of Triaxially Woven Fabrics for Reflector Antennas," Antennas and Propagation Society International Symposium, 2003. IEEE, Vol. 2, 2003, pp. 774-777.
[12] Senbokuya, Y., and H. Tsunoda, "Study on Radiation Characteristics of a Flexible Patch Antenna [satellite antenna]," Antennas and Propagation Society International Symposium, 2003. IEEE, Vol. 2, 2003, pp. 397-400.
[13] Seager, R. D., et al., "Towards a Compact Low Frequency Woven Antenna," Antennas and Propagation Society International Symposium, 2009. APSURSI '09. IEEE, 2009, pp. 1-4.
[14] Rogier, H., et al., "Off-body Communication for Protective Clothing," Sixth International Workshop on Wearable and Implantable Body Sensor Networks, 2009. BSN 2009, pp. 301-304.
[15] Hertleer, C., et al., "A Textile Antenna for Off-Body Communication Integrated Into Protective Clothing for Firefighters," IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 57, 2009, pp. 919-925.
[16] Vallozzi, L., et al., "Design of a Protective Garment GPS Antenna," Microwave and Optical Technology Letters, Vol. 51, 2009, pp. 1504-1508.
[17] Vallozzi, L., et al., "A Textile Patch Antenna with Dual Polarization for Rescue Workers' Garments," Antennas and Propagation, 2009. EuCAP 2009. 3rd European Conference on, 2009, pp. 1018-1021.
[18] Vallozzi, L., et al., "Wearable Textile GPS Antenna for Integration in Protective Garments," Proceedings of the Fourth European Conference on Antennas and Propagation (EuCAP), 2010, pp. 1-4.
[19] Locher, I., et al., "Design and Characterization of Purely Textile Patch Antennas," IEEE Transactions on Advanced Packaging, Vol. 29, 2006, pp. 777-788.
[20] Carter, J., et al., "Inexpensive Fabric Antenna for Off-body Wireless Sensor Communication," Antennas and Propagation Society International Symposium (APSURSI), 2010 IEEE, 2010, pp. 1-4.
[21] Ha, S., et al., "Compact Textile Patch Antenna for Wearable Fabric Applications," Microwave Conference Proceedings (APMC), 2010 Asia-Pacific, 2010, pp. 2256-2259.
[22] Senbokuya, Y., and H. Tsunoda, "A study on the circular patch antennas using conductive non-woven fiber fabrics," Antennas and Propagation Society International Symposium, IEEE, 2002, Vol. 1, pp. 782-784.
[23] Sankaralingam, S., and B. Gupta, "A Circular Disk Microstrip WLAN Antenna for Wearable Applications," India Conference (INDICON), 2009 Annual IEEE, 2009, pp. 1-4.
[24] Sankaralingam, S., and B. Gupta, "A Textile Antenna for WLAN Applications," International Conference on Emerging Trends in Electronic and Photonic Devices & Systems, ELECTRO '09, 2009, pp. 391-394.
[25] Kennedy, T. F., et al., "Body-Worn E-Textile Antennas: The Good, the Low-Mass, and the Conformal," IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 57, 2009, pp. 910-918.
[26] Depret, D., et al., "Flexible-substrate Low-cost Construction of a Coplanar-waveguide Aperture-coupled Microstrip Patch Antenna," Microwave and Optical Technology Letters, Vol. 49, 2007, pp. 1071-1074.
[27] Hertleer, C., et al., "Aperture-Coupled Patch Antenna for Integration Into Wearable Textile Systems," Antennas and Wireless Propagation Letters, IEEE, Vol. 6, 2007, pp. 392-395.
[28] Cibin, C., et al., "A flexible wearable antenna," Antennas and Propagation Society International Symposium, 2004. IEEE, Vol. 4, 2004, pp. 3589-3592.
[29] Cibin, C., et al., "Modified E-shaped PIFA antenna for wearable systems," URSl lntemational Symposium on Electromagnetic Theory, Pisa, Italy, 2004.
[30] Soh, P. J., et al., "Characterization of a simple broadband textile planar inverted-F antenna (PIFA) for on body communications," ICECom, 2010 Conference Proceedings, 2010, pp. 1-4.
[31] Soh, P. J., et al., "Design of a Broadband All-Textile Slotted PIFA," IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. PP, 2011, pp. 1-1.
[32] Kellomaki, T., et al., "Wearable antennas for FM reception," First European Conference on Antennas and Propagation, EuCAP 2006, 2006, pp. 1-6.
[33] Roh, J-S., et al., "Embroidered Wearable Multiresonant Folded Dipole Antenna for FM Reception," Antennas and Wireless Propagation Letters, IEEE, Vol. 9, 2010, pp. 803-806.
[34] Maleszka, T., and P. Kabacik, "Bandwidth Properties of Embroidered Loop Antenna for Wearable Applications," Wireless Technology Conference (EuWIT), 2010 European, 2010, pp. 89-92.
[35] Dobbins, J. A., et al., "Fabric Equiangular Spiral Antenna," Antennas and Propagation Society International Symposium 2006, IEEE, 2006, pp. 2113-2116.
[36] Visser, H. J., and A. C. F. Reniers, "Textile Antennas, a Practical Approach," The Second European Conference on Antennas and Propagation, EuCAP 2007, 2007, pp. 1-8.
[37] Mashhadi, S. H. H., et al., "Investigation of a Wearable Broadband Textile Dielectric Resonator Antenna," Antennas and Propagation Conference (LAPC), 2010 Loughborough, 2010, pp. 349-352.
[38] Lee, E. C., et al., "Design of a Flexible Minkowski-like Pre-fractal (MLPF) Antenna with Different Ground Planes for VHF LMR," 2011 International Workshop on Antenna Technology (iWAT), 2011, pp. 298-301.
[39] Lee, E. C., et al., "Design and Fabrication of a Flexible Minkowski Fractal Antenna for VHF Applications," Proceedings of the 5th European Conference on Antennas and Propagation (EUCAP), 2011, pp. 521-524.
[40] Soh, P. J., et al., "Wearable Dual-band Sierpinski Fractal PIFA Using Conductive Fabric," Electronics Letters, Vol. 47, 2011, pp. 365-367.
[41] Tronquo, A., et al., "Robust Planar Textile Antenna for Wireless Body LANs Operating in 2.45 GHz ISM Band," Electronics Letters, Vol. 42, 2006, pp. 142-143.
[42] Sankaralingam, S., et al., "Annular Ring Microstrip Antenna for Body-worn Applications," India Conference (INDICON), 2010 Annual IEEE, 2010, pp. 1-4.
[43] Salonen, P., et al., "Dual-band Wearable Textile Antenna," Antennas and Propagation Society International Symposium, IEEE, 2004, Vol. 1, pp. 463-466.
[44] Salonen, P., et al., "Dual-band E-shaped Patch Wearable Textile Antenna," Antennas and Propagation Society International Symposium, IEEE, 2005, Vol. 1A, pp. 466-469.
[45] Shaozhen, Z., et al., "Dual Band Body Worn Antenna," Antennas and Propagation Conference, 2007, LAPC 2007, Loughborough, United Kingdom, 2007, pp. 137-140.
[46] Klemm, M., et al., "A Novel Circularly Polarized Textile Antenna for Wearable Applications," 7th European Conference on Wireless Technology, 2004, 2004, pp. 285-288.
[47] Klemm, M., et al., "A Novel Circularly Polarized Textile Antenna for Wearable Applications," 34th European Microwave Conference, 2004, pp. 137-140.
[48] Kaivanto, E., et al., "Wearable Circularly Polarised Antenna for Personal Satellite Communication and Navigation," IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. PP, 2011, pp. 1-1.
[49] Sanz-Izquierdo, B., et al., "Textile Integrated Waveguide Slot Antenna," Antennas and Propagation Society International Symposium (APSURSI), 2010 IEEE, 2010, pp. 1-4.
[50] Salonen, P., et al., "WEBGA - Wearable Electromagnetic Band-gap Antenna," Antennas and Propagation Society International Symposium, 2004. IEEE, 2004, pp. 451-454.
[51] Shaozhen, Z., and R. Langley, "Personal Antennas for Mobile Networks," International Workshop on Antenna Technology: Small and Smart Antennas Metamaterials and Applications, IWAT '07, 2007, pp. 45-48.
[52] Zhu, S., and R. Langley, "Dual-band Wearable Antennas Over EBG Substrate," Electronics Letters, Vol. 43, 2007, pp. 141-142.
[53] Langley, R., and Z. Shaozhen, "Dual Band Wearable Antenna," Antennas and Propagation Conference, LAPC 2008, Loughborough, United Kingdom, pp. 14-17.
[54] Qiang, B., and R. Langley, "Wearable EBG Antenna Bending and Crumpling," Antennas and Propagation Conference, 2009. LAPC 2009, Loughborough, United Kingdom, 2009, pp. 201-204.
[55] Qiang, B., and R. Langley, "Wearable EBG Antenna Bending," 3rd European Conference on Antennas and Propagation, EuCAP 2009, 2009, pp. 182-185.
[56] Shaozhen, Z., and R. Langley, "Dual-Band Wearable Textile Antenna on an EBG Substrate," IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 57, 2009, pp. 926-935.
[57] Chahat, N., et al., "Improvement of the On-body Performance of a Dual-band Textile Antenna Using an EBG Structure," Antennas and Propagation Conference (LAPC), Loughborough, United Kingdom, 2010, pp. 465-468.
[58] Vicente, J., and A. A. Moreira, "Electro-textile Printed Slot Antenna Over Finite EBG Structure," 2010 International Workshop on Antenna Technology (iWAT), 2010, pp. 1-4.
[59] Gallego-Gallego, I., et al., "On the Use of Soft Surfaces to Reduce Back Radiation in Textile Microstrip Patch Antennas," Proceedings of the 5th European Conference on Antennas and Propagation (EUCAP), 2011, pp. 534-537.
[60] Klemm, M., and G. Troster, "Textile UWB Antenna for On-body Communications," First European Conference on Antennas and Propagation, EuCAP 2006, 2006, pp. 1-4.
[61] Ma, L., et al., "A Notched Hand Wearable Ultra Wideband W Printed Monopole Antenna for Sporting Activities," Antennas and Propagation Conference(LAPC 2008), Loughborough, United Kingdom, 2008, pp. 397-400.
[62] Shanshan, G., et al., "Wideband Antenna for Ultra-wideband (UWB) Body-centric Wireless Communications," 2010 IEEE International Conference on Ultra-Wideband (ICUWB), 2010, pp. 1-4.
[63] Dey, S., et al., "Design and Performance Analysis of UWB Circular Disc Monopole Textile Antenna and Bending Consequences," Proceedings of the 5th European Conference on Antennas and Propagation (EUCAP), 2011, pp. 1129-1133.
[64] Osman, M. A. R., et al., "Design, Implementation and Performance of Ultra-wideband Textile Antenna," Progress in Electromagnetics Research B, Vol. 27, 2011, pp. 307-325.
[65] Osman, M. A. R., et al., "Design and Analysis UWB Wearable Textile Antenna," Proceedings of the 5th European Conference on Antennas and Propagation (EUCAP), 2011, pp. 530-533.
[66] Galehdar, A., and D. V. Thiel, "Flexible, Light-weight Antenna at 2.4GHz for Athlete Clothing," Antennas and Propagation Society International Symposium, 2007 IEEE, 2007, pp. 4160-4163.
[67] Januszkiewicz, L., et al., "Textile Body-worn Exponentially Tapered Vee Antenna," 17th International Conference on Microwaves, Radar and Wireless Communications, MIKON 2008, 2008, pp. 1-4.
[68] Januszkiewicz, L., "The Analysis of Textile Antenna Array Radiation Pattern," 18th International Conference on Microwave Radar and Wireless Communications (MIKON), 2010, pp. 1-4.
[69] Sankaralingam, S., and B. Gupta, "A Bluetooth Antenna for On-body Communications," Proceedings of the Fourth European Conference on Antennas and Propagation (EuCAP), 2010, pp. 1-4.
[70] Yeonho, K., et al., "Wearable UHF RFID Tag Antenna Design Using Flexible Electrothread and Textile," Antennas and Propagation Society International Symposium, 2007 IEEE, 2007, pp. 5487-5490.
[71] Jae Han, C., et al., "Various Wearable Embroidery RFID Tag Antenna Using Electrothread," Antennas and Propagation Society International Symposium, AP-S 2008. IEEE, 2008, pp. 1-4.
[72] Merilampi, S., et al., "Printed Passive UHF RFID Tags as Wearable Strain Sensors," 3rd International Symposium on Applied Sciences in Biomedical and Communication Technologies (ISABEL), 2010, pp. 1-5.
[73] Manzari, S., et al., "Reading Range of Wearable Textile RFID Tags in Real Configurations," Proceedings of the 5th European Conference on Antennas and Propagation (EUCAP), 2011, pp. 433-436.
[74] Abramo, R., et al., "Fabrication and Testing of the COMWIN Vest Antenna," MILCOM 2000. 21st Century Military Communications Conference Proceedings, Vol. 2, 2000, pp. 595-598.
[75] Lebaric, J. E., et al., "Ultra-wideband, Zero Visual Signature RF Vest Antenna for Manportable Radios," Military Communications Conference, MILCOM 2001, Communications for Network-Centric Operations: Creating the Information Force, IEEE, 2001, pp. 1291-1294.
[76] Kohls, E. C., et al., "A Multi-band Body-worn Antenna Vest," Antennas and Propagation Society International Symposium, 2004. IEEE, 2004, pp. 447-450.
[77] Lebaric, J., and T. Ah-Tuan, "Ultra-wideband conformal helmet antenna," Microwave Conference, 2000 Asia-Pacific, 2000, pp. 1477-1481.
[78] Lebaric, J., and T. Ah-Tuan, "Ultra-wideband RF Helmet Antenna," 21st Century Military Communications Conference Proceedings MILCOM 2000, Vol. 2, 2000, pp. 591-594.
[79] Sanz-Izquierdo, B., and J. C. Batchelor, "A Dual Band Belt Antenna," International Workshop on Antenna Technology: Small Antennas and Novel Metamaterials, iWAT 2008, 2008, pp. 374-377.
[80] Sanz-Izquierdo, B., et al., "UWB Wearable Button Antenna," First European Conference on Antennas and Propagation, EuCAP 2006, 2006, pp. 1-4.
[81] Sanz-Izquierdo, B., et al., "Covert Dual-band Wearable Button Antenna," Electronics Letters, Vol. 42, 2006, pp. 668-670.
[82] Sanz-Izquierdo, B., et al., "Dual Band Button Antennas for Wearable Applications," IEEE International Workshop on Antenna Technology Small Antennas and Novel Metamaterials, 2006, pp. 132-135.
[83] Sanz-Izquierdo, B., et al., "Compact Antenna for WLAN On-body Applications 36th European Microwave Conference, 2006, pp. 815-818.
[84] Floch, J. M., et al., "Investigation of Radiating Jeans-button Antennas," Microwave and Optical Technology Letters, Vol. 51, 2009, pp. 2820-2824.
[85] Sanz-Izquierdo, B., et al., "Button Antenna on Textiles for Wireless Local Area Network On-body Applications," Microwaves, Antennas & Propagation, IET, Vol. 4, 2010, pp. 1980-1987.
[86] Salman, L. K. H., and L. Talbi, "G-shaped Wearable Cuff Button Antenna for 2.45 GHZ ISM Band Applications," 14th International Symposium on Antenna Technology and Applied Electromagnetics & the American Electromagnetics Conference (ANTEMAMEREM), 2010, pp. 1-4.
[87] Salman, L. K. H, and L. Talbi, "Dual Band G-shape Wearable Cuff Button Antenna for ISM Bands Applications," Antennas and Propagation Society International Symposium (APSURSI), 2010 IEEE, 2010, pp. 1-4.
[88] Declercq, F., and H. Rogier, "Active Integrated Wearable Textile Antenna With Optimized Noise Characteristics," IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 58, 2010, pp. 3050-3054.
[89] Dierck, A., et al., "Review of Active Textile Antenna Co-design and Optimization Strategies," IEEE International Conference on RFID-Technologies and Applications (RFID-TA), 2011, pp. 194-201.
[90] Ha, S., and C. Jung, "Reconfigurable Beam Steering Using a Microstrip Patch Antenna with a U-slot for Wearable Fabric Applications," Antennas and Wireless Propagation Letters, IEEE, Vol. PP, 2011, pp. 1-1.
[91] Sangjun, H., and J. Chang Won, "Single Patch Beam Steering Antenna with U-slot for Wearable Fabric Applications," 2011 IEEE International Symposium on Antennas and Propagation (APSURSI), 2011, pp. 1560-1562
[92] Ouyang, Y., and W. J. Chappell, "Diversity Characterization of Body-worn Textile Antenna System at 2.4 GHz," Antennas and Propagation Society International Symposium, IEEE, 2006, pp. 2117-2120.
[93] Van Torre, P., et al., "Diversity Textile Antenna Systems for Firefighters," Proceedings of the Fourth European Conference on Antennas and Propagation (EuCAP), 2010, pp. 1-5.
[94] Ouyang, Y., and W. Chappell, "Distributed Body-worn Transceiver System with the Use of Electro-textile Antennas," IEEE/MTT-S International Microwave Symposium, 2007, pp. 1229-1232.
[95] Bellon, J. S., et al., "Textile MIMO Antenna for Wireless Body Area Networks," Proceedings of the 5th European Conference on Antennas and Propagation (EUCAP), 2011, pp. 428-432.
[96] Van Torre, P., et al., "Indoor Off-Body Wireless MIMO Communication With Dual Polarized Textile Antennas," IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 59, 2011, pp. 631-642.
[97] Van Torre, P., et al., "Reliable MIMO Communication Between Firefighters Equipped with Wearable Antennas and a Base Station Using Space-time Codes," Proceedings of the 5th European Conference on Antennas and Propagation (EUCAP), 2011, pp. 2690-2694.
[98] Hurme, H., and P. Salonen, "On the Study of Antenna Placement in a Smart Clothing," Proceedings of Modelling and Simulation, 2003, pp. 1-6.
[99] Salonen, P., and Y. Rahmat-Samii, "Textile Antennas: Effects of Antenna Bending on Input Matching and Impedance Bandwidth," First European Conference on Antennas and Propagation, EuCAP 2006, 2006.
[100] Salonen, P., and Y. Rahmat-Samii, "Textile Antennas: Effects of Antenna Bending on Input Matching and Impedance Bandwidth," Aerospace and Electronic Systems Magazine, IEEE, Vol. 22, 2007, pp. 10-14.
[101] Salonen, P., et al., "Textile Antennas: Effect of Antenna Bending on Radiation Pattern and Efficiency," Antennas and Propagation Society International Symposium, AP-S 2008, IEEE, 2008.
[102] Bai, Q., and R. J. Langley, "Effect of Bending and Crumpling on Textile Antennas," 2nd IET Seminar on Antennas and Propagation for Body-Centric Wireless Communications, 2009, pp. 1-4.
[103] Bai, Q., and R. Langley, "Textile Antenna Bending and Crumpling," Proceedings of the Fourth European Conference on Antennas and Propagation (EuCAP), 2010, pp. 1-4.
[104] Bai, Q., and R. Langley, "Crumpling of PIFA Textile Antenna," IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. PP, 2011, pp. 1-1.
[105] Sankaralingam, S., and B. Gupta, "Development of Textile Antennas for Body Wearable Applications and Investigations on Their Performance Under Bent Conditions," Progress in Electromagnetics Research B, Vol. 22, 2010, pp. 53-71.
[106] Amaro, N., et al., "Bending Effects on a Textile Microstrip Antenna," IEEE International Symposium on Antennas and Propagation (APSURSI), 2011, pp. 282-285.
[107] Salonen, P., et al., "Effect of Conductive Material on Wearable Antenna Performance: A Case Study of WLAN Antennas," Antennas and Propagation Society International Symposium, IEEE, 2004, pp. 455-458.
[108] Salonen, P., et al., "Effect of Textile Materials on Wearable Antenna Performance: A Case Study of GPS Antennas," Antennas and Propagation Society International Symposium,IEEE, 2004, pp. 459-462.
[109] Ouyang, Y., et al., "Effect of Fabric Patterns on Electrotextile Patch Antennas," Antennas and Propagation Society International Symposium, 2005 IEEE, 2005, pp. 246-249.
[110] Tronquo, A., et al., "Applying Textile Materials for the Design of Antennas for Wireless Body Area Networks," First European Conference on Antennas and Propagation, EuCAP 2006, 2006, pp. 1-5.
[111] Hertleer, C., et al., "A Textile Antenna Based on High-Performance Fabrics," The Second European Conference on Antennas and Propagation, EuCAP 2007, pp. 1-5.
[112] Santas, J. G., et al., "Textile Antennas for On-Body Communications: Techniques and Properties," Second European Conference on Antennas and Propagation, EuCAP 2007, pp. 1-4.
[113] Yilmaz, E., et al., "Performance Analysis of Wearable Microstrip Antennas with Low-conductivity Materials," Antennas and Propagation Society International Symposium, AP-S 2008, IEEE, 2008, pp. 1-4.
[114] Maleszka, T., et al., "Meshed Ground Plane Structures for Textile Antennas," 3rd European Conference on Antennas and Propagation, EuCAP 2009, pp. 713-717.
[115] Du, C-Z., et al., "Textile Microstrip Array Antenna on Three-dimensional Orthogonal Woven Composite," Proceedings of the Fourth European Conference on Antennas and Propagation (EuCAP), 2010, pp. 1-2.
[116] Du, C-Z., et al., "Four Element Textile Array Antenna on Three Dimensional Orthogonal Woven Composites," Microwave and Optical Technology Letters, Vol. 52, 2010, pp. 2487-2488.
[117] Nurul, H. M. R., et al., "Evaluation of a Wearable Hybrid Textile Antenna," Loughborough Antennas and Propagation Conference (LAPC), 2010, pp. 337-340.
[118] Heikkinen, J. J., et al., "Flexible Fabric-base Patch Antenna with Protective Coating," IEEE Antennas and Propagation Society International Symposium, 2007, pp. 4168-4171.
[119] Shaw, R., et al., "The Radio Frequency Characterization of Conductive Textile Materials: A Preliminary Step for Accurate Antenna Modeling," Antennas and Propagation Society International Symposium, 2005 IEEE, 2005, pp. 431-434.
[120] Declercq, F., et al., "Permittivity and Loss Tangent Characterization for Garment Antennas Based on a New Matrix-Pencil Two-Line Method," IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 56, 2008, pp. 2548-2554.
[121] Ouyang, Y., and W. J. Chappell, "High Frequency Properties of Electro-Textiles for Wearable Antenna Applications," IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 56, 2008, pp. 381-389.
[122] Declercq, F., and H. Rogier, "Characterization of Electromagnetic Properties of Textile Materials for the Use in Wearable Antennas," IEEE Antennas and Propagation Society International Symposium, 2009.
[123] Lilja, J., P. Salonen, and P. de Maagt, "Environmental Characterization of Industrial Fabric for SoftWearAntenna," Antennas and Propagation Society International Symposium, APSURSI '09, IEEE, 2009, pp. 1-4.
[124] Sankaralingam, S., and B. Gupta, "Determination of Dielectric Constant of Fabric Materials and Their Use as Substrates for Design and Development of Antennas for Wearable Applications," IEEE Transactions on Instrumentation and Measurement, Vol. 59, 2010, pp. 3122-3130.
[125] Soh, P. J., et al., "Wearable Textile Antennas' Efficiency Characterization Using a Reverberation Chamber," IEEE International Symposium on Antennas and Propagation (APSURSI), 2011, pp. 810-813.
[126] Salonen, P., and H. Hurme, "Modeling of a Fabric GPS Antenna for Smart Clothing," Proceedings of the IASTED International Conference; Modeling and Simulation, M. H. Hamza (ed.), Palm Springs, CA, February 2003, pp. 18-23.
[127] Salonen, P., and H. Hurme, "A Novel Fabric WLAN Antenna for Wearable Applications," 2003 IEEE Antennas and Propagation Society International Symposium, Columbus, OH, Vol. 2, 2003, pp. 700-703.
[128] Tanaka, M., and J-H. Jang, "Wearable Microstrip Antenna," 2003 IEEE Antennas and Propagation Society International Symposium, Columbus, OH, Vol. 2, 2003, pp. 704-707.
[129] Wong, T. C. P., B. Chambers, A. P. Anderson, and P. V. Wright, "Fabrication and Evaluation of Conducting Polymer Composite as Radar Absorbers," IEEE 8th International Conference on Antennas and Propagation (ICAP 1993), Vol. 2, 1993, pp. 934-937.
[130] Wong, T. C. P., B. Chambers, A. P. Anderson, and P. V. Wright, "Characterization of Conducting Polymer-Loaded Composite Materials at Oblique Incidence and Their Application in Radar Absorbers," IEEE 9th International Conference on Antennas and Propagation (ICAP 1995), Vol. 2, No. 407, 1995, pp. 441-444.
[131] Callister, W. D., Jr., Materials Science and Engineering, An Introduction, 6th Edition, Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons, 2003.
[132] Delinova 200 of 1110 dtex DuPont's Cordura®, Data sheet, Delcotex, Germany, 2003.
[133] Ingalls, M., and D. Smith, "Microstrip Antennas for GPS Applications," IEEE Position Location and Navigation Symposium, 2002, pp. 20-27.
[134] Special Issue on Metamaterials, IEEE Trans. Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 51, No. 10, October 2003.
[135] IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory and Techniques, Vol. 47, No. 11, November 1999.
[136] Proc. 24th ESTEC Antenna Workshop Innovative Periodic Antennas: Photonic Bandgap, Fractal and Frequency Selective Structures, Noordwijk, The Netherlands, May-June 2001.
[137] Gonzalo, R., P. de Maagt, and M. Sorolla, "Enhanced Patch-Antenna Performance by Suppressing Surface Waves Using Photonic-Bandgap Substrates," IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory and Techniques, Vol. 47, No. 11, November 1999, pp. 2131-2138.
[138] Yang, F., and Y. Rahmat-Samii, "Reflection Phase Characterization of an Electromagnetic Band-Gap (EBG) Surface," IEEE Antennas and Propagation Symposium, Vol. 3, 2002, pp. 744 - 747.
[139] Yang, F., and Y. Rahmat-Samii, "Reflection Phase Characterizations of the EBG Ground Plane for Low Profile Wire Antenna Applications," IEEE Trans. Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 51, No. 10, October 2003, pp. 2691-2703.
[140] de Maagt, P., R. Gonzalo, Y. C. Vardaxoglou, and J-M. Baracco, "Electromagnetic Bandgap Components and (Sub)Millimeter Wave Applications," IEEE Trans. Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 51, No. 10, October 2003, pp. 2667-2677.
[141] Jensen, M. A., and Y. Rahmat-Samii, "EM Interaction of Handset Antennas and a Human in Personal Communications," Proc. IEEE, Vol. 83, 1995, pp. 7-17.
[142] Iskander, M. E., Y. Zhengqing, and R. Quintero-Illera, "Polarization and Human Body Effects on the Microwave Absorption in a Human Head Exposed to Radiation from Handheld Devices," IEEE Trans. MTT, Vol. 48., No. 10, November 2000, pp. 1979-1987.
[143] Dimbylow, P. J., and O. P. Gandhi, "Finite-Difference Time-Domain Calculations of SAR in a Realistic Heterogeneous Model of the Head for Plane Wave Exposure from 600 MHz to 3 GHz," Phys. Med. Biol., No. 36, August 1991, pp. 1075-1089.
[144] Rahmat-Samii, Y., K.W. Kim, M. Jensen, K. Fujimoto, and O. Edvardson, "Antennas and Humans in Personal Communications," In Fujimoto, J.R. James, editors, Mobile Antenna Systems Handbook, Second Edition, J. R. James (eds.), Norwood, MA: Artech House, 2000.
[145] http://www.fcc.gov/fcc-bin/dielec.sh
[146] Kaija, T., J. Lilja, and P. Salonen, "Exposing Textile Antennas for Harsh Environment," IEEE MILCOM 2010, 2010.
[147] Lilja, J., and P. Salonen, "Textile Material Characterization for Softwear Antennas," MILCOM:09, Boston, October 18-21, 2009.
[148] Jiang, J. H., and D. L. Wu, "Ice and Water Permittivities for Millimeter and Sub-Millimeter Remote Sensing Applications," Atmospheric Science Letters, Vol. 5, November 2004, pp. 146-151.
[149] Kaija, T., J. Lilja, and P. Salonen, "Textile Antennas: Shotgun Proven Performance," MILCOM:11, Baltimore, MD, November 8-10, 2011.










CHAPTER 7
Body-Sensor Networks for Space and Military Applications

Rainee N. Simons
7.1 Introduction
The robotic and human space exploration program at NASA seeks to develop implantable wireless sensors to monitor the physiological parameters of humans during space flights [1]. This focus is rather unique when compared to efforts by other investigators, which have been mainly in the area of electromagnetic-wave interaction with biological systems, hyperthermia treatment of cancer, RF/microwave applications in medical treatment, and biological effects [2-6]. Conventional sensors that are used in biomedical implants require powering through batteries and lead wires. The disadvantage of this approach is that it restricts mobility, requires shielding from moisture, has a potential for malfunctioning, and may also cause infection. This also limits the lifespan of the sensor.
This chapter presents an overview of a typical biomedical RF telemetry system. In addition, the design of an antenna for contactless powering and RF telemetry is discussed. The contactless powering and RF telemetry are for powering and data acquisition from the implantable bio-microelectromechanical systems (bio-MEMS) based sensor. Furthermore, applications of these sensors in military and space are presented as examples. The approach relies on active inductive coupling or magnetic induction between the implanted sensor and the printed antenna in the interrogating/ receiving handheld device. RF telemetry reception from implanted sensors has been demonstrated by several researchers in the past [7-11], and Table 7.1 summarizes the dimensions of the implanted on-chip inductor/antenna as well as the distance over which they communicated. However, the approach presented in [11] and in this chapter has the following unique features: first, the size of our inductor/antenna is significantly smaller (1 × 1 mm), resulting in smaller implant size. Second, an MMIC amplifier can be integrated with the pick-up antenna in the handheld device to enable communications across larger implant depths. When compared with conventional sensors, the sensors with telemetry have the following advantages: first, the size of the inductor/antenna is very small, which allows the device to be integrated into miniature bio-implants, such as MEMS pressure sensors. Second, it eliminates the need to implant batteries and thus reduces the possibility of infection. Third, the circuit operates only when interrogated by an external handheld device and hence minimizes power dissipation in the biological tissue, which avoids local heating and extends the lifespan of the sensor. Fourth, it eliminates feed-through wires for powering and telemetry, thus greatly enhancing mobility and reducing the risk of infection. The frequency band that is available on an unlicensed basis for body implants extends from 402 to 405 MHz and has a maximum allowable power level of 25 mW external to the body. This combination of frequency and power allows an operating range of about 2 meters.

Table 7.1 Summary of Implantable Inductor/Antenna Dimensions, Operating Frequency, Link Distance, Implant Power, and Sensor Application
In prior publications by the author, the wireless RF telemetry scheme, the notional implantable bio-MEMS sensor, the validation of the telemetry concepts using biological tissue-like phantom media, the radiation characteristics of the antenna in the implantable sensor, and the handheld unit have been reported [11-16]. In the sections that follow, a typical biosensor system and the basics of biomedical telemetry are introduced, assuming that the implant is a bio-microelectromechanical system (bio-MEMS) based capacitive pressure sensor. In addition, it is assumed that the implant uses a micro-inductor/antenna for contactless powering and RF telemetry. This RF telemetry concept can be extended to other types of sensor systems presented in Table 7.1.
7.2 Biosensor System and Basics of Biomedical RF Telemetry
A typical biosensor system consists of a miniature implanted sensor with an integrated antenna and a larger external antenna integrated into a handheld device. The implanted antenna and the external antenna transmit and receive the telemetry signal from the sensor, respectively. In addition, the implanted antenna also enables inductive or contactless powering of the biosensor.
The contactless powering and telemetry concept, including the miniature square spiral inductor/antenna circuit intended for integration with a MEMS pressure sensor, is illustrated in Figure 7.1(a). The pressure sensor is of the capacitive type and is located in the annular region of the inductor. The inductor behaves both as an inductance and an antenna, thereby allowing the sensor to receive as well as radiate out energy. In the receive mode, the inductance picks up energy and charges the MEMS pressure sensor diaphragm capacitance. In the transmit mode, the above inductance and capacitance form a parallel resonant circuit and radiate energy through the inductor, which now behaves as a planar spiral antenna. To obtain a pressure reading, a pulse emitted by the handheld device initially interrogates the sensor. At the rising and the falling edges of this pulse, a voltage is induced in the spiral inductor, thus implementing contactless powering. The waveform of this induced voltage is a decaying sine wave. These oscillations also cause the inductor to radiate energy that is picked up as a telemetry signal by the receiving antenna in the handheld device. Since the inductance of the implanted sensor circuit is fixed, the frequency of the decaying sine wave is mainly determined by the capacitance introduced by the pressure sensor. Thus, the larger the pressure difference, the larger the frequency offset between the received telemetry in the two pressure states. The implanted bio-MEMS sensor and the handheld device together form the wireless RF telemetry system, as illustrated in Figure 7.1(b).

 
Figure 7.1 Contactless powering and RF telemetry (a) concept and (b) typical application in biosensors.

7.2.1 Implantable Pressure Sensor
A typical implantable pressure sensor consists of a diaphragm suspended over a cavity micromachined from a silicon wafer and is of the capacitive type. A trilayer of silicon dioxide and silicon nitride is used to realize the diaphragm. The diaphragm moves up and down in response to mechanical pressure. Thin gold films on the diaphragm and on the lower surface of the cavity together form a parallel plate capacitor whose capacitance changes with pressure. For the above application, a sensor with capacitance change in the range of 0.3 to 4 pF is adequate. A schematic rendition of this pressure sensor is shown in Figure 7.2.


Figure 7.2 Cross sectional view of the capacitive pressure sensor.

7.2.2 Integrated Inductor/Antenna
Figure 7.3(a) shows a schematic of a miniature square spiral inductor/antenna that can be integrated on the periphery of a pressure sensor. The strip and separation, or gap widths, are indicated as W and G, respectively. The outer dimensions of the inductor are about 1 × 1 mm, and the inductor is fabricated on a good dielectric, such as a high resistivity silicon (HR-Si) wafer to reduce the attenuation of the signals. The above dimensions and substrate material are typical for an implantable sensor. An initial estimate based on the capacitance values of the pressure sensor show that an inductance, L, with a quality factor, Q, of about 150 nH and 10 respectively, are adequate for the application described above. The frequency range over which this device can operate is about 200 to 700 MHz. In a practical circuit, the presence of a parasitic lower ground plane inadvertently introduced by the capacitive pressure sensor degrades the inductance and quality factor of the inductor. This is because the image current in the aforementioned ground planes flows in a direction opposite to the current on the spiral, thereby reducing the magnetic field and thus the overall inductance [17, 18]. In contrast, it is interesting to observe that the inductance of the inductor with a serrated ring ground plane, as shown in Figure 7.3(b), is about the same as that of an inductor without a ground plane [14]. This is because the slots in the serrated ground plane act as open circuits and thus suppress the flow of image currents [17, 18].

 
Figure 7.3 Miniature implantable square spiral chip antenna on a dielectric substrate, (a) top view: square spiral conductors and, (b) bottom view: optional serrated ring ground plane.

7.2.3 External Pick-Up Antenna
The pick-up antenna in the handheld device is a printed multiturn loop antenna and is illustrated in Figure 7.4. For high sensitivity, the input impedance of the loop antenna is matched to the input impedance of a MMIC low noise amplifier (LNA) chip in the receiver. The complete handheld device, which houses the pick-up antenna as well as other signal processing circuitry, is schematically illustrated in Figure 7.5.


Figure 7.4 Printed multiturn loop antenna on a dielectric ring substrate.



Figure 7.5 Schematic illustrating the complete handheld device which houses the multiturn printed loop antenna, as well as the signal processing circuits.

7.3 Antenna Design for Body Sensors
In this section, general design guidelines for antennas integrated with body sensors are presented. These include the radiation resistance, loss resistance, and the inductance of the antenna. An equivalent circuit model is also discussed.
7.3.1 Implantable Antennas
Recently several researchers have demonstrated RF antennas for inductive powering and data communications in implantable biosensors [9, 15, 19-22]. These implantable biosensor antennas are realized in different shapes and sizes. Additionally, their design, construction, operating frequency, and intended biomedical application are different as well. To enable better understanding, the key features of these antennas are presented in Table 7.2. In spite of their differences, these antennas fall into one or two main categories, and their designs are presented in the next two sections.

Table 7.2 Summary of State-of-the-Art Antenna Features in Implantable and Inductively Powered Biosensors
*Battery powered.

7.3.1.1 Miniature Loop
Several antennas in Table 7.2 are fabricated by winding a very small diameter wire into a circular coil. In this case, the overall conductor length is usually small when compared to the operating wavelength. In such situations, the antenna can be modeled as a small circular loop with uniform current distribution as illustrated in Figure 7.6. The uniform current distribution approximation along the circumference of the loop is valid only when the circumference is less than about 0.2λ, where λ is the free-space wavelength. The results of a trade-off study between the loop radius and the frequency of operation, as parameters on the inductive power in the near field and the radiation resistance of the antenna, are presented at the end of this section in the form of numerical examples.


Figure 7.6 Small circular loop with uniform current distribution.

The magnetic field and electric field components associated with the small loop in Figure 7.6 is written as [23]


(7.1)



(7.2)



(7.3)



(7.4)



(7.5)

where k = 2π/λ, a = loop radius in meters, and I0 = current magnitude in amperes.
The complex power in watts along a radial direction away from a small loop antenna is given by [23]


(7.6)

where = is the intrinsic impedance = 376.73 ≈ 120π Ω. Observe that for small values of kr (kr << 1), the second term within the square brackets of (7.6) is dominant, which makes the power mainly inductive. This reasoning leads us to believe that the radial magnetic energy is larger than the electric energy and is successfully exploited in the design of biotelemetry systems.
Example 7.1
As a numerical example, consider an implantable biosensor with a loop antenna having a radius of 2.0 mm and operating at a frequency of 50 MHz. Assume that I0 is equal to 1A and the distance r is equal to 10 cm. Then, from (7.6), Pr = 1.9 × 10−9 + j1.65 × 10−6 W. Notice that the reactive power is greater than the real power by three orders of magnitude. Hence, magnetic coupling is invariably used for RF telemetry in biosensor systems.
The radiation resistance in ohms of the small loop antenna is given by [23]


(7.7)

where C is the circumference of the loop = 2 πa.
Example 7.2
For the loop in Example 7.1, the radiation resistance from (7.7) is 3.8 × 10−9 Ω, respectively.
If the loop has N turns, then the radiation resistance given by (7.7) is multiplied by N2. This simple feature of a loop antenna is very attractive and is quite often exploited in the design of biotelemetry systems.
Example 7.3
In the above numerical example, if the radius of the loop is doubled to be 4.0 mm and the frequency remained the same, then the inductive part of Pr and the radiation resistance are j2.65 × 10−5 W and 6.1 × 10−8 Ω, respectively. With respect to the original loop, it is observed that the near field inductive power, as well as the radiation resistance, is higher by a factor of 16.
As a third case, if the radius of the loop remained as 2.0 mm while the operating frequency is doubled to be 100 MHz, then the inductive part of Pr and the radiation resistance are j3.31 × 10−6 W and 6.1 × 10−8 Ω, respectively. Comparing this set of values with the original case it is observed that the near field inductive power is higher only by a factor 2 while the radiation resistance is higher by a factor of 16.
As a last case, if both the radius of the loop as well as the operating frequency were doubled to be 4.0 and 100 MHz, respectively, then the inductive part of Pr and the radiation resistance are j5.3 × 10−5 W, and 9.7 × 10−7 Ω, respectively. Once again by way of comparison with the original loop, the near field inductive power is higher by a factor 32 and the radiation resistance is higher by a factor of 256.
Most often we do not have the freedom to arbitrarily change the frequency of operation, which is decided by regulatory considerations. However, we are at liberty to choose the dimensions of the antenna. The above examples demonstrates that a small increase in the radius of the implanted loop can significantly enhance the near field inductive power and thus improve the signal-to-noise ratio permitting communications at a greater distance or through thicker tissue layers.
The miniature loop antenna is represented for the purpose of computer modeling by a lumped equivalent circuit model as shown in Figure 7.7. The input impedance Zin of the loop is given by [23]


(7.8)



Figure 7.7 Lumped equivalent circuit model for the circular loop antenna.

where Rr is the radiation resistance given by (7.7) in 


RL is the loss resistance of the loop conductor


b is the loop wire radius in meters


Rsis the surface resistance 


f is the frequency of operation in Hz


μ0 is 4π ×10-7 H/m


σ is the conductivity of the loop conductor, for copper σ = 5.7 × 107 S/m.


XA is the inductive reactance of the loop antenna = 2πfLA


Xi is the reactance of loop conductor = 2 πfLi


The inductive reactance XA of the loop is calculated from the inductance LA. The inductance LA is also referred to as external inductance [24]. For a circular loop of radius a and wire radius b, LA is given by [23]


(7.9)

For a square loop with sides a and wire radius b, LA is given by [23]


(7.10)

The inductive reactance Xi of the loop conductor is calculated from the inductance Li and is given by [23]


(7.11)

The inductance Li is also referred to as the internal inductance [24].
In Figure 7.7, the capacitor, Cs, that could be a combination of the distributed stray capacitance, as well as a tuning capacitance, is used to resonate the antenna and is chosen as [23]


(7.12)

At resonance the input impedance  is given by [23]


(7.13)

Example 7.4
As a numerical example, consider an implantable biosensor with a single turn loop antenna having a radius of 4.0 mm constructed from a very thin wire of radius 0.1 mm and operating at a frequency of 50 MHz. Then from (7.7) and (7.8), Rr and RL are equal to 6.077 × 10-8 Ω and 7.444 × 10-2 Ω, respectively. In addition, from (7.9) and (7.11), LA and Li are 1.894×10-8 H and 7.896 × 10-9 H, respectively. Substituting these values in (7.8), Zin turns out to be 7.444 × 10-2 + j8.431 Ω. The capacitance needed to tune the loop to resonance from (7.12) is 377.5 pF. Lastly, from (7.13) Z′in at resonance is equal to 955 Ω.
7.3.1.2 Miniature Spiral
A second type of antenna that is employed in implantable biosensors, listed in Table 7.2, consists of a printed multiturn spiral fabricated on a dielectric substrate. In general, the substrate material could be plastic, ceramic, or semiconductor like highresistivity silicon. In addition, the printed spiral can be realized in different shapes and dimensions depending on the requirements. The widely used shapes are square, hexagonal, octagonal, and circular, and are illustrated in Figure 7.8. The square spirals are the most popular because of ease of layout. In this section, three simple and accurate expressions to predict the inductance of a spiral are presented [25]. For a given shape, an inductor/antenna is completely specified by the following:


N = Number of turns


w = Turn or strip conductor width


s = Gap or spacing between the turns


dout = Outer diameter of the spiral


din = Inner diameter of the spiral


davg = Average diameter of the spiral = 0.5(dout + din)


r = Fill ratio = (dout − din)/(dout + din)


t = Turn or strip conductor thickness




Figure 7.8 On-chip multiturn spiral inductor/antenna: (a) square, (b) octagonal, (c) hexagonal, and (d) circular. The strip and slot or gap widths are denoted as w and s, respectively. The inner and outer diameters of the spiral are denoted as din, and dout, respectively.

The first expression is based on a modification of an equation presented by Wheeler in [26]. The second expression is derived from electromagnetic principles by approximating the sides of the spirals as current-strips and the third is a monomial expression derived from fitting to a large database of several thousand inductors [25]. All three expressions are accurate with typical errors of 2% to 3% and are excellent for the use in design and synthesis.
Modified Wheeler (MW) Expression [25]


(7.14)

where coefficients K1 and K2 are layout dependent and are presented in Table 7.3. It is worth pointing out, that two inductors with identical davg but different ρ will have different inductance values. The circuit with a higher r will have a smaller inductance due to destructive mutual coupling effects.

Table 7.3 Coefficients for Modified Wheeler Expression
Expression Based on Current Strip Approximation (CSA) [25]


(7.15)

where the coefficients Ci (i = 1 to 4) are layout dependent and presented in Table 7.4. The accuracy of the above expression worsens as the ratio s/w becomes large. However, in practice inductors are typically fabricated with s ≤ w. The reason for this is because the inductor will occupy a small area on the wafer. Although making s smaller increases the parasitic interwinding capacitance, it is not a concern because it is small compared to the underpass capacitance, as will be discussed later.

Table 7.4 Coefficients for Expression Based on Current Strip Approximation
Example 7.5
As a numerical example, consider an implantable biosensor integrated with a square spiral chip antenna having s = 10 μm, w = 15 μm, N = 10, din = 520 μm, dout = 1,000 μm fabricated on a high resistivity silicon substrate. The calculated values for the inductances Lmw and Lcsa from (7.14) and (7.15) are 115.1 and 113.8 nH, respectively.
Data Fitted Monomial (DFM) Expression [25]


(7.16)

where the coefficients ai (i = 1 to 5) and the term β are layout dependent and presented in Table 7.5. In addition, dout, w, davg, and s are expressed in microns and the calculated value of Ldfm is in nH as illustrated in the numerical example below.

Table 7.5 Coefficients for Data Fitted Monomial Expression
Example 7.6
For the square spiral chip antenna in the previous numerical example the inductance is calculated from (7.16) as

Notice that the calculated values of the inductance using the above three expressions are almost identical.
The miniature spiral antenna can be represented for the purpose of computer modeling by a lumped equivalent circuit model as shown in Figure 7.9. The inductance Ls can be calculated by using any of the above three expressions given by (7.14), (7.15), and (7.16). The series loss resistance RL is given by [27]


(7.17)



Figure 7.9 Lumped equivalent circuit model for the spiral antenna.

where l = 4Ndavg in m


w = turn or strip conductor width in m


t = turn or strip conductor thickness in m


δ = skin depth, which is expressed as 


ω = 2 πf


f = frequency Hz


μ0 = 4 π × 10-7 H/m


σ = conductivity of the strip conductor metal, for gold σ = 4.1 × 107 S/m.


The series loss resistance represents the energy lost due to the skin effect losses in the strip conductor. The series capacitance is mainly due to the capacitance between the spiral and the metal underpass required to connect the inner end of the spiral inductor to the external circuit and is given by [27]


(7.18)

where ε0 = 8.854 × 10-12 F/m and εr = relative permittivity of the dielectric between the spiral and the underpass, for silicon dioxide and silicon nitride the values for εr are in the ranges of 4 to 5 and 5.5 to 7.5, respectively. tdiel is the thickness of the dielectric between the spiral and the underpass. The effect of the interturn fringing capacitance is ignored since the adjacent turns are almost equipotential.
Example 7.7
As a numerical example, consider the square spiral chip antenna discussed above. Assuming that the strip conductor is gold metallization with a thickness of 1 μm and the frequency of operation is 400 MHz, the series resistance from (7.8), (7.17) is 56 Ω. In addition, if we assume that the dielectric between the spiral and the underpass is 1 μm thick and has a relative permittivity of 5.0, then from (7.8), (7.18), the series capacitance is about 100 F.
7.3.2 Antennas for External Handheld Devices
In the previous section, it was shown that in the vicinity to the implanted antenna, the inductive near field dominates. Hence, the most efficient method to receive telemetry data from the implanted sensor is through inductive or magnetic coupling. Based on this principle several researchers have demonstrated antennas for telemetry reception from implantable biosensors, [7, 12, 28, 29]. These antennas include a planar spiral, disk coil, solenoid coil, and printed multiturn loop, and in Table 7.6 their key features are summarized. These antennas can be considered as variants of the basic loop antenna. In this section, we will present the design guidelines for impedance matching a simple loop of wire or printed circuit board trace to a receiver using a tapped capacitor circuit topology that is tuned to resonate at a desired frequency.

Table 7.6 Summary of the State-of-the-Art Antennas for External Handheld Devices in RF Biotelemetry System
7.3.2.1 Loop Antenna
Typically, the loop antenna in the handheld device will have a diameter greater than the diameter of the antenna integrated with the implant. However, the antenna circumference will still be less than about 0.2λ, where λ is the free-space wavelength, and therefore the uniform current distribution approximation is still valid. Hence, the expressions for the radiation resistance, loss resistance, and the inductances given by (7.7), (7.8), (7.9) and (7.10), respectively, hold good in this case as well. A single turn loop antenna with a tapped capacitor-matching network and the equivalent circuit model are schematically presented in Figures 7.10(a) and (b), respectively. In the equivalent circuit model Rr, RL, and LA represent the radiation resistance, loss resistance, and the inductance respectively of the loop antenna. The loop antenna input impedance ZLoop is given by:


(7.19)



Figure 7.10 Loop antenna for handheld device: (a) physical representation of the loop and the tapped capacitor impedance matching network, and (b) equivalent circuit model.

where


(7.20)

The ZLoop has to be matched to the impedance of the receiver for maximum power transfer. By integrating a pair of capacitances C1 and C2 and tapping the signal, as shown in Figure 7.10, accomplish this task. The capacitances C1 and C2 form a matching network that transforms the impedance and also resonate the antenna. The admittance Yin looking into the capacitor tap is given by:


(7.21)

where


(7.22)



(7.23)

At resonance, the reciprocal of the real part of Yin gives the input impedance Zin that is expressed as


(7.24)

The above equation is solved for the capacitance C1 that is given by


(7.25)

where ω0 = 2πf0 and f0 = resonance frequency.
By setting the imaginary part of Yin at resonance to zero and solving for the capacitance C2 gives


(7.26)

The resonance frequency f0 is related to the matching network and antenna parameters through the expression


(7.27)

By substituting (7.27) in (7.24), we obtain the Zin at resonance that is given by


(7.28)

The following numerical example illustrated the application of (7.25) and (7.26) in the design of the impedance matching network for the antenna in the handheld device.
Example 7.8
As a numerical example consider a circular printed loop antenna with a mean diameter of 4 cm fabricated on a 1-oz copper clad FR-4 board material (εr = 4.8) that is about 1.6 mm thick. The width w and thickness t of the copper trace that forms the loop are 2 mm and 34 μm, respectively. The antenna operates at 300 MHz and is matched to a receiver with an input impedance of 1 k Ω.
From (7.7) and (7.8), the Rr and RL are 0.05 Ω and 0.141 Ω, respectively. Since (7.9) for the antenna inductance assumes that the loop is constructed from a wire of radius b, the copper trace of width w is transformed to a wire with an electrical equivalent radius of 0.25w [23]. Then from (7.9), LA is 94.71 nH. The capacitances C1 and C2 from (7.25) and (7.26) are 3.22 pF and 38.48 pF, respectively. Notice that the capacitance C2 >> C1.
7.4 Space, Military, and Civilian Applications
In general, there are two types of body sensors: the first are sensors that are implanted inside the body, and the second are sensors that are in close proximity to the body but are worn on the outside. The application environments for these sensors are in a space shuttle or international space station, battlefield, hospital, and home. In this section for a given environment, examples of implanted and worn sensors are presented.
7.4.1 Sensors for Space Environment
The primary motivation for the application of sensors in space is for a greater understanding of the impact of spaceflight on living systems [30]. Research subjects, such as small animal models, have to be fully untended and unrestrained for long periods to fully reflect the impact of microgravity and spaceflight on their behavior and physiology [30]. There requirements preclude the use of hardwired instrumentation and data acquisition systems and favor innovative implantable sensors with miniaturized biotelemetry systems.
7.4.1.1 Dual Channel Electrocardiogram/Temperature Biotelemeter
The biotelemeter [30] is totally implantable, is approximately 20 cc in volume, and has a transmission lifetime of 6 to 9 months. It digitally encodes data and transmits ON-OFF keyed bursts of 455 KHz RF at rates equivalent to 4096 baud. The receiver is lightweight, portable, and can acquire signals at a distance of 30 to 60 cm. This work was later extended to include a third data channel for pH monitoring [31, 32]. Recently, a wearable multiparameter ambulatory physiologic monitoring system for space and terrestrial applications has been presented [33].
7.4.1.2 Sensor Pills for Physiological Monitoring
A miniature biotelemetry unit resembling a large pill has been proposed for use in physiological monitoring of the gastrointestinal tract [34]. The proposed pill would carry sensors to provide indication of the presence of blood, bacteria, and chemicals of interest. Furthermore, it will not contain any batteries and would be inductively powered when interrogated by the handheld transceiver, as discussed in Section 7.2. The typical length and diameter of the sensor pill are about 0.5 and 2 cm, respectively. The pill can be swallowed and would pass through the gastrointestinal tract in about 24 hours.
7.4.1.3 Sensor Patch for Physiological Monitoring
A wearable sensor patch (3 × 3 cm) that will contain sensors and electronic circuits for measuring the temperature, heart rate, blood pressure, and possibly other physiological parameters has been proposed [35]. As in the previous example, the sensor patch would not carry any batteries and would be inductively powered when interrogated by the handheld device.
7.4.2 Battlefield Sensors
The purpose of battlefield sensors is to provide combat casualty care and is targeted towards soldiers and support personnel in battlefields. Astronauts, while working inside of a space station or shuttle can also wear them.
7.4.2.1 Smart Shirt Technology
The smart shirt uses optical fibers to detect bullet wounds and special sensors. It interconnects to monitor the body's vital signs including heat rate, respiration rate, electrocardiogram (EKG), body temperature, and pulse oximetry during combat conditions [36]. In addition, by plugging in a microphone into the smart shirt, voice can be recorded.
7.4.3 Sensors in Hospitals and Smart Homes
The possible reasons for using wireless sensors in hospitals and in smart homes are as follows [37]:


To help patients comply with doctor's orders, enable remote care giving by family and friends, and detect early signs of disease and prevent its progress.


To help in the diagnosis of neurological disorders, such as Parkinson's or Alzheimer's diseases. Parkinson's can so far be diagnosed only through behavioral change, principally changes in gait monitored through the use of a motion sensor.


To monitor transient or infrequent events, such as the sudden slowing of the heart rate that can lead to a fainting spell that can last less than a minute and can go unnoticed by the patient.


To serve as a warning device in the event of any symptoms of heart failure.


A variety of body sensors for monitoring the above conditions are required with the capability to communicate using wireless technology.
As a concluding remark, if these body sensors are to be networked and operate seamlessly, a personal mobile hub would be required [38]. By supporting multiple wireless protocols, some short-range and some wide area, the hub will then make available the power of the Internet to body-worn sensors.
References
[1]http://www.nasa.gov/missions/solarsystem/explore_main.html
[2]Special Issue on Electromagnetic-Wave Interactions with Biological Systems, IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory Tech., Vol. 32, No. 8, August 1984.
[3]Special Issue on Phased Arrays for Hyperthermia Treatment of Cancer, IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory Tech., Vol. 34, No. 5, May 1986.
[4]Special Issue on Medical Application and Biological Effects of RF/Microwaves (Part II), IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory Tech., Vol. 44, No. 10, October 1996.
[5] Mini-Special Issue on RF/Microwave Applications in Medicine (Part I) and Special Issue on Medical Application and Biological Effects of RF/Microwaves (Part II), IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory Tech., Vol. 48, No. 11, November 2000.
[6] Special Issue on Medical Applications and Biological Effects of RF/Microwaves (Part II), IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory Tech., Vol. 52, No. 8, August 2004.
[7]Von Arx, J. A., and K. Najafi, "On-Chip Coils with Integrated Cores for Remote Inductive Powering of Integrated Microsystems," International. Conference Solid-State Sensors and Actuators, TRANSDUCERS '97, Chicago, June 16-19, 1997, pp. 999-1002.
[8] Eggers, T., et al., "Advanced Hybrid Integrated Low-Power Telemetric Pressure Monitoring System for Biomedical Applications," Dig. 13th Annual International Conference on Microelectromechanical Systems Dig., Miyazaki, Japan, January 23-27, 2000, pp. 329-334.
[9] Ullerich, S., et al., "Micro-coils for an advanced System for Measuring Intraocular Pressure," Tech. Dig. 1st Annual International IEEE-EMBS Special Topic Conference Microtechnologies in Medicine and Biology, Lyon, France, October 12-14 2000, pp. 470-474.
[10]Mokwa, W., and U. Schnakenberg, "Micro-Transponder Systems for Medical Applications," IEEE Trans. Instrumentation and Measurement, Vol. 50, No. 6, December 2001, pp. 1551-1555.
[11]Simons, R. N., D. G. Hall, and F. A. Miranda, "RF Telemetry Systems for an Implantable Bio-MEMS Sensor," 2004 IEEE MTT-S Inter. Microwave Symposium Dig., Fort Worth, TX, Vol. 3, June 6-11, 2004, pp. 1433-1436.
[12] Simons, R. N., D. G. Hall, and F. A. Miranda, "Printed Multi-Turn Loop Antenna for RF Bio-Telemetry," 2004 IEEE Inter. Symp. Antennas & Propagation & USNC/URSI National Radio Science Meet. Dig., Monterey, CA, Vol. 2, June 20-26, 2004, pp. 1339-1342.
[13] Miranda, F. A., R. N. Simons, and D. G. Hall, "Validation of Radio Frequency Telemetry Concept in the Presence of Biological Tissue-Like Stratified Media," 2004 IEEE Inter. Symp. on Antennas and Propagation and USNC/URSI National Radio Science Meet. Dig., Monterey, CA, Vol. 2, June 20-26, 2004, pp. 1335-1338.
[14] Simons, R. N., D. G. Hall, and F. A. Miranda, "Spiral Chip Implantable Radiator and Printed Loop External Receptor for RF Telemetry in Bio-Sensor Systems," Proc. 2004 IEEE Radio and Wireless Conference (RAWCON), Atlanta, GA, September 19-22, 2004, pp. 203-206.
[15] Simons, R. N., and F. A. Miranda, "Radiation Characteristics of Miniature Silicon Square Spiral Chip Antenna for Implantable Bio-MEMS Sensors," 2005 IEEE Inter. Symp. on Antennas & Propagation & USNC/URSI National Radio Science Meet. Dig., Washington, DC, Vol. IB, July 3-8, 2005, pp. 836-839.
[16] Simons, R. N., and F. A. Miranda, Radio Frequency Telemetry System for Sensors and Actuators, U.S. Patent No. 6667725, December 23, 2003.
[17] Yue, C. P., and S. S. Wong, "On-Chip Spiral Inductors with Patterned Ground Shields for Si-Based RF IC's," IEEE Jour. Solid-State Circuits, Vol. 33, No. 5, May 1998, pp. 743-752.
[18] Chang, C. A., S-P. Tseng, J. Y. Chuang, S-S. Jiang, and J. A. Yeh, "Characterization of Spiral Inductors With Patterned Floating Structures," IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory Tech., Vol. 52, No. 5, May 2004, pp. 1375-1381.
[19] Ahmadian, M., et al., "Miniature Transmitter for Implantable Micro-Systems," Proc. of the 25th Annual Inter. Conf. of the IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society, Cancun, Mexico, Vol. 4, September 17-21, 2003, pp. 3028-3031.
[20]Mokwa, W., "Ophthalmic Implants," Proc. of the 2nd IEEE International Conference on Sensors, Toronto, Canada, Vol. 2, October 22-24, 2003, pp. 980-986.
[21]Van Schuylenbergh, K., et al., "Monitoring Orthopedic Implants Using Active Telemetry," Proc. of the 14th Annual International Conference of the IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society, Paris, France, EMBS-92, Vol. 6, October 29-November 1, 1992, pp. 2672-2673.
[22]Akin, T., et al., "A Wireless Implantable Multichannel Digital Neural Recording System for a Micromachined Sieve Electrode," IEEE Jour. Solid-State Circuits, Vol. 33, No. 1, January 1998, pp. 109-118.
[23] Balanis, C. A., Antenna Theory Analysis and Design, 2nd Edition, New York, NY: John Wiley and Sons, 1997, Chapters 5 and 9, Table 9.3.
[24]Ramo, S., J. R. Whinnery and T. V. Duzer, Fields and Waves in Communication Electronics, 3nd Edition, New York: John Wiley and Sons, 1994, pp.81.
[25] Mohan, S. S., M. D. M. Hershenson, S. P. Boyd, and T. H. Lee, "Simple Accurate Expressions for Planar Spiral Inductances," IEEE Jour. Solid-State Circuits, Vol. 34, No. 10, October 1999, pp. 1419-1424.
[26] Wheeler, H. A., "Simple Inductance Formulas for Radio Coils," Proc. IRE, Vol. 16, No. 10, October 1928, pp. 1398-1400.
[27]Hershenson, M. D. M., S. S. Mohan, S. P. Boyd, and T. H. Lee, "Optimization of Inductor Circuits via Geometric Programming," Proc. 36th Design Automation Conf., New Orleans, LA, June 1999.
[28] Hamici, Z., R. Itti, and J. Champier, "A High-Efficiency Biotelemetry System for Implanted Electronic Device," IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society 17th Annual Conference, Montreal, Canada, Vol. 2, September 20-23, 1995, pp. 1649-1650.
[29] Troyk, P. R., and M. Edgington, "Inductive Links and Drivers for Remotely-Powered Telemetry Systems," IEEE Antennas and Propagation Society International Symposium Dig., Salt Lake City, UT, Vol. 1, July 16-21, 2000, pp. 60-62.
[30] Hines, J. W., "Medical and Surgical Applications of Space Biosensor Technology," Acta Astronautica (Special Issue on Benefits of Space for Humanity), Vol. 38, Nos. 4-8, February- April 1996, pp. 261-267.
[31]Hines, J. W., et al., "Telemetric Sensors for the Space Life Sciences," Proceedings of the 18th Annual International Conference of the IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society, Amsterdam, Holland, Vol. 1, Amsterdam, Holland, October 31-November 3, 1996, pp. 30-31.
[32]Hines, J. W., et al., "Space Biosensor Systems: Implications for Technology Transfer," Proceedings of the 19th Annual International Conference of the IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society, Chicago, Vol. 2, October 30-November 2, 1997, pp. 740-743.
[33] Mundt, C. W., et al., "A Multiparameter Wearable Physiologic Monitoring System for Space and Terrestrial Applications," IEEE Trans. Information Technology in Biomedicine, Vol. 9, No. 3, September 2005, pp. 382-391.
[34] Improved Sensor Pills for Physiological Monitoring, http://www.nasatech.com/Briefs/ Feb00/NPO20652.html.
[35] Wearable Sensor Patches for Physiological Monitoring, http://www.nasatech.com/Briefs/ Feb00/NPO20651.html.
[36]Park, S., and S. Jayaraman, "Enhancing the Quality of Life Through Wearable Technology," IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Magazine, Vol. 22 No. 3, May/June 2003, pp. 41-48.
[37] Ross, P. E., "Managing Care Through the Air," IEEE Spectrum, Vol. 41, No. 12, December 2004, pp. 26-31.
[38]Husemann, D., et al., "Personal Mobile Hub," Proceedings of the 8th International Symposium on Wearable Computers (ISWC'04), Vol. 1, October 31-November 3, 2004, pp. 85-91.










CHAPTER 8
Antennas and Propagation for Telemedicine and Telecare: On-Body Systems

William G. Scanlon, Simon L. Cotton, and Noel E. Evans
This chapter examines antennas and propagation considerations for wearable telemedicine and telecare systems at frequencies above 100 MHz. The chapter first considers both traditional and emerging telemedicine and telecare applications before detailing specific antenna-body interaction and channel effects, including a discussion on antenna diversity. The chapter concludes by briefly discussing the important issues of radio frequency interference and cochannel interbody area network interference, which are both of concern in biomedical applications.
8.1 Telemedicine and Telecare Applications
Telemedicine is often rather bluntly defined as "medicine at a distance"-a service with the potential to impact favorably on the access, quality and cost of health care [1]. Wireless communication is therefore an important technology enabler for telemedicine, offering the potential for both patient mobility and ubiquity of service. In particular, radio communication has been, and will continue to be, the dominant technique for wireless telemedicine. Although the alternatives to radio have been used for niche applications, they are either limited to line-of-sight environments (e.g., diffuse IR [2]) or suffer from extremely low bandwidths (e.g., ultrasonic [3]). A good introduction and overview of wireless telemedicine can be found in [4]. The definition of telecare is wider than that of telemedicine, which involves the delivery of health and social care applications, including those where medical supervision is not required, to individuals within the home or wider community [5]. All of this is part of the wider concept of the application of information and communication technologies to health care, known as eHealth. However, the term eHealth refers to everything from medical informatics (such as databases and records) to biomedical engineering (sensors and devices), and it is clear than antennas and propagation considerations are more relevant to the latter case.
Personal telemedicine is an eHealth application that can be defined by those systems that are aimed at providing pervasive health monitoring services for individual patients on a short-range, tetherless, or a full-mobility basis. It is anticipated that, through the continuing development of personal communications technology, such as WiFi (IEEE 802.11 [6]), based wireless local area networks (WLANs) and mobile telephony (so-called 4G, e.g., LTE Advanced [7]), personal telemedicine will become a major mode of health care delivery, often referred to as m-health (mobile health). There are, of course, a number of difficulties, including patient and clinician acceptability, privacy and security, and the need for supporting infrastructure. An effective personal telemedicine system also needs comfortable, lightweight, wearable communications equipment. While the antennas and propagation aspects of telemedicine technology have similarities with other body-centric applications, transmitted power levels are generally much lower, and antenna efficiencies are reduced because of battery and packaging constraints. Furthermore, patient-worn devices should, ideally, be extremely low-cost and potentially disposable. These factors mean that the antennas and propagation aspects of wearable telemedicine systems are very important for both academic research and engineering practice.
The wider definition of telemedicine covers all uses of communication technology, including data links with diverse devices such as sensors, actuators (e.g., bladder or muscle stimulators), prostheses, and controllers/processors. Furthermore, this diversity will continue to grow as the market and technology develop in step with each other. However, patient monitoring [8] remains the most pervasive application of wireless communications in telemedicine, with an increasing need for remote vital signs monitoring in applications, such as the care of post day-surgery patients recovering at home or in emergency trauma signalling from accident sites. A commercial example of a wireless vital signs monitor is the Toumaz Sensium platform [9]. Wireless patient monitoring is sometimes referred to as medical telemetry and, while biotelemetry is similarly defined, it concerns both human and animal signal acquisition. Figure 8.1 illustrates the concept of a fully-connected patient- centric wearable telemedicine system, highlighting both existing and emerging technologies. In this approach, a network of low-power wearable devices (sensors or actuators, surface-worn or implanted) is established using short-range UHF radio. However, these devices may not have sufficient data processing, energy, or memory resources to fully realize their function, and so a more substantial controller or basestation device may also be part of the wearable network. The controller could be a multifunction device, such as a personal digital assistant (PDA), smartphone [10], or alternatively, it may be a fully proprietary telemedicine unit. Regardless of its implementation, the controller could introduce a range of backhaul communication technologies, including WLAN, Digital Enhanced Cordless Telecommunication (DECT), general packet radio service (GPRS), or Long Term Evolution (LTE), and provide important local feedback to both patients and carers. Figure 8.1 also indicates the extent of a body (or patient) area network (BAN) that would incorporate all devices worn on, or implanted in, the body. Similarly, a personal area network (PAN) incorporates all wearable devices, but its range is extended to include nearby (say between 3 and 10m away) devices, such as a bedside monitor or a notebook PC.


Figure 8.1 Patient-centric wearable telemedicine system.

8.1.1 Physiological Signals for Patient Monitoring
Remote patient monitoring has had a relatively long history. Since the introduction of electrocardiography by Einthoven [11] at the turn of this century, its use, importance, and acceptance have rapidly expanded. In electrocardiography, a noninvasive, simple, inexpensive, and reproducible procedure allows the electrocardiogram (ECG) to be recorded and provides sufficient cardiac information to permit an initial, tentative diagnosis. Hence, the ability to present this information from a remote location to be analyzed by a specialist offers a significant advantage where the levels of expertise are not available to evaluate the patient on site. Indeed, Einthoven's initial work [11] described the transmission of ECG information over telephone wires. Although, at the time, this was not labeled as a telemedicine system, or more specifically telecardiology, the principles of remote ECG transmission were ably demonstrated. The underlying fundamentals of the process have changed little over the following century, and the ECG remains one of the most important physiological parameters for patient monitoring. Other basic parameters that may be transmitted range from simple heart rate and body temperature to full-bandwidth electroencephalogram (EEG) waveforms and blood glucose measurements, the latter being an essential parameter in the care of diabetic patients. Table 8.1 lists some of the more common physiological parameters and details their sampling rate and typical baseline information bandwidth requirements, ignoring framing, error coding, encryption, and other protocol overheads. Further, more detailed information on physiological parameters can be found in [12]. Table 8.1 illustrates the extent of information bandwidth requirements for remote patient monitoring with most other signals falling within the range given.

Table 8.1 Common Signal Parameters In Patient Monitoring
8.1.2 Technologies for Ward-Based Systems
Existing hospital-based medical telemetry systems are usually for ECG or SpO2 (oxygen saturation-pulse oximetry) monitoring. These are mostly simplex systems operated on a secondary basis in land mobile spectrum allocations at 450 to 470 MHz. This spectrum is shared with other users and the systems are subject to interference, causing regular loss of data [13]. In 2000, the U.S. Federal Communications Commission established a Wireless Medical Telemetry Service (WMTS) with a total of 14 MHz of spectrum at 608 MHz to 614 MHz, 1395 MHz to 1400 MHz, and 1429 MHz to 1432 MHz [14]. This service is primarily designed for tetherless patient monitoring in hospitals (or equivalent health care facilities) [15], and there are strict rules governing transmitter output power, spurious emissions, and interference with other services. WMTS equipment is not licensed for use in ambulances or anywhere else outside of the hospital. While WMTS has the advantage of being a primary service in the spectrum allocated, restrictions on data content (i.e., no voice or video), issues of vendor interoperability and the lack of international harmonization, especially within Europe, still restrict its role in wireless telemedicine.
For sound reasons, including the presence of a global agreement on unlicensed operation and high bandwidth potential, the 2.45 GHz industrial, scientific, and medical (ISM) band is becoming extremely popular for low-power, short- to midrange device applications, including personal and local area networks. In contrast to the WMTS, the use of general purpose communications standards such as 802.11 WLAN and Bluetooth for telemedicine in this band offers fewer restrictions at lower cost. However, since these technologies are not usually formally coordinated, their performance depends on many uncontrollable factors. For example, in the most popular version of 802.11 WLAN there are only three nonoverlapping channels. This means that performance may be poor due to the high interference levels in those installations without proper frequency planning. Nonetheless, there are some good examples of using WLAN for patient monitoring in the literature, including [16]. Note that the restriction on mobile cellular systems in clinical areas means that cellular data services such as GPRS cannot be used.
Power consumption remains a major concern for wearable devices in ward -based systems. In particular, only the shorter range ISM (i.e., 433/868 MHz in Europe and 315/915 MHz in North America) and lower-power Bluetooth devices (i.e., 0 dBm, class 3) have sufficiently small energy requirements to offer a reasonable trade-off between size, weight, and operational lifetime. Some applications may also use cross-band communications to reduce power. For example, in [17] a passive 2.45-GHz receiver is used in conjunction with a 418-MHz SRD transmitter to create a low-power telecommand system where an interrogator can obtain patient information as and when required.
8.1.3 Technologies for Home-Based and Full Mobility Systems
It is generally considered beneficial for many health care activities to take place within the patient's home rather than in the clinical environment. As with wardbased systems, there are a wide range of suitable technologies available for wireless telemedicine in the home. Even though WMTS systems are not available, both short- (e.g., SRD) and mid-range (e.g., Bluetooth, WiFi, and DECT) ISM devices are suitable candidates. DECT modems are particularly suitable for home-based monitoring since the frequencies employed (1880 MHz - 1900 MHz in Europe and 2.4 GHz in the United States) mean that the patient unit antennas are more efficient and that the channel selection mechanism used automatically minimizes interference between units and other users of the spectrum. Furthermore, the use of mobile cellular technologies to introduce full mobility to a personal telemedicine system is an obvious step. A fully proprietary system can easily incorporate a cellular data modem using GPRS or similar technology and can be configured with main power or operate in a power efficient manner. Alternatively, where it can be guaranteed that battery recharging will take place, a standard mobile handset or smartphone may be used to provide the backhaul with either a direct, hardwired, or wireless (e.g., Bluetooth) connection to the wearable telemedicine unit [18]. If full mobility is not needed, then a public switched telephone network (PSTN) or broadband asymmetric digital subscriber line (ADSL) modem can provide an extremely reliable backhaul to the wider telemedicine service.
8.1.4 Emerging Technologies and Novel Applications
Irrespective of whether the telemedicine system is within the hospital or home environment, the short-range link between the patient and base station to be implemented using either low bandwidth, 300 MHz - 900 MHz, unlicensed short-range devices, or where higher data rates are needed, using UWB, WPAN or WLAN technology. The low bandwidth systems are typically proprietary, extremely low-power, and low cost; the antenna design at the patient end is often more difficult due to the longer wavelengths involved. Recent developments in this field include the establishment of a medical data service (MEDS) in the 401 to 402 MHz and 405 to 406 MHz bands [19] to complement the existing medical implant communications service (MICS); see Chapter 9. The MEDS service operates on a secondary, noninterfering basis with existing meteorological aids and related satellite services. A key aspect of MEDS is that it allows for ultralow-power, transmit-only devices with an EIRP restriction of 250 nW at a maximum duty cycle of 0.1% and a maximum communications bandwidth of 100 kHz. For devices that employ suitable listen-before-talk procedures, the EIRP limit is increased to 25 μW. The advantage of MEDS devices is that they will operate in a less noisy environment than other ISM-based SRD solutions, and even with current technology, it is possible to engineer low-cost, disposable, transmit-only sensors for integration within a WBAN (as shown in Figure 8.1). It is likely that emerging telemedicine applications will employ this or a similar WBAN configuration. If so, there will be common requirements for antennas with other developing applications. such as wearable computing [20]. This includes high efficiency (i.e., reduced power loss in body tissue and increased safety), multiband or wideband performance, low profile and physically small design, reduced sensitivity to body proximity, and conformability.
Patient localization is emerging as an important incidental benefit of wireless telemedicine. Depending on the application, localization can be used either in response to a medical incident or as part of the monitoring system itself, for example, providing information on levels of activity. When implemented across a healthcare facility, localization systems can substantially reduce administrative costs through automated data collection and monitoring in areas such as staff work patterns, processing of patients through triage, and ward or theatre utilization. These systems could also automatically characterize the frequency of staff and patient interactions, the maintenance of adequate hygiene procedures, which would provide full traceability and an improved level of safety and security for both staff and patient. Although receive signal strength can be used to obtain a relatively coarse position estimate using standard either active radio frequency identification (RFID) [21] or WLAN equipment in indoor environments [22], better performance can be obtained with proprietary spread-spectrum based signal processing [23] or ultrawideband localization [24]. Regardless of the approach adopted, radiobased personal telemedicine equipment can usually be configured to provide basic localization information. Outdoor localization can be achieved using a variety of methods, including mobile- or GPS-based (Global Positioning System) systems [25] or even localization based on databases of WLAN access points or mobile base stations [26].
8.1.5 Wireless Telemedicine Link Design
Like many other wearable communication applications, personal telemedicine link design involves the estimation of many unknown factors. However, it is still helpful to be able to identify a baseline link budget. Consider a source of average power, PT, radiating energy equally in all directions (isotropically). The energy spreads out spherically as it travels away from the source, so that at a distance d the power density in the wave, PDi, which is the power per unit area of the wavefront (in W/m2), is:


(8.1)

All practical antennas have directional characteristics; that is, they radiate more power in some directions at the expense of less in others. Body reflections can aid this process (see Section 8.2). With GT being the maximum directivity gain of the transmitting antenna, relative to isotropic, then the power density along the direction of maximum radiation is:


(8.2)

The power PR delivered to a matched receiver by a corresponding receiving antenna with maximum directivity gain GR can be shown to be:


(8.3)

where λ is the wavelength of the wave being radiated.
Note that PR ∝ (1/dn), with n nn2 representing the power decay index in free space. It is rare for n to be precisely 2 in practice. In cluttered indoor environments, such as a ward or a patient's home, it can rise to as much as 6; enhancement to n n < 2 is possible in smooth guiding environments, such as hospital corridors.
Equation (8.3) is the fundamental link power budget for free-space transmission (often known as Friis' free space equation). It may be re-expressed in decibel form to give the path loss for the link, initially using isotropic antennas with GT = GR =1:


(8.4)

Take the case of a body-worn 610 MHz WMTS device. The FCC rules for WMTS state that the maximum electric field strength, Emax, at a distance of 3 m from the transmitter should not exceed 200 mV/m in this band. This field strength equates to a power density of 0.106 mW/m2 (PDmax = Emax2/Z0, where Z0 the free space wave impedance is 377 Ω) and using (8.2), the maximum equivalent isotropic radiated power (EIRP) for a WMTS transmitter in the 610 MHz band is then 12 mW (+10.8 dBm). However, to reduce battery size and weight, in practice body-worn WMTS transmitters typically operate with a transmit power of 1 mW (0 dBm). Consider such a transmitter operating in a hospital over a 50 m unobstructed, line-of-sight (LOS) path to a companion receiver. The path loss (8.4) is some 62 dB. A link power budget equation may be set up to give the power delivered to the latter's input port:


(8.5)

For a modest receiving antenna, such as a whip antenna, one quarter-wave in length mounted on a small groundplane, a typical directive gain of about +2 dBi (gain relative to an isotrope) may be expected in practice. The transmit antenna is usually integrated within the body-worn device and it is unlikely that its maximum gain is more than -2 dBi, taking into account a nominal +2 dBi antenna gain with an estimated 4 dB of tissue losses at 600 MHz. In this case then, using (8.5) the maximum receiver input power is -62 dBm, well above the typical noise floor of -100 dBm in a 1.5 MHz channel. It must be emphasized that this simple and wholly optimistic model does not take into account multipath fading (around 30 dB maximum, effectively adding to path loss) induced by the host building's characteristics and blocking by body tissue and other radio-opaque obstructions such as walls and other partitions. These are then the most important factors in determining practical performance and link reliability.
8.2 Antennas and Human Body Interaction in Personal Telemedicine
The near presence of the human body affects the radiation patterns, feed-point impedance, and efficiency of body-worn antennas in telemedicine applications. Such influence may render a marginal antenna (in terms of narrow bandwidth or efficiency) ineffective. The resultant system performance is difficult to predict, as such effects not only vary with frequency but also with antenna construction and feedpoint, body position and tissue composition.
Until the late 1980s, little experimental or analytical data on antenna-body interaction for medical telemetry, which predates the concept of telemedicine, had appeared in the literature [27]; King et al., [28] presented an approximate analytical solution for implantable antennas using a three-layered model, while Neukomm [29] gave experimental results for body surface mounted telemeters. Amlaner [30] reviewed antennas for biotelemetry and recommended the use of whip, dustcore (ferrite), and simple loop antennas for transmission (body-worn use). More recently, research effort has increased in parallel with developments in the wider area of body centric communications, with work in the early 1990s on antenna-body interaction measurements [31] and modeling [32, 33].
A constraining factor for radio-based personal telemedicine is the required size and effectiveness of body-worn antennas. The specification for body-worn antennas differs from that of base-station antennas. The body-worn unit is always required to be as small as possible; other on-board hardware may be miniaturized, but the antenna size (maximum dimension) cannot normally be reduced below λ/4 while still retaining reasonable radiation characteristics. While this is readily achievable at 2.45 GHz with a 3-cm antenna, at lower frequencies practical antennas will be electrically small. Conversely, body losses are greater at higher frequencies, particularly for conformal or other low-profile antennas. Considering these factors, the requirements for body-worn antennas in personal telemedicine applications are:


Unobtrusive size and construction.


Reduced radiation pattern fragmentation. For off-body links, this effectively means an omnidirectional azimuthal radiation pattern when body-worn. For on-body WBAN applications, additional directivity is needed in directions tangential to the body surface, certainly for operating frequencies above 1 GHz.


Suitably matched to the RF transmitter for maximum power transfer, taking account of the potential variability in feedpoint impedance caused by small changes in antenna-body separation during natural movements.


Utilization of the electromagnetic effects of human body proximity to positive effect.


Physically robust (although not necessarily rigid).


It is generally held that the negative effects of body proximity increase as antenna- body separation decreases, the difference between placing a UHF antenna in a shirt pocket and a jacket pocket often being cited as giving around 4 dB reduction in gain [34]. Over the frequency range of interest (100 MHz to 6 GHz) the effective conductivity, σeff, of skin; for example, increases from 0.5 to 4.0 Sm-1, while the relative permittivity, εr, falls from 70 to 36. The equivalent magnitude of the wave impedance of skin is therefore 35 Ω at 100 MHz, rising to 61 Ω at 6 GHz. When a uniform electromagnetic wave intercepts the human body, this relatively low wave impedance reduces the close proximity electric field, while increasing the magnetic field. At λ/4 separation, the body impedance is transformed and a high impedance is presented to the incoming wave, creating an increased electric field and a reduced magnetic field. At lower frequencies (<1 GHz), a deep null appears in the antenna's radiation pattern in the through-body direction due to power absorption in the tissue, affecting both electric and magnetic fields. Mumford et al., [35] illustrated these effects graphically; see Figure 8.2. To take maximum advantage of the 6 dB magnetic field enhancement shown, body-worn applications should feature magnetic antennas where the reactive part of their radiated complex power is positive (i.e., inductive).


Figure 8.2 Effect of the human body on an electromagnetic field, values given for 150 MHz (after Mumford et al. [35])

Using an alternative approach, Fujimoto et al., [36] have shown that an electrically- small loop antenna (effectively a magnetic dipole) has a gain advantage over other types when close to the body. Figure 8.3 shows a simple model for comparing a small loop and a short dipole at a distance from the body surface. Here, the body is treated as a solid plane reflector and the current in the dipole is in the opposite direction to its image. This means that the field produced by the image dipole must be subtracted from the actual dipole fields. For the loop, however, the image currents are flowing in the same direction as in the real antenna, so the image field must be added to the loop's field. Note that in Figure 8.3, the loop is shown orientated normal to the body surface for magnetic field enhancement; analysis shows that a loop parallel to the body surface generates an image with opposing current, reducing the resultant total field. The loop in Figure 8.3 is shown as the combination of four circulating electric field vectors, equivalent to a magnetic dipole orientated along the loop axis (parallel to the body surface). According to image theory [37], the reflection of a parallel magnetic source in an electric conductor is in phase with the source, agreeing with the analysis.


Figure 8.3 Plane conductor model for chest-mounted antennas.

Using the plane conductor model shown in Figure 8.3, Fujimoto et al. [36] derived expressions for the directional gain of a short dipole and a loop (magnetic dipole) at a distance a from the body surface. For a short dipole the body induced gain is:


(8.6)

where Rr is the radiation resistance, Rloss is the loss resistance and Rm is the mutual resistance between the antenna and its image. For an electrically small antenna, Rloss >> Rr, and for increasing values of a, Rloss >> Rm, reducing (8.6) to:


(8.7)

However, for a small loop with the image in phase, the directional, body-induced gain is:


(8.8)

Equations (8.7) and (8.8) are plotted for λ = 71.8 cm (418 MHz) in Figure 8.4; for the typically small values of a found in body-worn applications, the loop (magnetic) antenna offers a significant advantage over a dipole (electric) antenna.


Figure 8.4 Theoretical body-induced gain for electrically small antennas at 418 MHz.

8.2.1 Antenna-Body Effects (< 1 GHz)
8.2.1.1 Loop Antenna at 418 MHz
As described earlier, a small loop antenna is a reasonable choice for compact, bodymounted telemedicine equipment. Figure 8.5 compares the FDTD-calculated azimuthal (ϕ-cut) radiation patterns of a 300-mm2 printed loop antenna in isolation and when it was body-worn. A tissue-layered (skin, fat, and muscle) FDTD model was constructed to represent a 6-year-old female with a height of 1.26m and a body mass of 21.6 kg. The antenna was part of a body-worn pediatric ECG telemeter. The model consisted of 1,403,138 (94 × 59 × 253) cubical voxels of 5-mm dimension. Figure 8.5(a) shows the loop in isolation; note that the pattern shown is normal to the plane of the loop (i.e., with the loop coming out of the page). When placed in the center and normal to the chest of the phantom the pattern [Figure 8.5(b)] developed a directional gain of 2.3 dB and distinctive nulls in the reverse direction. The plots were normalized to the maximum field-strength result (chest-worn loop in the forward direction) and the loop was touching the chest (i.e., antenna-body separation was 0 cm).


Figure 8.5 A 418-MHz chest-mounted loop antenna: three-layered child phantom (a) loop in isolation, and (b) when body-worn (0 cm separation). (© 1999 IOP Publishing Ltd. [33].)

Practical radiation pattern measurements were then recorded on an elevated test-range. The measured azimuthal radiation patterns shown in Figure 8.6 were obtained during a single session and with the same female subject (28 kg, 1.25m tall). Both horizontal and vertical field strength were measured simultaneously using a crossed-element Yagi antenna. The patterns were in reasonable agreement with the calculated pattern in Figure 8.5(a); there was a 20 dB reduction in Eθ field strength in the reverse direction and the Eϕ pattern was 15 dB below Eθ. The patterns were measured in 10° increments, and in both cases, the discrete angle increments meant that only one of the Eϕ nulls was detected.


Figure 8.6 Measured azimuthal patterns for 418-MHz chest-mounted loop: (a) test #1, (b) test #2. (© 1999 IOP Publishing Ltd. [33].)

Figure 8.7 shows azimuthal power patterns for 1-, 2-, 3-, and 4-cm antennabody separation. The patterns have been normalized to the 0 cm condition shown in Figure 8.5(b). As the separation distance increases, the forward pattern gain advantage reduces, and in the reverse direction the mean gain rises, but the nulls are still present. Figure 8.8 compares the maximum body-induced pattern gain for these results with the theory derived by Fujimoto et al. (8.8). The pattern averaged gain (PAG) for the total field (Eθ + Eϕ) is also shown for comparison. The numerical results obtained follow the trend of, and are at most 30% (2 dB) less than, those derived analytically.


Figure 8.7 A 418-MHz chest-mounted loop antenna varying antenna-body separation: (a) 1 cm, (b) 2 cm, (c) 3 cm, and (d) 4 cm.



Figure 8.8 Body-induced pattern gain for a 418-MHz loop.

A useful metric for assessing body-worn antenna performance is the ratio of total radiated power when body-worn to total radiated power when in free space isolation. For convenience, this is termed body-worn efficiency, η, and it represents the overall power losses in the user's body. Comparing the total power radiated by an isolated antenna with the body-worn case, the FDTD model of the 418-MHz loop reported a body-worn efficiency of 60.7% (2.2-dB body loss). Since pattern measurements were made only for the azimuthal (subject standing upright) case, the measured body-worn efficiency was estimated as 49% (3.1 dB body loss) by extrapolation from pattern averaged gain.
Radiation efficiency is also affected by the antenna-body separation distance; Figure 8.9 illustrates that, for a 418-MHz loop, efficiency increases to almost 66% as spacing reduces, but falls to 60% when touching. This directly correlates to the variable-spacing pattern results shown in Figure 8.8, where the maximum gain of 4.4 dB occurs at 1 cm. This means that, where feasible in practical applications, magnetic antennas should be mounted with a small separation from the bodysurface, being careful to ensure that the distance is fixed to avoid fluctuations in antenna input impedance.


Figure 8.9 Performance variation with antenna-body spacing, 418-MHz loop.

8.2.1.2 Loop Antenna at 916 MHz
The calculations and measurements were repeated at 916.5 MHz. Compared with 418 MHz, a compact loop antenna is fundamentally more efficient at this higher frequency as it is larger electrically. However, wave attenuation increases with frequency, and this is compounded as the effective conductivity of body tissues also increases. Figure 8.10 compares the measured and calculated azimuthal radiation patterns: body-induced losses were greater and pattern fragmentation was more pronounced. In this case, the calculated body-worn efficiency was 10.2% (9.9 dB body loss), while the measurements reported an efficiency of 9.1% (10.4 dB body loss). These results are consistent with the higher losses in biological tissues at 916.5 MHz.


Figure 8.10(a) Calculated and (b) measured radiation patterns for a 916.5-MHz chest-mounted loop antenna. (© 2001 IEE [38].

8.2.2 Antenna-Body Effects (> 1 GHz)
In the microwave region and above, the increased energy absorption in biological tissues suggests that the human body will have even greater influence on the performance of nearby antennas. In Section 8.2.1, it was confirmed through modeling and measurement that body-worn efficiency dramatically reduces with increasing frequency, resulting in a 7-dB increase in body losses at 916.5 MHz compared to 418 MHz. However, despite much higher tissue losses at 2.45 GHz, antenna performance can be surprisingly good in this band, particularly when the antenna-body spacing is λ/8 or more. Figure 8.11(a) compares measured and calculated azimuthal radiation patterns for a chest mounted λ/4 monopole antenna mounted on a 100 × 50 × 25 mm conducting box. This device was based on a biomedical transponder for in-ward patient monitoring [39]. The pattern is given in decibels relative to the calculated peak copolar gain of the antenna-body system (2.6 dBi). The measured results were recorded at 10° intervals on an outdoor elevated range.


Figure 8.11(a) Calculated and measured azimuthal radiation patterns for a chest-worn λ/4 monopole antenna on a conducting box at 2.45 GHz, and (b) 5-mm voxel whole-body representation of adult male used for FDTD simulations. (© 2001 IEE [38].)

The whole-body FDTD model in Figure 8.11(b) illustrates how, due to the slope of the chest, the feedpoint of the monopole antenna was 5 cm from the surface of the body. At 2.45 GHz this equates to a spacing of almost λ/2 and was sufficient to substantially reduce tissue losses, leading to a calculated antenna efficiency of 49.0% (3.1 dB body loss). Extrapolating pattern averaged gain, the measured body-worn efficiency was 51% (2.9-dB body loss). Note that the phantom used for the FDTD calculations consisted of six distinct tissues with a voxel resolution of 5 mm and represented a 39-year-old male, 1.8m in height and with a body mass of 109 kg.
For practical telemedicine applications at this frequency, it is more likely that integrated antennas will be required for cigarette box or credit card-sized devices. For example, a 2.45-GHz inverted-F antenna with coplanar printed circuit board ground-plane is shown in Figure 8.12. The F had a total length of 25 mm with a height of 5 mm from a 40 mm × 70 mm ground-plane: the feedpoint was 5 mm away from the grounding point. Figure 8.12 shows the FDTD calculated azimuthal and vertical radiation patterns (in dBi) for the antenna when mounted normal to the chest-wall of the whole-body phantom described above. The active antenna element is only 15 mm from the body surface and the calculated antenna efficiency in this case was 25.0% (6 dB loss). The vertical radiation patterns show that the performance in the anterior direction is reasonably omnidirectional; however, in the posterior direction gain is severely reduced, on average by more than 15 dB. In practice, a telemedicine device is more likely to be oriented parallel with the body surface itself, for example, in the user's pocket. The FDTD calculations were repeated for the inverted-F antenna and ground-plane, but in this case, the entire card was oriented parallel to the body surface. The arrangement was such that the ground-plane was a minimum of 5 mm from the body, while in the region of the F antenna there was a 10-mm separation. The radiation patterns for this configuration are presented in Figure 8.13. The azimuthal plot is strongly asymmetric despite the antenna feed point being offset to the right of the user's chest in both cases. The vertical patterns confirm the reduced gain in the posterior direction. Table 8.2 compares the figures of merit for the two configurations.


Figure 8.12 Calculated radiation patterns for printed F antenna oriented normal to the chest wall, (a) azimuthal and (b) vertical. (© 2001 IEE [38].)



Figure 8.13 Calculated radiation patterns for printed F antenna oriented parallel to the chest wall, (a) azimuthal and (b) vertical. (© 2001 IEE [38].


Table 8.2 Comparison of Body-worn Performance Characteristics for 2.45-GHz Printed F Antenna
The higher frequency WLAN technology may also be used for telemedicine. Figure 8.14 shows the FDTD calculated azimuthal radiation pattern of a hip-worn telemedicine unit operating at 5.2 GHz (vertical polarization, Eθ). The model included an anatomically realistic human body phantom, a conducting box (representing the patient unit) and a thin-wire dipole antenna. The overall FDTD grid was 499 × 93 × 154 with cubic 3.6-mm voxels. The body phantom was for a 1.75m tall adult male, and incorporated 21 tissue types. The sleeve-dipole antenna used in measurements was modeled as a center-fed 25.2-mm (0.36 mm radius) thin-wire element and was positioned with a minimum antenna-body spacing of 14.4 mm. The high degree of separation (> 2λ) reduced the overall body losses, with a corresponding FDTD-computed radiation efficiency of 83.3% at 5.2 GHz. The computed pattern was strongly directional, with a peak gain of +6.0 dBi and a through-body null of -37.9 dBi in the azimuthal plane.


Figure 8.14 Azimuthal radiation pattern for hip-worn 5.2-GHz telemedicine unit. (© 2004 IEEE [40].)

8.2.2.1 Cellular
The body-shadowing effect for a mobile phone held close to the user's head is well known and validated [41, 42]. However, in a telemedicine application, the handset must operate effectively when body-worn at waist height. This is a convenient location for fixed use over 24-72 hours-a likely monitoring period-and allows the routing of cables to localized biomedical signal acquisition modules, as shown in Figure 8.15. The FDTD-calculated azimuthal co- and cross-polar patterns (Eθ and Eϕ, respectively) for an 1,800-MHz λ/4 monopole mounted on a conducting enclosure and placed at waist height on an adult male are also shown in Figure 8.15. Note the through-body nulls. Close proximity of sensor wires to the handset's antenna is a potential cause for further service degradation and RFI to biomedical sensors.


Figure 8.15 Calculated radiation patterns for an 1,800-MHz cell-phone at waist height. (© 2001 IEE [43].)

8.2.3 Emerging Antennas
Wearable antennas for telemedicine are usually designed for maximum efficiency omnidirectional coverage, but with WBAN schemes, minimal off-body radiation and maximum coupling between body-worn devices is required. Regardless of whether the antenna is designed for a far-field radiation mode or for a body-surface coupling mode, a major design challenge for a low-profile antenna (usually a patch structure) is reducing the energy lost in the body due to ground-plane currents. In addition, more advanced applications may utilize individual elements in a smart antenna formulation to provide functions such as beam-steering, null-steering, frequency- selective responses or channel capacity enhancement through multiple-in multiple-out (MIMO) antenna systems.
Research interest in body-mounted antennas has rapidly increased in recent years, but both the potential benefits and the fundamental challenges were well understood by H. E. King over 35 years ago [44]. Since then, low-profile bodymounted antenna research has kept pace with wider developments, but there have not been any distinctive breakthroughs in wearable antenna design itself. For example, for the shoulder-mounted PIFA structure presented by Ogawa et al., [45], it was the extent of the ground plane that had the most significant effect on antenna performance. Furthermore, there is an increased interest in using multiple antenna elements (such as in the body-worn harness with tapered slot antennas used by Kohls et al., [46]) to provide either diversity or improved omnidirectional coverage. At first glance, microstrip patch antennas seem ideal for body-worn applications. For example, FDTD simulations have shown that for a 2.45-GHz microstrip patch of dimensions 23.8 × 37.4 mm (TMM6 substrate, εr = 6.0) placed on a three-layer tissue model (skin-fat-muscle: 0.7 mm, 2.9 mm, and 6.5 mm thick, respectively) there was no effect on patch resonant frequency or bandwidth, and only a small (< 4%) reduction in radiation efficiency. The tissue model had a surface area of twice the patch ground plane. However, earlier research work on wearable, low-profile patch antennas concluded that omnidirectional pattern coverage was not possible with one element [47]. Investigation of the near-field distribution in the TMM6 based patch design showed the expected propagating wave excitation at the radiating edges, but there was also a propagating wave generated in the substrate which coupled into the biological tissues at the edge of the substrate/ground-plane. In conventional patch applications, this surface wave excitation is considered undesirable and becomes more significant as the substrate permittivity increases. However, provided that substrate losses can be minimized, the surface propagating mode may provide the basis for either better omnidirectional radiation patterns or improved performance in antenna-antenna body coupled applications. This is illustrated in Figure 8.16 [48] where, at 2.45 GHz, a propagating wave close to the body surface is diffracted around the body without excessive loss of energy due to tissue coupling. The source was an inverted-F antenna, normal to the user's chest and the corresponding radiation pattern was given in Figure 8.12. The idea of directly generating a propagating wave tangential to the body surface has led to the development of one of the first purposely designed antenna for on-body communications [49]. This so-called "wearable integrated antenna" is effectively an electrically shortened monopole antenna where the whole structure is inverted with respect to the body surface; that is, with the small ground-plane furthest away from the user's body. In the specific design outlined in [49], the monopole radiating element is shortened by dielectric loading (εr = 10.2) and the sensitivity to the presence of the human body is reduced by using a parasitic loading plate at the body-tissue side of the structure. While it is unusual for a small wearable antenna to have its counter-poise groundplane away from the user's body, in this case, the 2.45 GHz antenna had excellent measured performance, with a |S11|≤-10 dB impedance bandwidth of 24% (590 MHz) and an on-body efficiency of 38%. However, it is in terms of its on-body performance that this antenna is most promising. Figure 8.17 compares the simulated and measured path-gain (|S21|) performance of the WIA antenna with a 2.45 GHz printed-F antenna. The path was measured or simulated between two identical antennas on either side of a tissue-equivalent phantom representing a human torso under anechoic conditions. The phantom is designed such that the path between the two antennas was completely nonline of sight. As Figure 8.17 shows, this antenna offers significant gain advantage under these conditions of more than 8 dB at the center of the band.


Figure 8.16 Example of propagating field pattern around the human torso at 2.45 GHz. The antenna element was a perpendicular PIFA.



Figure 8.17 Comparison of simulated and measured |S21| path gain for on-body antennas either side of a tissue equivalent phantom. PF is printed-F (© 2009, IEEE) [49].

As described by Salonen et al. [50], the use of textile antennas has also been investigated; even cellular (GSM) examples appear in the literature [51]. However, a clothing-based textile antenna can suffer from a large variability in body separation distance as the user moves. This causes significant antenna input impedance variability that is very difficult to accommodate through matching and may lead to rapidly changing radiation pattern fragmentation. Despite some of the claims made in the literature (e.g., impedance and radiation characteristics remain nearly unaffected-based on simple FDTD models without consideration of antenna bending, patch compression, or user movement [52]), these radiators can suffer from extremely poor efficiency and may be prone to manufacturing-related performance variations. Nonetheless, there are good examples of textile antennas which have been carefully designed to account for some of these practical issues, such as compression of patch antennas constructed with foam substrates [53]. Furthermore, developments in technical textiles are not limited to antennas; there are many companies and research teams developing and exploiting new fabric-based sensing technologies, which guarantee further related developments in the area of fabric antennas. Other body-mounted antenna research includes investigations of on-body channels for ultrawideband (UWB) applications. In Alomainy et al., [54], the authors note that an over-the-body surface propagation mode was present for a printed horn antenna mounted parallel to the body, while in Welsh et al., [55] measurements indicated a definite null in the normalized UWB antenna pattern when the latter was body-worn in large open spaces with limited multipath. Ultracompact UWB antennas have also been developed for medical BAN applications, with promising performance in close proximity to the user's body over significant bandwidth [56].
Another important area of antenna research is the broad area of electromagnetic metamaterials. Recent advances in electronic band gap (EBG) materials such as those reported by Salonen et al. [57] suggest that both the bandwidth and size constraints of wearable low-profile antennas can be eased by considering the incorporation of advanced electromagnetic materials into the antenna element design. Furthermore, the minimization of ground-plane currents (that cause high tissue losses in wearable patch antennas) while retaining the ability to provide the required near or far field distributions for application-specific requirements, is of particular importance. For example, Baccarelli et al., [58] derived the fundamental modal properties of surface waves on grounded metamaterial slabs and showed that for a double negative metamaterial with εrur < 1, surface wave suppression can be obtained if the substrate height is sufficiently large. Therefore, it is very likely that innovative low-profile wearable antenna solutions based on electromagnetic metamaterials will emerge within the short to medium term, with several examples already appearing in the literature [59].
8.3 System Design Issues
8.3.1 Channel Effects
Radio wave propagation in indoor environments is dominated by multipath fading effects, partition shadowing, and diffraction [60]. However, both the overall pathloss and fading effects tend to be greater indoors than in mobile (outdoor) environments. In addition, human body-shadowing effects can be significant even within relatively small areas, such as hospital wards. For example, a body-worn 5.2-GHz measurement receiver was used to characterize the channel conditions within an empty 7 m × 6 m (42 m2) room. The receiver was hip-worn and had a sleeve dipole antenna. A +10-dBm CW transmitter was located at the midpoint of and 0.3m out from the longer wall. The received power was sampled at 10 ms intervals as the test subject walked away from the transmitter (NLOS conditions). Figure 8.18 shows the measured and predicted received power profile versus transmitter-receiver separation. The predicted profile was generated from the FDTD model of a hip-worn terminal (discussed in Section 8.2.1) and geometrical optics based ray-tracing. Similar measurements were obtained for parallel trajectories at 0.5m intervals across the entire room width, providing a total of 14 NLOS and 14 LOS profiles. Averaged across all of profiles taken within the room, the measured LOS received power was 3.8 dB higher than for NLOS. Although it does not account for fast-fading effects, this is a good estimate of the body shadowing effect that must be included in the link budget for similar installations. However, when considering individual trajectories it was found that the body shadowing effect varied significantly, and was actually negative (i.e., NLOS power was greater than LOS power) for the trajectories at the room edges.


Figure 8.18 Measured and predicted multipath fading in a 42m2 room for a moving body-worn receiver at 5.2 GHz.

In terms of fading distribution, propagation theory would suggest that the channel should be Rician for the NLOS case and Rayleigh for LOS. However, the channel conditions were found to be lognormal for both LOS and NLOS conditions (Figure 8.19), despite the short distances involved in the trajectories. Note that the cumulative distribution functions in Figure 8.18 were calculated from received power levels with respect to the local mean. The simulations based on the FDTD-ray tracing model were in good agreement with the LOS results but were less effective in modeling NLOS conditions.


Figure 8.19 Cumulative distribution functions for simulations and measurements of received power relative to the local mean in a 42m2 room (5.2 GHz body-worn receiver); (a) LOS, and (b) NLOS.

Wideband channel characteristics are also an important aspect of system design and even over relatively small distances, these characteristics can change rapidly. Figure 8.20 shows the normalized power delay profile (PDP) obtained over a 1m measurement distance in the main service corridor of Coleraine General Hospital, UK. The PDP was obtained using a 2,340-MHz pulse transmitter (7.7 ns pulses with a peak power of 2W and a pulse repetition frequency of 150 Hz). Both transmit and receive antennas were omnidirectional discones. The multipath nature of the channel is evident with significant time dispersion as echoes were being received as much as 200 to 300 ns after the main pulse.


Figure 8.20 Power delay profile for a 1m path along a hospital corridor at 2,340 MHz.

Channel propagation is also of concern for short-range, home-based telecare and telemedicine systems. In these applications, the patient device or sensor network is often wirelessly linked to a single (off-body) controller where data may be logged, processed, or relayed as required. Unlike commercial wireless networking installations where access points are routinely mounted high on walls or on the ceiling, the controller (or base station) may typically be placed at a low height to facilitate ac power supply and, if required, connection to the PSTN for dialup or ADSL-based communication. The low height effectively reduces coverage and makes the link very susceptible to the fading and shadowing effects described earlier. There have not been many studies of UHF propagation within home environments. However in [61], it was suggested that 10 dB more transmit power is required at 868 MHz to provide the same availability as a corresponding 433-MHz system, with an extra 20 dB required at 2.45 GHz. These results were based on measurements made in five different domestic dwellings with full-size isolated antennas, and they did not take account of body effects or electrically small antennas.
Cotton has presented a range of 868-MHz mobile off-body measurements that are directly relevant to medical applications operating at 868 MHz [62]. LOS and NLOS conditions were investigated for a number of environments including an anechoic chamber and two typical indoor scenarios, namely an open office area and hallway. Overall, the Nakagami-m distribution [63] was found to best describe fading in 60% of channels in the anechoic chamber and open office area when compared to Rice and Rayleigh. The Nakagami-m distribution was also found to provide a good description of Rician channels, which were found to predominate in the hallway. For mobile WPANs, multipath plays an important role in determining channel statistics, demonstrated here by the deterioration of average Nakagami- m parameters when moving from anechoic (m = 7.8) to multipath environments (m = 1.3).
The low Nakagami-m parameters observed in mobile off-body channels in multipath environments at 868 MHz suggest that an improvement in channel statistics may be obtained by employing suitable multipath mitigation techniques. Time-synchronized narrowband measurements at 868 MHz demonstrated that when the human body is mobile signal branches on the upper limbs, anterior chest, abdomen, and back shoulders are adequately decorrelated with cross-correlation coefficients no greater than 0.6 [64]. Figure 8.21 shows that when selection, maximal ratio and equal gain diversity combining techniques were used to combine spatially separated branches, up to 9.6 dB diversity gain was available for a system operating with back-right and left-chest positioned antennas. When six body-worn diversity branches are available, maximal ratio and equal gain combining eradicate all fades beyond 3 dB below the local mean signal level [64]. These empirical results confirm that significant gains may be obtained by implementing diversity in WPAN receivers which are expected to operate in multipath conditions.


Figure 8.21 Cumulative distribution function for two branch (back-right/left-chest) 868-MHz offbody spatial diversity system within an open office area.

8.3.2 Radio Frequency Interference and Inter-BAN Interference
Other electromagnetic considerations for wearable telemedicine devices include the effects of unintentional radiators, such as equipment cables [65], and user items, such as wire-framed spectacles [66], and more critically, the RFI risk for biomedical sensors.
Over the past few years, there has been a worldwide growth in the number of mobile radio users, which implies a high probability of usage near susceptible medical devices. In this context, problems of RFI have been reported in hospital environments for ECG monitors and infusion pumps by GSM mobile phones placed in their near vicinity (≤ 20 cm) [13]. In some cases, significant interference to the ECG output wave was observed, causing its information content to be irrecoverable. Similar problems can also arise in radio-based personal telemedicine systems. For example, emergency service workers can wear appropriate instrumentation interfaced to their medium-power personal radio (PR), or a separate and dedicated body-worn patient monitor.
Figure 8.22 shows one possible RFI scenario consisting of a chest-worn ECG telemeter and a nearby λ/2 dipole antenna representing a 435 MHz PR [55]. In an FDTD analysis, the body torso was represented by a homogeneous muscle slab 70 cm × 30 cm × 15 cm. The ECG monitor wire was 10 mm from the slab surface and its length was 188 mm, representative of that used in practice. The peak current induced in the monitor wire was investigated by varying the horizontal separation between the dipole and wire from 10 mm to 100 mm. The maximum induced current, normalized to a dipole feed-point drive current of 100 mA, in a vertical monitor wire was 22 mA at a separation of 2 cm (Figure 8.23). It then decays with separation as the feed resistance grows. To avoid staircasing errors, the FDTD model of the tilted monitor wire used special Dey-Mittra update equations, giving a maximum induced RF current of 7 mA. In both instances, the coupled current magnitudes were well within the RFI detection threshold of the ECG circuitry, whether by unintentional envelope demodulation or by amplifier saturation.


Figure 8.22 RFI example with computational model.



Figure 8.23 Variation of the maximum induced monitor-wire current versus separation distance, for a dipole feed of 100 mA. (© 2005 IEE [67].).

It has also become clear that since-even at much longer distances-off-body channels have typically much lower path losses than on-body channels, the operation of colocated medical BANs will lead to significant levels of co- and adjacentchannel interference [68, 69]. This is of particular concern in medical applications as BAN users will tend to gather at healthcare facilities and these users are more likely to be critically dependent on dependable operation of these systems. Recent work by Heaney [70] has shown that body to body interference levels for identical 6-node BANs is extremely high and that developers of medical BANs need to properly address this issue as the number of deployed systems increases.
8.4 Conclusion
Antennas and propagation are both important aspects of wearable telemedicine system design. In particular, the choice of operating frequency will be influenced by antenna size constraints and application-specific factors, such as bandwidth and error performance requirements. Likewise, while there are regulatory limitations and dc power considerations concerning transmitter power, the RF link budget will be dominated with estimates of propagation effects, such as fading and body-shadowing. Antenna requirements for patient worn devices is very much a matter of reducing body losses and ensuring that there is sufficient proportion of the transmitted power in the desired propagating mode, which in some body area networks may be directed over the body surface rather than away from the user's body. In some more critical applications, it may also be helpful to apply spatial diversity techniques to sustain performance. As the popularity of wearable wireless networks grows, there is a commensurate increase in the risk of high levels of interference where users are colocated. Nonetheless, on-body telemedicine remains an important application for body-centric communications.
References
[1] Parsons, D. F., "The impact of information technology in health care: a practitioner's perspective," Telematics and Inform., Vol. 11, 1994, pp. 127-135.
[2] Park, J., J. Son, H. Seo, and M. Ishida, "4-subject 4-channel optical telemetry system for use in electrocardiograms," IEEE Intl. Conf. Electronics, Circuits and Systems, Vol. 3, 1998, pp. 251-254.
[3] Wei, K., D. L. Rollins, R. E. Ideker, and W. M. Smith, "Design and initial evaluation of an implantable sonomicrometer and CW Doppler flowmeter for simultaneous recordings with a multichannel telemetry system," IEEE Trans. Biomedical Engineering, Vol. 52, No. 7, July 2005, pp. 1365-1367.
[4] Pattichis, C. S., E. Kyriacou, S. Voskarides, M. S. Pattichis, R. Istepanian, and C. N. Schizas, "Wireless telemedicine systems: an overview," IEEE Antennas & Propagation Mag., Vol. 44, No. 2, April 2002, pp. 143-153.
[5] Barlow, J., S. Bayer, and R. Curry, "The design of pilot telecare projects and their integration into mainstream service delivery," J. Telemedicine & Telecare, Vol. 9, Suppl. 1, 2003, pp. S1-S3.
[6] ANSI/IEEE Std 802.11, 1999 Edition, Part 11: Wireless LAN Medium Access Control (MAC) and Physical Layer (PHY) Specifications, IEEE, 1999.
[7] Constantinescu, L., J. Kim, and D. Feng, "SparkMed: A Framework for Dynamic Integration of Multimedia Medical Data into Distributed m-Health Systems," IEEE Trans. Information Technology in Biomedicine, in press, 2011.
[8] Scanlon, W. G., N. E. Evans, G. C. Crumley, and Z. M. McCreesh, "Low-power Radio Telemetry: The Potential for Remote Patient Monitoring," Jnl. of Telemedicine & Telecare, Vol. 2, No. 4, December 1996, pp. 185-191.
[9] Silveira, M. H., et al., "Key considerations and experience using the ultra low power sensium platform in body sensor networks," 6th Intl. Workshop Wearable & Implantable Body Sensor Networks (BSN), June 2009, pp. 262-266.
[10] Anliker, U., et al, "AMON: a wearable multiparameter medical monitoring and alert system," IEEE Trans. Inform. Tech. Biomedicine, Vol. 8, No. 4, December 2004, pp. 415-427.
[11] Einthoven, W., "Le telecardiogramme," Arch. Int. de Physiol., Vol. 4, 1906, pp. 132-164. (translated into English. Am Heart J, Vol. 53, 1957, pp. 602-615).
[12] Tompkins, W. J., Ed., Biomedical Digital Signal Processing, London: Prentice-Hall, 1993.
[13] Morrissey, J. J., M. Swicord, and Q. Balzano, "Characterization of electromagnetic interference of medical devices in the hospital due to cell phones," Health Physics, Vol. 82, No. 1, January 2002, pp. 45-51.
[14] http://wireless.fcc.gov/services/personal/medtelemetry/.
[15] Park, K.-J., et al., "Design of robust adaptive frequency hopping for wireless medical telemetry systems," IET Communications, Vol.4, No.2, January 2010, pp. 178-191.
[16] Lin, Y.-H., et al., "A wireless PDA-based physiological monitoring system for patient transport," IEEE Trans. Inform. Tech. Biomedicine, Vol. 8, No. 4, December 2004, pp. 439-447.
[17] Crumley, G. C., N. E. Evans, W. G. Scanlon, J. B. Burns, and T. G. Trouton, "The design and performance of a 2.5-GHz telecommand link for wireless biomedical monitoring," IEEE Trans. Information Technology In Biomedicine, Vol. 4, No. 4, December 2000, pp. 285-291.
[18] Rasid, M. F. A., and B. Woodward, "Bluetooth telemedicine processor for multichannel biomedical signal transmission via mobile cellular networks," IEEE Trans. Info. Tech. Biomedicine, Vol. 9, No. 1, March 2005, pp. 35-43.
[19] ETSI EN 302 537-1 and ETSI EN 302 537-2, v1.1.2, "Electromagnetic Compatibility and Radio Spectrum Matters (ERM); Short Range Devices (SRD); Ultra Low Power Medical Data Service Systems Operating in the Frequency Range 401 MHz to 402 MHz and 405 MHz to 406 MHz" (Parts 1 and 2), (V1.1.2 (2007-12).
[20] Anliker, U., et al., "A systematic approach to the design of distributed wearable systems," IEEE Trans. Computers, Vol. 53, No. 8, August 2004, pp. 1017-1033.
[21] Cully, W. P. L., S. L. Cotton, W. G. Scanlon, and J. B. McQuiston, "Localization algorithm performance in ultra low power active RFID based patient tracking," 22nd IEEE Intl. Symp. Personal, Indoor & Mobile Radio Comms. (PIMRC), Toronto, Canada, September 2011, pp. 2303-2307.
[22] Deasy, T. P., and W. G. Scanlon, "Stepwise algorithms for improving the accuracy of both deterministic and probabilistic methods in WLAN-based indoor user localisation," Intl. Jnl. Wireless Information Networks, Vol. 11, No. 4, October, 2004, pp. 207-216.
[23] Ng, J. W. P., "Ubiquitous healthcare localisation schemes," Proc. 7th Intl. Workshop Enterprise networking and Computing in Healthcare Industry (HEALTHCOM) , June 2005, pp. 156-161.
[24] Jiang, L., L. N. Hoe, and L. L. Loon, "Integrated UWB and GPS location sensing system in hospital environment," 5th IEEE Conf. Industrial Electronics and Applications (ICIEA), June 2010, pp. 286-289.
[25] Liszka, K. J., et al., "Keeping a beat on the heart," IEEE Pervasive Computing, Vol. 3, No. 4, October-2004, pp. 42-49.
[26] http://www.skyhookwireless.com/.
[27] Kimmich, H. P., "Biotelemetry," in Encyclopaedia of Medical Devices and Instrumentation, J. G. Webster (ed.), New York: Wiley, 1998, Vol. 1, pp. 409-425.
[28] King, R. W. P., S. Prasad, and B. H. Sandler, "Transponder antennas in and near a threelayered body," IEEE Trans. Microw. Theory Tech., Vol. 28, 1980, pp. 586-596.
[29] Neukomm, P. A., "Small body-mounted antennas: the influence of the human body on the azimuthal radiation pattern in the frequency range 50 to 1000 MHz," in Biotelemetry IV, Proc. 4th Int. Symp. Biotelemetry, H. J. Klewe and H. P. Kimmich (eds), 1978, pp. 41-44.
[30] Amlaner, C. J., "The design of antennas for use in radio telemetry," in A Handbook on Biotelemetry and Radio Tracking, C. J. Amlaner and D. W. Macdonald (eds.), Oxford, UK: Pergamon Press, 1980.
[31] Scanlon, W. G., N. E. Evans, and M. Rollins, "Antenna-body interaction effects in a 418 MHz radio telemeter for infant use," 18th IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Soc. Conf., Amsterdam, the Netherlands, Vol. 1, 1996, pp. 278-279.
[32] Scanlon, W. G., and N. E. Evans, "Body-surface mounted antenna modelling for biotelemetry using FDTD with homogeneous, two- and three-layer phantoms," 10th Intl. Conf. Antennas and Propagation (IEE Conf. Pub. 436), Vol. 1, 1997, pp. 342-345.
[33] Scanlon, W. G., N. E. Evans and J. B. Burns, "FDTD analysis of close-coupled 418 MHz radiating devices for human biotelemetry," Physics in Medicine & Biology, Vol. 44, No. 2, February 1999, pp. 335-345.
[34] Burberry, R. A., "Bodyborne Antennas," in VHF and UHF Antennas, London, UK: Peter Perigrinus Ltd., 1992, pp. 174-186.
[35] Mumford, R., Q. Balzano, and T. Taga, "Land mobile antenna systems II: pagers, portable phones and safety," Mobile Antenna Systems Handbook, K. Fujimoto and J. R. James (eds.), Norwood, MA: Artech House, 1994.
[36] Fujimoto, K., A. Henderson, K. Hirasawa, and J.R. James, Small Antennas, Herts, UK: Research Studies Press, 1987.
[37] Balanis, C. A., Advanced Engineering Electromagnetics, New York: John Wiley & Sons, 1989.
[38] Scanlon, W. G., and N. E. Evans, "Numerical analysis of bodyworn UHF antenna systems," IEE Electronics & Communication Engineering Journal, Vol. 13, No. 2, April 2011, pp. 53-64.
[39] Crumley, G. C., and N. E. Evans, "An experimental RF transponder for biomedical signal acquisition," IEE Collection on RF and Microwave Circuits for Commercial Wireless Applications, London, UK, October 1997.
[40] Ziri-Castro, K. I., W. G. Scanlon, and N. E. Evans, "Indoor radio channel characterisation and modelling for a 5.2-GHz bodyworn receiver," IEEE Antennas and Wireless Propagation Letters, Vol. 3, No. 11, 2004, pp. 219-222.
[41] Toftgard, J., S. N. Hornselth and J. B. Andersen, "Effects on portable antennas of the presence of a person," IEEE Trans. Antennas & Propagation, Vol. 41, No. 6, June 1993, pp. 739-746.
[42] Balzano, Q., O. Garay, and T. J. Manning, "Electromagnetic energy exposure of simulated users of portable cellular telephones," IEEE Trans. Vehicular Tech., Vol. 44, No. 3, August 1995, pp. 390-403.
[43] Troulis, S. E., N. E. Evans, and W. G. Scanlon, "Propagation issues affecting the deployment of GSM 1800-based personal telemedicine equipment," 11th Intl. Conf. Antennas & Propagation (IEE Conf. Publ. No. 480), Manchester, UK, Vol. 1, 2001, pp. 142-145.
[44] King, H. E., "Characteristics of body-mounted antennas for personal radio sets," IEEE Trans. Antennas & Propagat., Vol. 23, March 1975, pp. 242-244.
[45] Ogawa, K., T. Uwano, and M. Takahashi, "A shoulder-mounted planar antenna for mobile radio applications," IEEE Trans. Vehicular Tech., Vol. 49, No. 3, May 2000, pp. 1041-1044.
[46] Kohls, E. C., A. Abler, P. Siemsen, J. Hughes, R. Perez and D. Widdoes, "A multi-band body-worn antenna vest," IEEE Antennas & Propagation Soc. Symp., Vol. 1, June 2004, pp. 447-450.
[47] Jayasundere, N., and T. S. M. Maclean, "Omnidirectional radiation patterns from body mounted microstrip antennas," Proc. 6th IEE Intl. Conf. Antennas and Propagation, pp. 187-190.
[48] Scanlon, W. G., "Body-worn antennas for ISM-band applications including Bluetooth™," IEE Coll. Integrated and Miniaturised Antenna Technologies for Asset Tracking Applications, IEE00/065, November 2000, pp. 5.1-5.5.
[49] Conway, G. A., S. L. Cotton, and W. G. Scanlon, "An antennas and propagation approach to improving physical layer performance in wireless body area networks," IEEE Journal Selected Area Communications, Vol. 27, No. 1, January 2009, pp. 27-36.
[50] Salonen, P., Y. Rahmat-Samii, H. Hurme, and M. Kivikoski, "Dual-band wearable textile antenna," IEEE Antennas & Propagation Soc. Symp., Vol. 1, June 2004, pp. 463-466.
[51] Massey, P. J., "GSM fabric antenna for mobile phones integrated within clothing," IEEE Antennas & Propagation Soc. Symposium, pp. 452-455.
[52] Salonen, P., Y. Rahmat-Samii, and M. Kivikoski, "Wearable antennas in the vicinity of human body," IEEE Antennas & Propagation Soc. Symposium, Vol. 1, June 2004, pp. 467-470.
[53] Hertleer, C., H. Rogier, L. Vallozzi, and L. Van Langenhove, "A Textile Antenna for Off- Body Communication Integrated Into Protective Clothing for Firefighters," IEEE Trans. Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 57, No. 4, April 2009, pp. 919-925.
[54] Alomainy, A., Y. Hao, C. G. Parini, and P. S. Hall, "Comparison between two different antennas for UWB on-body propagation measurements," IEEE Antenna Wireless Prop. Letters, Vol. 4, 2005, pp. 31-34.
[55] Welsh, T. B., et al., "The effects of the human body on UWB signal propagation in an indoor environment," IEEE Journal Sel. Areas Comms., Vol. 20, No. 9, December 2002, pp. 1778-1782.
[56] Yazdandoost, K.Y., and K. Hamaguchi, "Very small UWB antenna for WBAN applications," 5th International Symposium on Medical Information and Communication Technology (ISMICT), March 2011, pp. 70-73.
[57] Salonen, P., M. Keskilammi, and L. Sydanheimo, "A low-cost 2.45 GHz photonic band-gap patch antenna for wearable systems," 11th IEE International Conference on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 2, April 2001, pp. 719-723.
[58] Baccarelli, P., et al., "Fundamental modal properties of surface waves on metamaterial grounded slabs," IEEE Trans. Microw. Theory Tech., Vol. 53, No. 4, April 2005, pp. 1431-1442.
[59] Bai, Q., and R. Langley, "Wearable EBG antenna bending," 3rd EU Conf. Antennas and Propagation, March 2009, pp. 182-185.
[60] Hashemi, H., "The indoor radio propagation channel," Proc. IEEE, Vol. 81, No. 7, 1993, pp. 943-968.
[61] van Loon, L. J. W., "Mobile in-home UHF radio propagation for short-range devices," IEEE Antennas & Propagation Magazine, Vol. 41, No. 2, April 1999, pp. 37-40.
[62] Cotton, S. L., and W. G. Scanlon, "Characterization and modeling of the indoor radio channel at 868 MHz for a mobile bodyworn wireless personal area network," IEEE Antennas & Wireless Propagation Letters, Vol. 6, 2007, pp. 51-55.
[63] Nakagami, M., "The m-distribution: A general formula of intensity distribution of rapid fading," Statistical Methods in Radio Wave Propagation, New York: Pergamon, 1960, pp. 3-36.
[64] Cotton, S. L., and W. G. Scanlon, "Measurements, modeling and simulation of the off-body radio channel for the implementation of bodyworn antenna diversity at 868 MHz," IEEE Trans. Antennas & Propagation, Vol. 57, No. 12, 2009, pp. 3951-3961.
[65] Troulis, S. E., W. G. Scanlon, and N. E. Evans, "Effect of a hands-free wire on specific absorption rate for a waist-mounted 1.8 GHz cellular telephone handset," Physics in Medicine & Biology, Vol. 48, No. 12, June 2003, pp. 1675-1684.
[66] Troulis, S. E., N.E. Evans, W.G. Scanlon, and G. Trombino, "Influence of wire-framed spectacles on specific absorption rate within human head for 450 MHz personal radio handsets," Electronics Letters, Vol. 39, No. 23, November 2003, pp. 1679-1680.
[67] Ball, A. D., N. E. Evans, S. E. Troulis, W. G. Scanlon, and S. J. Burgess, "RF interference (RFI) between UHF personal radios and biomedical monitoring sensors," IEE Seminar on Telemetry and Telematics, London, April 2005, pp. 4/1-4/5.
[68] Cotton, S. L., W. G. Scanlon, and P. S. Hall, "A simulated study of co-channel inter-BAN interference at 2.45 GHz and 60 GHz," European Wireless Technology Conference (Eu- WIT), September 2010, pp. 61-64.
[69] Hanlen, L. W., D. Miniutti, D. Rodda, and B. Gilbert, "Interference in body area networks: Distance does not dominate," 20th IEEE Intl. Symp. Personal, Indoor and Mobile Radio Comms., September 2009, pp. 281-285.
[70] Heaney, S. F., W. G. Scanlon, E. Garcia-Palacios, S. L. Cotton, and A. McKernan, "Characterization of inter-body interference in context aware body area networking (CABAN)," International Workshop on Mobile Computing and Emerging Communication Networks (MCECN'11), Houston, TX, December 2011, pp. 518-522.










CHAPTER 9
Medical Implant Communication Systems


Anders Johansson, Anders Karlsson, William Scanlon, Noel Evans, and Yahya Rahmat-Samii
9.1 Introduction
Today, there exists a multitude of electronic implants. Heart pacemakers and cochlea implants are two examples. From the beginning with the first implantation of a self-contained heart pacemaker into a human by Åke Senning in 1958 [1], the use has grown to where, today, it is an industry with a market of over 600,000 pacemakers per year [2]. The pacemakers have been developed so that they not only are able to correct heart block and arrhythmias, but also, in some versions, are able to defibrillate the heart and thus move it from a life-threatening state to a normal one [3]. Cochlea implants are another big success of implant technology [4]. The use of these implants gives deaf patients a level of hearing that allows communication by the spoken word. The cochlea implant uses an external microphone placed at the ear and transmits the sound as an electrical signal through the skin to an electrode that is connected to the cochlear nerve in the cochlea. There are other electrical implants that have been deployed, or are under development. These include implantable drug pumps [5], vagus nerve stimulators for epilepsy treatment, deep brain stimulators for Parkinson's treatment [4], muscle actuators for paraplegic patients [6], and so forth. Though not an implant in the strictest sense, ingestible devices are increasingly being employed in wireless capsule endoscopy applications [7].
After an electronic implant has been placed inside the body, there is a need for communication with that implant. Different operating parameters of the implant may have to be changed, and diagnostic data may be read out from the implant. The advances in memory technology also make it possible for implants to store large amounts of data to be transferred to the treating physician, which aids in the treatment of the patient. Traditionally, the communication with the implants was performed over an inductive link. The inductive coupling between two coils, one external and one inside the pacemaker case, is used to transfer data to and from the implant.
There are a number of advantages if the communication with the implant is undertaken at a higher carrier frequency than the inductive link used in the past [8]. These include an increase in bandwidth, which makes it possible to achieve a higher bit rate, and a propagating electromagnetic wave, which makes the system usable at longer ranges. A longer communication range makes a number of new user scenarios possible. For example, some patients may require more frequent checks than can be made practically at the hospital. A home care unit could be placed in the patient's home; this unit communicates with the medical implant and sends regular reports to the physician at the hospital via the telephone system or the Internet. The inductive technology is not well-suited for this application because the patient must place the external coil fairly accurately and keep it there for some period of time. RF technology would instead make it possible to place the home care unit at the bedside table and read data every night while the patient is sleeping, thus making the surveillance more convenient. One example of such a system is the Biotronic Home Monitoring® System, where the pacemaker transmits data to a small external unit that can be worn on the belt [9]. This unit is also equipped with a GSM modem that relays the data to the physician.
Future applications also include communication between separate implants in the same patient. This could be used for controlling a pacemaker from neural signals [10] or to control a limb of a spinal cord injured patient with signals directly from the brain. In a more general sense, an implant could be just one node within the patient's body area network. It is obvious that this will lead to new, closed loop applications [11] where feedback from worn or implanted sensors can be used to directly adapt the functionality of an implant; for example, a pacemaker responding to accelerometer readings or targeted drug delivery for pain relief due to posture changes. There is also a possibility of communication between implants in different patients as part of a body-to-body network. The practical use of this is not obvious, but there are possibilities of mesh networking between different implants across patients in order to increase range and computational capabilities.
9.1.1 Inductive Coupling
Until recently, the most common electromagnetic link to medical implants was the inductive link. For example, a pacemaker incorporates a small coil inside the closed metal housing and an external coil is placed on the chest of the patient, on top of the implanted pacemaker, as shown in Figure 9.1. The inductive coupling between the colinear coils is used as the communication channel.


Figure 9.1 Illustration of a pacemaker with an internal telemetry coil and an external coil, which communicate by inductive coupling.

The inductive link uses a carrier frequency between 9 kHz and 315 kHz, and transmits data at a speed of up to 512 kbps [3]. In practice, the range of communication is constrained to "touch" range; that is, the external coil housing must touch the patient's chest. The placement is often guided by indicators on the external coil because the link is sensitive to the position of the external coil. The inductive link is also used for implantable RFID tags [12] and the BION [13] system for electrical stimulation of muscles by a small implant. The main drawback of the inductive link is that the low frequency limits the available bandwidth and results in a low data rate. The external coil must be placed fairly accurately in order to get a reliable link. This adds to the complexity of the communication procedure.
9.1.2 MICS Standard
The European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI) [14] has standardized the Medical Implant Communication System (MICS) at 402 to 405 MHz [15]. A similar standard for the United States has been taken by the FCC [16]. Note that both the ETSI and FCC allocations have been extended to include additional bands from 401 MHz to 402 MHz and 405 to 406 MHz and the possibility of communication with body surface worn devices. In the ETSI case, these wing bands are known as MEDS [17], whereas the entire allocation is known as MedRadio for the FCC standard [18].
The original ETSI MICS document lists two principal fields of application for the standard. The first one is for telecommunication between a base station and an implanted device. The second one is for telecommunication between medical implants within the same body. The standard does not explicitly mention the third possible use: telecommunication between medical implants in different bodies. The maximum emission bandwidth to be occupied is 300 kHz. The maximum bandwidth is for the complete session. If the system uses separate frequencies for upand down-links, the two link bandwidths must not add up to more than 300 kHz. This implies that, in order to get high data throughput, a half-duplex scheme where only one device transmits at a time should be adopted. If a full duplex is necessary, the available bandwidth for each direction will be less, and this implies a lower data bandwidth for each direction. Note that in the case of a half-duplex solution, the up- and down-links do not have to share the same frequency band. Separate RX and TX bands, each with a bandwidth of 300 kHz, may be used as long as they are not used simultaneously.
The 300-kHz bandwidth is an emission limit: the power at the band edges has to be 20 dB below the maximum level of the modulated output. The resolution bandwidth of the measurement should be 1% of the emission bandwidth of the device under test. The maximum power limit is set to 25 μW equivalent radiated power (ERP); that is, the maximum field-strength in any direction should be equal to, or lower than, what a resonant dipole would give in its maximum direction at the same distance, with the dipole being fed with a signal of 25 μW. This is to be measured with the medical implant inside a human torso simulator. There is some confusion about the power level. The ITU-R recommendation [19] sets a level of 25 μW equivalent isotropic radiated power (EIRP), which equals a level 2.15 dB lower than the ERP level set in the ETSI MICS standard. The FCC in the United States has set the limit to EIRP=25 μW [16], and the same level is proposed for Australia [20].
The ETSI MICS standard test procedure for measuring the ERP from the implant placed in a torso simulator. There is no simulator standardized for implants primarily used in the arms, legs, or head. According to the standard, all implants-regardless of their final position in the body-should be tested in the same position in the same torso simulator.
The frequency band specified for MICS is already in use. The Meteorological Aids Service (METAIDS), which is primarily used by weather balloons transmitting data down to the earth, uses the same spectrum allocation today. For this reason, the MICS system is specified to be used only indoors. This is easily controllable if the communication sessions are started by a fixed device that is placed indoors. If the link is used locally on the patient, between the implant and a body-worn device, or between implants in the same patient, it will be hard to fulfill this requirement.
9.1.3 The 2.4-GHz ISM Band
The 2.4-GHz ISM band is a potential band to be used for medical implant communication. It is the same band that is used today by a variety of services, such as WiFi and Bluetooth, both of which are used by computer equipment. In addition, cordless telephones and household microwave ovens operate in this frequency band.
According to ETSI EN 300 328 [14], the maximum EIRP is −10 dBW (100 mW). The system should be spread spectrum, either frequency hopping spread spectrum (FHSS) or direct sequence spread spectrum (DSSS). In the case of FHSS, at least 15 separate nonoverlapping channels should be used. In the case of DSSS, the maximum power density is -20 dBW/MHz EIRP. The frequency band available is from 2.4000 to 2.4835 GHz. In the United States, the FCC limit in the same band is up to 1W, dependent on the frequency hopping scheme.
The test protocol described in EN 300 328 is not intended for implanted devices. As an example, the protocol states that the batteries should be removed during testing and that the device should run from a test power source. This is very hard to implement in a pacemaker that is welded airtight during the manufacturing process. As well, there are provisions given for a human phantom of any kind
One disadvantage of this band is that it is shared with all the other users of the same band. This places great demands on interoperability and security. The attenuation in the body of the radio waves is also higher than at 400 MHz.
9.2 Antennas in Lossy Dispersive Medium
It is well-known that an object onto which an antenna is attached influences the performance of the antenna. If the antenna is covered in order to protect it from the environment (i.e., with a radome), this will affect the performance. Accordingly, when we insert an antenna into an object, as is the case with a medical implant with an antenna inserted into a patient, we cannot separate the antenna from the surrounding object. This requirement is only loosened if the wavelength is much shorter than the size of the object, where we then only have to include the parts of the object that are close to the antenna. It follows that the body covering the implanted antenna has to be accounted for when evaluating the far field radiation characteristics of an antenna operating in the MICS band. At 403.5 MHz, the wavelength is 0.74m in the air and 0.09m in the body. In a sense, the body will approximately be a very large, lossy, nonstationary radome which extends all the way from the absolute near zone of the antenna to the far zone, at least in some directions. Thus, we cannot discuss or design the antenna without investigating the electromagnetic properties of the body. For the same reason, we cannot evaluate the absolute influence of the body without discussing a certain antenna implementation.
9.2.1 Matter
In order to investigate the design of implanted antennas for higher frequencies, we need to define the electromagnetic properties of the materials. Classical antenna theory mainly deals with antennas placed in a vacuum or in the air; that is, antennas that are placed in a nonconducting environment with a permittivity of ε0 = 8.854.10−12 F/m. When we place the radiating structure in a material with a higher permittivity, and with nonzero conductivity, some of the classical theory must be revisited in order to revise the usual simplifications used in antenna design.
The permittivity ε and the conductivity σ are in general complex quantities that are expressed in their real and imaginary parts as


(9.1)



(9.2)

The complex permittivity εc of a medium is then defined as


(9.3)

Here, the effective permittivity εe and the effective conductivity σe are defined as


(9.4)



(9.5)

The permittivity εe is often scaled with the permittivity of vacuum ε0 = 8.854 · 10−12 F/m, as in


(9.6)

The loss due to conductivity in the matter is often expressed as a dissipation factor Diss or a loss tangent tanδ. They are defined as


(9.7)

where Re[ ] and Im[ ] denote real and imaginary parts, respectively.
9.2.2 Material Data and Measurements
It is essential to use accurate values of the dielectric parameters for the human body when we calculate or simulate implanted antennas. The accurate values are also necessary when we design phantoms for use in measurements of complete systems. There are a lot of data available, mainly from Gabriel [21]. This data is the measured data of tissues from human cadavers. When we measure the permittivity of a material, we get the complex permittivity εc. By measuring only at a single frequency, we cannot separate the conductivity (σ/ω) from the lossy imaginary permittivity ε″. Measurement probes, such as the Agilent 89010, usually give the real part εer and the loss tangent tanδ.
9.2.2.1 Tissue Data
The effective permittivity εer and conductivity σe of different human tissues most relevant for subcutaneous medical implants are given in Table 9.1. The data is given for the frequencies of 403.5 MHz and 2.45 GHz, and is taken from [21]. Notice that fat tissue is markedly different from both skin and muscle tissue in that it has a much lower permittivity and conductivity.
9.2.2.2 Simulated Tissues
In order to test the antenna performance of an implanted antenna in the lab, it is practical to use simulated tissues instead of real ones. Besides the ethical issues, the main benefit of the simulated tissues are that they are stable in room temperature and do not need to be kept cool in order to remain intact (not deteriorate). The simplest form of simulated tissues is a liquid form. These are of the same design as those used for measurement of the specific absorption rate (SAR) in evaluation of the radiation from mobile handsets. The MICS standard references [22], in which four different materials are defined. This article gives recipes for making tissue-simulating liquids representing muscle tissue, brain tissue, and lung tissue. In addition, a recipe for making a material simulating bone suitable for casting is given. The ingredients for muscle and brain tissue simulations at 403.5 MHz are given in Table 9.2. Hydroxyethylcelloluse (HEC) is an inert substance that absorbs water and increases the viscosity of the solution.
By comparing Tables 9.1 and 9.3, we see that there are differences in the values of the dielectric properties. As the use of the tissue simulating liquid is stipulated in the test protocols for SAR, and in the case of MICS, for EIRP measurements, this has to be taken into account in the design procedure, especially when simulations are used.

Table 9.1 Dielectric Parameters for Human Tissue at 403.5 Mhz and 2.45 Ghz
9.2.3 Phantoms
In order to evaluate antenna designs and make link budget calculations, we need ways to simulate the human body. There are two fundamental classes of such models or phantoms: numerical ones used for simulation and physical ones used for measurements.
The most complex phantoms are the ones that use high-resolution scans of the human body as the input data. The most well-known data sets are the ones that are available through the U.S. "Visible Human" project, where a male has been scanned in 1 mm slices with a cross section resolution of 0.33 mm, and a female in 0.33 mm slices with a cross section resolution of 0.33 mm [23]. Similar data sets, which are generated from other human subjects, also exist. These data sets model the human body to a very high accuracy. The data sets are primarily used for numerical simulations with FDTD codes. If the data sets are directly used as the input to the numerical FDTD-simulator, they will use a lot of memory and computation time. Therefore, it is common [24, 25] to use a variable size of the discretization, with the finest resolution in the areas where the actual antenna is placed. Most of the data sets are in a standard pose of the phantoms lying down with the arms at the sides, but today there exist phantoms that have the additional benefit of having poseable limbs. One has to keep in mind that the resolution of a phantom might be too coarse to accurately model the environment in direct contact with an implant and that the real implant displaces tissue and does not replace it when placed inside the human body.
A useful simplification for some applications is to use an anthropomorphic representation of the human body, as viewed from the outside, with a homogenous inside. In short: to use a mannequin and fill it with a tissue simulation liquid such as the one discussed above. This is commonly used in the mobile phone industry, which makes use of physical head and shoulder phantoms when evaluating the performance of mobile phones. The homogenous phantoms are simpler to generate in a numerical environment. These phantoms are available in different body shapes and ages if commercial sources of the shapes are used [26]. Such tools often have the possibility to pose the limbs of the phantom. The drawback of homogenous phantoms is that they do not model the layered structure of the human body, such as the skin-fat-muscle interface, and that the physical versions, by necessity, include a surrounding plastic shell.
The simplest phantoms are spheres and cylinders. The main benefit is that they are cheap to build and easy to reproduce. The simple geometrical forms are also useful for verification purposes, as Maxwell's equations can often be solved analytically for these simple cases [25, 27].
The MICS standard defines a physical phantom to be used. This is an acrylic plastic cylinder with a diameter of 30 cm. The wall thickness should be 0.635 cm. It is to be filled with tissue-simulating liquid to a height of 76 cm. The medical implant should be placed on a plastic grating at a height of 38 cm inside the cylinder, and at a distance of 6 cm from the sidewall. Any flexible antenna from the implant should be placed along the wall at the same height and distance. Other wires should be coiled and placed adjacent to the implant. One interpretation of the standard is that the implant is placed on the grid in the same orientation as it would be in a human torso (i.e., the pacemaker model is placed standing on its edge).
The advantage of using the MICS phantom is that it is easy to build, manage, and use. The drawback is that it is not very anthropomorphic. It resembles the chest of a human, but it has a constant curvature, in contrast to the human, who is mostly flat on the front and back sides. One consequence of this is that a flat implant will be closer to the surface of the phantom at the edges of the implant, whereas the same implant in a human would have the same distance to the skin over the whole side that is closest to the skin. The difference is illustrated in Figure 9.3.
The specification that the implant should be placed 6 cm from the sidewall of the phantom reduces this problem, but introduces a discrepancy between the placement in the phantom and the placement in an actual patient. In the case of pacemakers, the implant is most often placed subcutaneously between the fat and the pectoral muscle beneath the collar bone. This gives an implantation depth of between 0.5 cm and 8 cm, depending on the patient [28]. In the phantom, the implant is placed deeper, which introduces a larger loss to the signal due to the lossy nature of the tissue simulating liquid. It might be that all the actual implanted cases will have a higher EIRP than is measured in the type approval procedure. Another drawback with the specified MICS phantom is that it only roughly models the chest of an adult male human. The female and child anatomy are not represented at all.
There are medical implants placed at other positions in the body that can also benefit from an RF communication link. Examples are cochlea implants, which are typically mounted on the scull subcutaneous above the ear, and myoelectric sensors for control of prostheses, which are placed inside the residual muscles controlling the missing limb [6]. The existing MICS phantom models these other implantation sites very poorly, and will give erroneous results for the EIRP.
It is important to remember that the MICS phantom does not incorporate any fat or skin layer. As the electromagnetic properties of fat are very different from those of muscle and skin, the thickness of the fat layer will influence the properties of a subcutaneous placed antenna.

Table 9.2 Recipes for Tissue-Simulating Liquids

Table 9.3 Permittivity and Conductivity at 403.5 MHz for Simulated Tissue Materials


Figure 9.2 Male, female, and boy phantom used in the simulations.



Figure 9.3 Illustration of the influence of the curvature in the MICS phantom on the distance to the edge of the phantom.

9.2.4 Skin Depth
At low carrier frequencies, the magnetic field is more or less unaffected by the case of the implant and by the body. The field can thus couple through the case of a pacemaker so that the coil of the pacemaker can be mounted inside the case. The attenuation in the case is related to the skin depth in the material. The skin depth is the depth at which the electric field has been attenuated by a factor of e−1 or 0.368. The explicit expression for the skin depth in a homogenous half-space is


(9.8)

where σ is the conductivity of the material and μ is the permeability. Equation (9.8) is only valid for good conductors, where σ/ωe >> 1. This is not true for all materials in the human body (e.g., fat), and in that case, the skin depth is obtained from the attenuation ε−αz, where a is the attenuation constant given as the real part of the propagation constant γ. The general form of the propagation constant γ is


(9.9)

As α is the real part of γ, the skin depth δ now becomes


(9.10)

Equation (9.10) is most easily solved numerically and the results for some materials are given in Table 9.4. The permeability of vacuum μ0 = 4π · 10-7 Vs/Am is valid for all of the materials presented here.
9.2.5 Wave Propagation: One-Dimensional FDTD Simulations
The simplest model of the human body is a block of muscle tissue with a certain thickness, and extending to infinity in the other two dimensions. By this simplification, we are able to simulate the influence of tissues such as skin, fat, and muscle by an efficient one-dimensional FDTD analysis [30], which illustrates the basic behavior of reflection and transmission of an electromagnetic wave in a body. The results in this section are for the MICS mid-band frequency of 403.5 MHz, and the corresponding tissue parameters used. For the one-dimensional case, one can also make analytical investigations, as can be found in [31]. These give the same results as the FDTD-simulations.
The interesting phenomena to investigate are the behavior of the electric and the magnetic components of the electromagnetic field when a plane wave meets the body. Figure 9.4 shows the magnitude of the electric and the magnetic field, normalized with the incoming plane wave amplitude. The surface of the body slab was placed at 1.000 m and the thickness of the slab was 144 mm, which is a typical thickness of a human body at the level of the fourth vertebrae, taken from [32]. Clearly visible is the well-known [33, 34] node of the electric field and the antinode of the magnetic field at the surface of the body. Due to this, pagers often use magnetic loop antennas oriented perpendicular to the body [34]. Inside the body block, we have a dominating propagating wave that is attenuated due to the conductivity of the muscle tissue. The magnetic field is strengthened at the surface between the body block and the air, which implies that a magnetic antenna would be beneficial also for subcutaneous implants.
If we include the skin and the fat layer between the skin and the muscle layer, a more complex effect will be seen. Simulations done with the same body block as in Figure 9.4, with a fat layer and a cover of 3 mm skin on each side, are shown in Figures 9.5 and 9.6. The simulations were done with fat layers of thicknesses 0, 5, 10, 25, and 50 mm. There is a variation with the thickness of the fat layer, but in these simulations, the variation is less than 2 dB at the interface between the fat layer and the muscle tissue, which is the usual placement of the medical implant.
The apparent discontinuity of the magnetic field is due to the current density in the skin; that is,


(9.11)

where


(9.12)

is the current density in the skin and dskin is the thickness of the skin. This is a fairly good approximation, since dskin <<λ.
Simulations for the frequency of 2.45 GHz, with a homogenous muscle layer, a 3 mm outer skin layer, and a 5-mm fat layer, are shown in Figures 9.7 and 9.8, together with the corresponding results for 403.5 MHz. The amplitude of the electric fields in Figure 9.8 are comparable for the two frequencies at the point of a subcutaneous implant (i.e., at the 1.0m mark). This indicates that the higher attenuation of the higher frequency is not critical for this kind of implant. Since the higher frequency has a higher attenuation when penetrating the body tissue, the lower frequency is better for implants placed deeper inside the body, if we assume the same antenna gain for the implanted antenna.

Table 9.4 Calculated Skin
The values for distilled water, seawater and muscle tissue are found in the references given in the table.



Figure 9.4 The RMS electric and the magnetic fields when a plane wave travelling in the positive z-direction hits upon a simple 1-D phantom.



Figure 9.5 Electrical field strength dependence on fat layer thickness.



Figure 9.6 Magnetic field strength dependence on fat layer thickness..

9.2.6 Influence of Patient
When we place a medical implant with an antenna inside a patient, the antenna will behave differently if placed in an arm, deep in the abdomen, or just beneath the skin in the chest. In addition to this, there will be a dependency on the surrounding tissue type; for example, variations in the subcutaneous fat layer. This layer varies in thickness between patients and varies also over time, such as when a patient gains or loses weight. The patient's movements change the immediate surroundings of the implanted antenna. The MICS frequency band corresponds to a wavelength of approximately 74 cm in air and approximately 9 cm inside the body. The body surface is in the near-field of the implanted antenna. Thus, a change in posture changes the far-field pattern and affects the radio channel between the medical implant and the external base station. This variation of the channel corresponds to a kind of slow fading. This effect can be demonstrated both by simulations [27] and by measurements [24].
The gain, directivity, and efficiency of an antenna have standard definitions [35]. The antenna has an efficiency factor, η, 0 ≤ η ≤ 1, which is a measure of how much power is lost in ohmic losses in the antenna and in the body. The ideal lossless antenna, with η = 1, is an impossibility for an implant due to losses in the tissue. The gain definition assumes a perfectly matched antenna. Thus, reflection losses due to mismatch are not included in the gain. Gain is determined in free space in the far-zone of the antenna, which, in the implant case, corresponds to the far zone of the body with the implant.


Figure 9.7 Electric field strength dependence on frequency.

9.2.7 Phantom Influence on Antenna
The circumference antenna described in this chapter was inserted into the male, woman, boy, and baby numerical phantoms. The phantoms were homogenous, anatomically based bodies. The phantoms were filled with a substance with the same characteristics as the muscle simulating liquid. In order to reduce the simulation time, the legs and arms beneath the elbow of the phantoms were not included. The size of the baby phantom was small enough for it to be simulated without any reduction in size. The pacemaker was implanted at approximately the same place in the male, female, and boy phantoms, subcutaneously below the left clavicle. In the baby phantom, the implant was placed in the abdomen; the size of the implant made it impossible to place it realistically below the left clavicle of this small phantom. The lower abdomen is also used in real-life implantation as an implantation spot for pacemakers in small children [3]. The implants were placed at least 10 mm from the surface of the phantoms. The scaled heights of the phantoms are given in Table 9.5. From the simulation results in Table 9.6, we see that the efficiency is dependent on the shape of the phantom. The far-field radiation pattern is also dependent on the size and shape of the phantom.


Figure 9.8 Close-up on the surface where the plane wave is reflected..

9.3 Low-Profile Antennas for Implantable Medical Devices
Antenna design is a mature science today, and an engineering discipline with a large number of design manuals available [35-37]. All these books have one thing in common: they mainly describe antennas placed in a nonconducting surrounding with a relative permittivity of 1, or close to 1. In other words, they describe antennas placed in vacuum or air. The only structure that is typically found close to the antenna is a radome, which is made of low-loss materials with low permittivity. When the antenna is placed inside a human body, we have a completely different situation. The antenna is surrounded by a lossy material with high permittivity. There are two instances in classical antenna applications where similar conditions occur: buried antennas and submarine antennas. King and Smith sum up this field in [31].
There are some examples of design of high-frequency implanted antennas in the literature [25, 27, 38]; additionally, a couple of patents have been granted [39- 41]. If we expand the field to biomedical telemetry, there is much more published material. The systems described in classic texts such as those by Mackay [42] and Caceres [43] use mainly coil antennas, as they use low frequencies for transmission. Most of the commercially available implantable systems today-one example being advanced telemetry systems [44]-use coil antennas, although some transmitters use wire antennas similar to the trailing wire antennas for submarines. The wire antennas are often used for aqueous animals, but subcutaneously implanted wire antennas are also used for birds. Significant progress has also been made in terms of antennas for swallowable capsules where the particular physical constraints of the application have led to many novel solutions including space filling meandered dipoles [45], ultrawideband loops [46], and thick arm spirals [47].


Figure 9.9 The reduced phantoms used in the simulations with the circumference antenna.


Table 9.5 Height of the Phantoms Inc

Table 9.6 Maximum Gain and Radiation Efficiency from the Circumference Antenna Implanted in the Phantoms
Gain difference is relative to the straight wire antenna.

9.3.1 What Is the Antenna?
When we look at the antenna implanted in a lossy and finite body, the definition of the extent of the antenna needs to be discussed. The naïve view is that the antenna is what is attached to the implant, which is then inserted into the patient. This disregards the influence of the implants on the antenna characteristics. Furthermore, the analysis of the radio link have to include the wave propagating from the antenna through the body into the air and over to the base-station antenna. This propagation is hard to characterize, especially as it is hard to characterize the radiation pattern from the implant itself. The radiation characteristics are influenced by the tissues in the near-field of the antenna, and thus vary between different patients.
If we now look at the system from the outside, we can define the implant antenna characteristics as the sum of the implant antenna, the implant itself, and the body. This is what we will see as a radiating structure when the radiating implant is in place. It is of this structure that we can measure the gain and the efficiency. The complication is that we then have to include the body shape and the actual placement of the implant in the analysis. The gain, the directivity, and the efficiency will vary with the patient. These variations must be taken into account by adding them to the system design and to link budget calculations.
9.3.2 Antenna Efficiency Calculations in Matter
The definition of the efficiency of an antenna inside an infinite mass of lossy matter is not obvious, as the far-field is attenuated to zero due to the losses. The standard definition of antenna gain is G(θ, ϕ)=ηD(θ, ϕ) where h is the efficiency factor [35]. D(θ, ϕ) is the directivity of the antenna and is defined from the normalized power pattern Pn as


(9.13)

where  is the far-field amplitude.
The normalized power pattern Pn is defined from the Poynting vector,  as


(9.14)

This definition also applies to antennas inside lossy media. What does not apply is the normal, intuitive definition of the pattern as something measured in the (extreme) far-field. This is because the radiating power of an antenna inside an infinite lossy medium is attenuated by the matter as it propagates outward.
The far-field amplitude is defined as


(9.15)

where k is the complex wave number


(9.16)

The definition of the efficiency of an antenna inside a lossy medium has to be adopted from the one used in air. The usual way of defining antenna efficiency is


(9.17)

Here Paccepted is the power that is accepted by the antenna, i.e., the input power to the antenna subtracted with the reflected power from the antenna. In the case of an antenna in matter, we have to modify this definition, as the quantity Pradiated will vary with the radius r. The radiated power has the r-dependence


(9.18)

where r is the radius at which we calculate the power.
We now define the efficiency of an antenna in a lossy matter as


(9.19)

This definition is also valid for a lossless medium, and hence we can use the notation η for both lossy and lossless media. When the gain is given without any direction stated, the maximum gain is implied. The same applies to the directivity. The gain of antennas both in air and in matter is thus defined as


(9.20)

In order to measure or calculate P0 we use


(9.21)

The surface S is a sphere in the far-zone of the antenna with the center at the origin. S(r, θ, ϕ) is the complex Poynting vector


(9.22)

The problem of measuring the efficiency of the antenna in a homogenous medium is not always important for an implant application, since most of the time we are interested in systems which communicate from the inside of a lossy medium to a device outside in air. Thus, the relevant measurements of the system include the lossy body, and efficiency measurements can be done utilizing a phantom. However, in the development of different antennas, it is practical to be able to compare them by efficiency, especially since there is a large risk of the accepted power being absorbed by the surrounding lossy liquid in the near-field, and not giving rise to a useful far-field. Care must still be taken with the air-skin-fat layer interface that is part of the surroundings of a subcutaneous implant and is not a part of these calculations.
9.3.3 Electric vs. Magnetic Antennas
When we place an antenna in matter, there are a number of things that change in comparison with the antenna in air. The main difference is that the wavelength changes, which is due to the change in εe and σe, (9.4) and (9.5). The wavelength in the material is shorter since the wave propagation speed is lowered. The reduction becomes


(9.23)

Losses in the material will affect both the near-field and the wave propagation. The electromagnetic field from a small antenna in a lossy material can be expressed in terms of the currents in the antenna. By examining Maxwell's equations, they can be used to discuss some fundamental aspects of small antennas in matter. First, we assume a sphere with a radius a and a volume V. Outside the sphere the electric field can always be expressed as a multipole expansion. The expansion reads


(9.24)

which follows from an expansion of the Green function in spherical waves [48, 49]. Every term in the sum constitutes an outward propagating spherical wave, called a partial wave. The explicit expressions for the partial waves  are given in [27]. We can obtain any radiation pattern by a suitable set of partial wave amplitudes atml. This can be achieved by designing the currents in the volume V that give this set. Observe that there is no limit to the size of the volume V, for example, the antenna can be arbitrarily small. The l-value is linked to the angular variation of the field. In [48] and [49], it is shown that the optimal directivity of an antenna with a maximum index lmax is bounded by


(9.25)

Equation (9.25) shows that in order to get a large directivity D we need to have a large l. From the derivations in [27], we get that in the near-zone, kr 1, the partial wave of index l is proportional to


(9.26)

The corresponding power flow in a lossless material is proportional to (kr))2ll3, which shows that the near-field grows rapidly with l. That implies that the electric and magnetic energies that are stored in the near-zone grow rapidly with l. The stored energy is linked to a reactive power flow and does not contribute to the radiation from the antenna. To get a large directivity, we needed a large l-value. This gives large reactive near-fields around the antenna, which implies large nonradiating currents in the antenna. Since the metal in the antenna has a finite conductivity, the nonradiating currents give rise to an ohmic losses. This, in turn, leads to the low gain of the high directivity small antenna.
This result still holds when we add losses to the matter in which the antenna is placed. The large near-fields will then be an even larger problem. As the surrounding matter is lossy, the wave number k is complex and the reactive fields are not purely reactive and will lose energy to the matter. This power loss is nonradiating because it consists of ohmic losses in the near-field of the antenna, such as heat. The antenna in a lossy matter thus loses power in three ways: ohmic losses in the antenna, ohmic losses from the near-field in the matter, and radiated power. The radiated power will be attenuated by the lossy matter and converted to heat as it propagates. The accepted power in the calculation of the radiation efficiency then reads


(9.27)

where a is the radius of a lossless sphere in which the antenna is confined. The radiated power loss is independent of l, while the other two increase with l. Thus, in the case of antennas in a large body of lossy matter, one should keep the l-value low, which gives a low-directivity antenna. The power loss in the near-zone can be reduced by using an insulator around the antenna.
This can be illustrated by the graphs in Figure 9.10, after [48]. They are calculated by numerical evaluation of the multipole expansions in muscle tissue at 400 MHz. Figure 9.10 illustrates that dipole antennas are more efficient than higher order antennas, and that magnetic antennas are more efficient than electric ones. It also illustrates that the thicker the insulation surrounding the antenna is, the more efficient is the antenna. A magnetic dipole antenna should have at least a couple of millimeters of insulation, an electric one 4 to 6 mm.
Dipole antennas only create partial waves with lmax = 1. The maximum directivity of such an antenna is 3, according to (9.25). There are three main choices of dipoles: the electric dipole, the magnetic dipole, and the combined dipole. The magnetic dipole is the most power efficient antenna, if we do not take the ohmic losses in the antenna into account. It is typically a coil that is resonated at the correct frequency by an external capacitor to get resistive antenna impedance. The directivity of the magnetic antenna is 1.5, or 1.8 dB [35]. The electric dipole is less power efficient since the near-field is stronger. This is, in practice, often compensated by the lower ohmic losses in the antenna, as the current strengths are lower. The electric dipole can be made resonant by connecting an inductor in series with the antenna. The directivity of the electric dipole is the same as for the magnetic dipole, 1.5. The third type of dipole is the most common: it is the combination of an electric and a magnetic dipole. This can be made resonant in itself by a proper combination of the two dipoles. The common resonant half-wave dipole is such an antenna. Placed in free space it is efficient since both the magnetic and the electric parts radiate, which keeps the nonradiating currents low. A directivity of 3 can only be achieved when the electric and magnetic dipole moments are perpendicular to each other.
Early body-implanted antennas often featured magnetic antennas in the form of the electrically small loop [50, 51]. The loop is compact and so physically advantageous; Wait [52] has shown that, when insulated from a lossy conducting medium, a loop antenna is more efficient than an equivalent short-dipole. Although his analysis ignored displacement currents (modified currents on the loop due to reflections), it is still applicable to biological applications, as losses in the surrounding tissue reduce the amplitude of the reflected waves. For a Hertzian dipole in the center of an insulating cavity within an infinite lossy medium, the input power required to set up a given field in the medium, Pe, is given by:


(9.28)

where L is the dipole length (m), I is the magnitude of the dipole current and R is the cavity radius (m). The input power required to set up the same field in the lossy medium using an insulated magnetic dipole, Pm, is given by:


(9.29)

where A is the area of the loop (m2).
Dividing (9.28) by (9.29) and using an equal current, I, for each antenna type, the input power ratio (dipole to loop) is given by:


(9.30)

Equation (9.30) is frequency-dependent, and provides a direct comparison for infinitesimal electric and magnetic antennas placed within a surrounding lossy medium. Consider a loop of diameter 4 mm, a dipole of length 5 mm, an insulating cavity radius of 8 mm and, for simplicity, a nonfrequency dependent constant value for σ σσ1.1 (e.g., muscle tissue). Figure 9.11 shows the magnitude of the loop's advantage for the span 100 MHz to 1 GHz; note that there is a fall-off with increasing frequency.


Figure 9.10 The efficiency of an antenna inside a lossless sphere of radius a inside muscle tissue. Solid lines are for electric vs. dashed for magnetic antennas. Dipoles have l = 1 and quadropoles have l = 2..



Figure 9.11 Electric- to magnetic-dipole power ratio required for equal radiated field intensities, for an 8-mm radius insulated cavity in muscle (σ = 1.1); A = 4π mm2, L = 5 mm.

9.3.4 Implantable Antennas Designs
There are practically an infinite number of different designs that could be used for implantable antennas. The difference from antennas in air is that only a few of them have been tested and documented this far.
Two main groups of implantable antennas are the external wire antenna and antennas that conforms to shape of the implant. The classic dipole antenna has also been used for diverse theoretical and basic studies, but it is not well suited for implantation use, as it requires a large stiff extension from the implant.
We will here present and discuss couple of implant antennas. These are:


Trailing wire antenna;


Circumferential wire/PIFA antennas;


Microstrip antennas;


Patch antenna;


Magnetic coil antenna.


9.3.4.1 Wire Antenna
One of the antennas used for implants is the wire antenna [42, 44]. The basic function is the same as the classical long-wire antenna [53] with some differences. Since the medium surrounding a wire antenna in matter is lossy, the travelling wave is attenuated as it travels along the wire. When the wave is reflected at the end of the wire antenna, it will travel back towards the feed point. Thus, the impedance at the feed point depends on the length of the antenna and on the reflection at the furthest end. The uninsulated bare wire antenna in a medium with εr ≠ 1 and σ ≠ 0 is the simplest structure. The phase velocity of the electromagnetic wave in the wire is the same as the phase velocity in the medium outside: vp = vc, where vp is the phase velocity in the wire antenna and vc is the phase velocity in the matter surrounding the antenna. This makes the antenna a so-called "slow wave structure" [35].
The phase velocity in the medium is


(9.31)

where εer is defined in (9.6).
Figure 9.12 shows the instantaneous magnitude of the electric field around a wire in a lossy medium with a conductivity σe = 0.9 S/m. The simulated antenna is 360 mm long and it is fed with a 403.5 MHz signal. The wave fronts are circular and meet the wire at 90 degrees. The wave is reflected at the end of the wire antenna and forms a standing wave pattern. The amplitude of the field is attenuated along the wire and the standing wave pattern in the wire is much less pronounced than would be the case in a lossless medium. The impedance of this antenna is quite independent of the length of the wire.
If we surround the wire antenna with an insulation with a much lower permittivity than the surrounding matter, we alter the phase velocity in the wire. The loss per unit length is lower, as the lossy matter is now removed from the region of the strongest near-field. Thus, the reflection has a larger impact on the impedance. This antenna compromises a fast wave structure with vp > vc. This is clearly seen in Figure 9.13, where the fields around an isolated wire in a lossy matter are illustrated. Here, the wave fronts are at an angle of less than 90 degrees from the wire as the phase front moves faster in the wire than in the matter. The fast wave structure is common in leaky wave designs of antennas [35]. Due to the reduced loss, the reflected wave has a nonnegligible amplitude when it reaches the feed point, and we have a standing wave pattern along the antenna.
In a lossy matter, the insulated wire antenna can be treated as a coaxial waveguide [31]. The lossy matter acts as the outer conductor. This waveguide has a propagation constant g which is influenced both by the dielectric properties of the insulation, and by the properties of the surrounding matter. In [54], an approximate solution to the input impedance of the insulated wire antenna is presented. The impedance of the wire antenna is


(9.32)

where l is the length of the wire, and γ is the complex propagation constant approximated by


(9.33)

Here μ2 and ε2 are the electromagnetic properties of the insulation, aout and ain are the outer and inner radii of the insulator, and δ is the skin depth in the surrounding material. The characteristic impedance Z0 is in [54] approximated by


(9.34)

and the skin depth is given in (9.10). The approximation in (9.33) is valid if the propagation constant for the lossy outer medium is much greater than the line propagation constant γ. The approximation is valid if aout/δ < 0.1.
For a wire antenna inserted into the muscle simulating liquid, with the wire dimensions of aout = 1.5 mm, ain = 1 mm, l = 0.36m, and with ε2 = 2 at f = 403.5 MHz, (9.32) gives an antenna impedance of


(9.35)

In practice these calculations shows good agreement with simulations and with measurements, as illustrated in Table 9.7.


Figure 9.12 The instantaneous value of the electric field around a wire antenna in muscle tissue, with εer = 62.5, σe = 0.9 S/m. The simulated antenna is 360 mm long and it is fed with a 403.5-MHz signal.



Figure 9.13 The instantaneous electric field around an isolated wire antenna in muscle tissue, with εr = 62.5, σe = 0.9 S/m. The simulated antenna is 360 mm long and it is fed with a 403.5-MHz signal.

9.3.4.2 Circumference Antenna
The circumference antenna is a compact antenna that is mounted around the edge of the pacemaker case. The circumference antenna is an attractive antenna, in that it conforms to the shape of the medical implant onto which it is placed. Thus, it does not influence the mechanical properties of the implant to a large degree. The analysis of the circumference antenna follows from the monopole quarter wave antenna in air. From [55], we get the relation between an antenna in air and the same antenna in a material with complex μc and εc as


(9.36)

In the lossy case, the resonance angular frequency becomes complex, corresponding to a damped resonance. The drawback of the circumference antenna is that it has a very low impedance, in the range of 5 to 10 Ω. This is not necessarily bad for the transmitting case, but it complicates the construction and testing, as the universal standard measurement impedance is 50 Ω. It is possible to increase the bandwidth of this antenna by replacing the wire with a thin plate instead.

Table 9.7 Measured Impedance


Figure 9.14 The CAD model of the circumference wire antenna. The thin circle is the radial extent of the isolation.

9.3.4.3 Circumference PIFA
The circumference planar inverted, F antenna (PIFA) is an adaptation of the inverted- F antenna (IFA) [34] to the circumference geometry. We implemented it by modifying the circumference plate antenna described above. The result is depicted in Figure 9.15. The added part of the antenna will behave as if an inductance to ground was added at the feed point. This antenna has the benefit of having an impedance close to 50 Ω, and is thus easy to match to the classical RF impedance standard of Z0 = 50 Ω. The bandwidth is large compared with the circumference antenna. This antenna is closely related to the microstrip PIFA antenna described below.
9.3.4.4 Microstrip Antenna and PIFA
An antenna can alternatively be placed on the large flat surface of a typical implant. This calls for a flat antenna, typical of microstrip type. These typically consist of a flat slab of dielectric substrate, with one side covered with metal, which makes up the ground plane; on the other side, the antenna is built up as a flat metal structure. A typical example can be seen in Figure 9.16 [25]. These are well-suited for implant use, as they are flat and conform easily to the case of an implant. The drawback is that the conductor on the surface will be in direct contact with the lossy medium, and this will give rise to large losses. The solution is to cover the microstrip side with another layer of dielectric material. This will increase the volume of the antenna. One important aspect is that, in classical antenna analysis, the use of a dielectric will give physically smaller antenna, as the permittivity of the dielectric is higher than air. Inside the body, a typical high permittivity material with a ε = 10 has a lower permittivity than muscle or skin tissue, with ε = 45 to 60, and is approximately the same as the permittivity of fat, with an ε403MHz = 6. Due to this, the use of a dielectric isolation on the microstrip antenna will give a larger antenna compared to one placed directly in the tissue itself.
Simulations in [25] show that the PIFA antenna has better efficiency than the microstrip antenna. This is explained by that the PIFA antenna utilize both electric fields and high currents in the loop created by the grounding pin. Half of the antenna will thus work as a magnetic antenna. This magnetic monopole has lower losses than the electric one as shown above, which explains the higher efficiency. More recently combined PIFA/spiral structures have been demonstrated that feature dual band (MICS/ISM) operation [56].


Figure 9.15 The CAD drawing of the circumference PIFA antenna. The thin circle is the radial extent of the isolation.



Figure 9.16 The microstrip PIFA antenna.

9.3.4.5 Patch Antenna
The patch antenna, at first, seems to be the perfect match for the medical implant. It is compact, small compared with the wavelength, and can be placed on the flat side of the implant. Its usefulness is debated. It is difficult to make it to work properly inside a lossy material. The patch antenna is a resonant structure with a plate placed over a ground plane. The plate has such dimensions that there will be a standing wave across the patch. It is fed at a position that excites the resonating modes and has a matching impedance to the antenna feed. The space between the patch and the ground plane is often loaded with a dielectric substrate in order to reduce the wavelength and the size of the patch.
If we place a patch antenna in a lossy matter, the reflections at the ends of the patch will be reduced because the patch surface is essentially extended infinitely by the lossy matter. The wave propagating between the patch and the ground plane is a surface wave. It is not reflected at the edges of the patch but continues to propagate as an attenuated surface wave. The radiation from this is very small. We thus lose the resonant structure of the patch.
If we cover the antenna with a thick insulation, we get a useful antenna. However, this covering must be of a very high epsilon material in order to keep the patch small enough to be placed on an implant.
9.3.4.6 Coil Antenna
As shown earlier, the magnetic field is increased at the interface between the air and the body, and an antenna operating as a magnetic antenna should be advantageous. They are also a good choice from the theoretical efficiency calculations. Ferrites are often used to improve the performance of magnetic antennas. The ferrite material has an upper frequency limit over which the permeability of the material falls. Typical ferrite materials do not work at frequencies as high as 400 MHz.
A magnetic coil antenna is inductive at low frequencies. There is a capacitive coupling between adjacent turns of the coil. Thus, each turn constitutes a resonant circuit. The self-resonance frequency of each turn of the coil is proportional to


(9.37)

where Ct and Le is the capacitance and the inductance in a loop [57]. Below the frequency fr the coil is inductive, above it is capacitive. In order to have an effective magnetic antenna, it should be used at a frequency below the self-resonance. In order to get an efficient antenna, the radiation resistance Rrad should be as high as possible. From this, it is possible to show that the radius should be made as large as possible.
9.3.5 Dependence on Insulation Thickness
The thickness of a nonconducting insulation has a major impact on the antenna performance of all antenna types. To illustrate this, the circumference PIFA antenna was simulated with different thickness of the radial insulation. The result is shown in Figure 9.17. As can be expected, the resonant frequency of the antennas was lowered due to an increased effective permittivity in the medium surrounding the antenna. The radiation efficiency changed for the different antennas, as can be seen in Table 9.8. This shows that any amount of isolation that we can put on the PIFA antenna is beneficial. If the isolation is reduced below 3 mm, the efficiency falls drastically.
9.3.6 SAR
The amount of heat that is generated in the tissue surrounding the implant antenna is of vital importance for the carrier of the implant. This is measured as specific absorption rate (SAR) in W/kg. It is typically taken as an average value over a certain cubic volume of mass. There are different regulations for the calculation of the SAR and the corresponding limits around the world. Two typical values are the one set by the FCC in the United States of max 1.6 W/kg taken over a volume of 1g, and the one used in the EU, here exemplified by the limit set by the Swedish government [58] to 2 W/kg over a volume of 10g. If we take the density of the tissues to be 1 kg/dm³, 10 g corresponds to an integration over a cube with a side of 2.15 cm and a volume of 10 cm³. The size of this box is much larger than the thickness of a typical implant. The maximum SAR values is directly dependent on the electrical field from the antenna, and thus on the size of the near field from it. In order to exemplify the difference between the different averaging volumes, the SAR for an implanted antenna was calculated over three different averaging volumes in Table 9.9. The table is normalized to 1-mW input power into the antenna. The values in table were calculated according to the draft specification SCC-34, SC-2, WG-2, IEEE-P1529/D0.0 [59].
The SAR limit of the FCC cannot be exceeded by a transmitter with an output power of less than 1.6 mW; even if all the power was absorbed in the same 1g cube, the limit of 1.6 W/kg would not be reached. In the same way, a transmitter of below 20 mW cannot exceed the Swedish limit of 2 W/kg. Correspondingly, devices with a mean output power below 0.02 W do not need to be tested in Sweden [58]. The FCC has a proposal [60] that devices worn at the body with an output below 2 mW should be exempt from licensing. There seem to be no specific regulations on SAR for implants in place as of now.


Figure 9.17 Variation of the real part of the PIFA impedance with the insulating thickness on the outside of the antenna.


Table 9.8 Center Frequency and Efficiency Variation with Covering Isolation Thickness in the PIFA Ante
The efficiencies are given relative to the case with 5 mm of insulation thickness.


Table 9.9 SAR Levels of the Implanted Antenna
9.4 Conclusion
Medical implant communication systems are a growing application field for body-centric communications. These systems have some unique complications, the main one being that antennas are placed inside the body, which is a lossy object. This places special demands on the antenna design, apart from the obvious requisites that the implant and the antenna should be made of biocompatible materials and be nonhazardous for the patient. Theoretical investigations on implanted antennas in large objects have concluded that the most efficient antenna is a pure magnetic antenna. Practical design experiments with antennas incorporating a magnetic part indicate that they perform better than purely electric ones. The amount of isolation around the antenna is important for its efficiency. The complicated surroundings of a subcutaneous implant, with the air-skin-fat-muscle interface, make the interpretation of the practical implications these theoretical results hard. The development and testing of implanted antennas is complicated, as anthropomorphic phantoms are complex and nonstandardized. On the other hand, the simple phantoms used today are too simplistic to give realistic evaluation of the performance of the implant communication link when placed in an actual patient. FDTD simulations are, therefore, a very useful tool in implant antenna design, where the results from such simulations agree well with measurements, particularly for path loss calculations and radiation patterns. However, there remains some concern over the proper use of simulation tools and models for antenna matching as in-vivo return loss measurements can vary quite significantly from the calculated values [61].
References
[1] Brunckhorst, C., R. Candinas, and S. Furman, "Obituary: Ake Senning1915-2000," J. of Pacing and Clinical Electrophysiology, Vol. 23, No. 11, November 2000.
[2] Greatbatch, W., The Making of the Pacemaker, Amherst, NY: Prometheus Books, 2000.
[3] Webster, J. G., (ed.), Design of Cardiac Pacemakers, New York: IEEE Press, 1995.
[4] Cavuoto, J., "Neural Engineering's Image Problem," IEEE Spectrum, April 2004.
[5] Medtronic Inc., http://www.medtronic.com.
[6] Weir, R. F., et al., "Implantable Myoelectric Sensors (IMES) for Upper-Extremity Prosthesis Control," Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society, 2003, Proc. 25th Annual Int. Conference of the IEEE, September, 2003, pp. 1562-1565.
[7] McCaffrey, C., et al., "Swallowable-capsule technology," IEEE Pervasive Comput., Vol. 8, 2008, pp. 23-29.
[8] Yazdandoost, K. Y., and R. Kohno, "Health Care and Medical Implanted Communications Service," IFMBE Proceedings 13th Intl. Conf. on Biomedical Engineering, 2009, pp. 1158-1161.
[9] Woermannkehre 1, D- 12359 Berlin, Germany, BIOTRONIK GmbH and Co. http://www.biotronik.com.
[10] Scanlon, W. G., "Analysis of Tissue-Coupled Antennas for UHF Intra-Body Communications," 12th IEE Intl. Conf. Antennas & Propagation (IEE Conf. Publ. No. 491), Vol. 2, April 2003, pp. 747-750.
[11] Fang, Q., et al., "Developing a Wireless Implantable Body Sensor Network in MICS Band," IEEE Trans on Information Technology in Biomedicine, Vol. 15, No. 4, 2011, pp. 567-576.
[12] Finkenzeller, K., RFID Handbook, 1st ed., Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons, 1999.
[13] De Balthasar, C., et al., "Design of antennas to power injectable micro-stimulators: a systematic approach," 9th Annual Conference of the Inl. FES Society, August 2004.
[14] European Telecommunication Standards Institute, http://www.etsi.org.
[15] ETSI EN 301 839-1 Electromagnetic compatibility and Radio spectrum Matters (ERM); Radio equipment in the frequency range 402 MHz to 405 MHz for Ultra Low Power Active Medical Implants and Accessories; Part 1: Technical Characteristics, including electromagnetic compatibility requirements, and test methods., European Telecommunications Standards Institute, 2002.
[16] 47 CFR 95.601-95.673 Subpart E, Federal Communications Commission, 1999.
[17] ETSI EN 302 537-1 & ETSI EN 302 537-2, v1.1.2 Electromagnetic compatibility and Radio spectrum Matters (ERM); Short Range Devices (SRD); Ultra Low Power Medical Data Service Systems operating in the frequency range 401 MHz to 402 MHz and 405 MHz to 406 MHz" (Parts 1 & 2), (V1.1.2 (2007-12).
[18] FCC Rules and Regulations, Report and Order FCC 09-23, March 20, 2009.
[19] Recommendation ITU-R SA.1346, International Telecommunication Union, 1998.
[20] "Planning for medical implant communications systems (MICS) and related devices," Australian Communications Authority, Proposals Paper SPP 6/03, October.
[21] Gabriel, C. "Compilation of the dielectric properties of body tissues at RF and microwave frequencies," Brooks Air Force, technical report AL/OETR- 1996-0037, 1996.
[22] Hartsgrove, G., A. Kraszewski, and A. Surowiec, "Simulated biological materials for electromagnetic radiation absorption studies," Bioelectromagnetics, No. 8, 1987, pp. 29-365.
[23] "The visible human project," http://www.wma.net, 2004, United States National Library of Medicine.
[24] Scanlon, W. G., J. B. Burns, and N. E. Evans, "Radiowave propagation from a tissueimplanted source at 418 MHz and 916.5 MHz." IEEE Trans. on Biomedical Engineering, April 2000, pp. 527-534.
[25] Kim, J., and Y. Rhamat-Samii, "Implanted antennas inside a human body: Simulations, designs and characterizations," IEEE Trans. on Microwave Theory and Techniques, Vol. 52, No. 8, August 2004, pp. 1934-1943.
[26] Curios Labs., http://www.e-frontier.com/go/products/poser,
[27] Johansson, A. J., Wireless Communications with Medical Implants: Antennas and Propagation, 1st Editon, Ph. D thesis, Lund University, Sweden, No. 45, 2005.
[28] Fåhreus, T. D., personal communication, Lund University Hospital, Lund, Sweden.
[29] Buchner, R., J. Barthel, and J. Stauber, "The dielectric relaxation of water between 0C and 35C," Chem. Phys. Letters, Vol. 306, No. 1-2, June 1999.
[30] Taflove, A., Computational Electrodynamics, Norwood, MA: Artech House, 1995.
[31] King, R. W. P., and S. G. Smith, Antennas in Matter, Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1981.
[32] Köpf-Maier, P., Atlas of Human Anatomy, 5th ed., Basel, Switzerland: Karger, 2000.
[33] Durney, A. H., and D. A. Christen, Basic Introduction to Bioelectromagnetics, CRC Press, 1999.
[34] Fujimoto, K., and J. R. James (eds.), Mobile Antenna Systems Handbook, Second Edition, Norwood, MA: Artech House, 2001.
[35] Balanis, C. A., Antenna Theory, 2nd ed., Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley and Sons, Inc., 1982.
[36] Kraus, J. D., Antennas, New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1988.
[37] Kildal, P-S., Foundations of Antennas Student Literature, 2000.
[38] Furse, C., "Design of an antenna for pacemaker communication," Microwaves and RF, Vol. 39, No. 3, 2000, pp. 73-76.
[39] Sun, W., G. Haubrich, and G. Dublin, "US Pat. No. 5,861,091 implantable medical device microstrip telemetry antenna," USPTO, 1999.
[40] Amundson, M. D., J. A. Von Arx, W. J. Linder, P. Rawat, and W. R. Mass, "US Pat. No. 6,456,256 circumferenctiual antenna for an implantable medical device," 2002, USPTO.
[41] Von Arx, J. A., W. R. Mass, S. T. Mazar, and M. D. Amundson, "US Pat. No. 6,708,065 antenna for an implantable pacemaker," 2004, ISPTO.
[42] Mackay, R. S., Bio-Medical Telemetry, 2nd Ed., IEEE Press, 1993.
[43] Caceres, C. A., Ed., Biomedical Telemetry, Waltham, MA: Academic Press, 1965.
[44] Advanced Telemetry Systems, Inc., "Product catalogue," http://www.atstrack.com, 2004.
[45] Izdebski, P. M., H. Rajagopalan, and Y. Rahmat-Samii, "Conformal ingestible capsule antenna: a novel chandelier meandered design," IEEE Trans. Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 57, No. 4, 2009, pp. 900-909.
[46] Yun, S., K. Kim, and S. Nam, "Outer-wall loop antenna for ultrawideband capsule endoscope system," IEEE Antennas & Wireless Propag. Letters, Vol. 9, 2010, pp. 1135-1138.
[47] Lee, S. H., et al., "A wideband spiral antenna for ingestible capsule endoscope systems: experimental results in a human phantom and a pig," IEEE Trans. Biomedical Eng., Vol. 58, No. 6, 2011, pp. 1734-1741.
[48] Karlsson, A., "Physical Limitations of Antennas in a Lossy Medium," IEEE Trans. on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 52, No. 8, August 2004, pp. 2027-2033.
[49] Harrington, R. F., Time Harmonic Electromagnetic Fields, New York: McGraw-Hill, 1961.
[50] Scanlon, W. G., N. E. Evans, and Z. M. McCreesh, "RF performance of a 418 MHz radio telemeter packaged for human vaginal placement," IEEE Trans. Biomedical Engineering, Vol. 44, No. 5, May 1007, pp. 427-430.
[51] Norris, M., J-D. Richerd, and D. Raynes, "Sub miniature antenna design for wireless implants," IET Seminar on Antennas and Propagation for Body-Centric Wireless Communications, London, UK, April 2007, pp. 57-62.
[52] Wait, J. R., "Electromagnetic fields of sources in lossy media." in Antenna Theory. R. E. Collin and F. J. Zucker (eds.), New York: McGraw Hill, 1969, pp. 438-514.
[53] Kraus, J. D., Electromagnetics, 4th ed., New York: McGraw Hill, 1992.
[54] Fenwick, R. C., and W. L. Weeks, "Submerged antenna characteristics," IEEE Trans. on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 11, No. 3, May 1963.
[55] Deschamps, G. A., "Impedance of an antenna in a conducting medium," IEEE Trans. on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 10, No. 5, September 1962.
[56] Merli, F., et al., "Design, Realization and Measurements of a Miniature Antenna for Implantable Wireless Communication Systems," IEEE Trans. on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 59, No. 10, October 2011, pp. 3544-3555.
[57] Stutzman, W., and G. Thiele, Antenna Theory and Design, Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley and Sons, 1998.
[58] "Mobiltelefoner och strålning," Sweden's Radiation Protection Authority, Tech. Rep., 2003.
[59] "SEMCAD: addendum to the reference manual," Shmid and Partner Engineering AG., Manual, 2004. Available: http://www.semcad.com.
[60] "Proposed changes in the commission's rules regarding human exposure to radiofrequency electromagnetic fields." Federal Communications Commission, Tech. Rep., 2003.
[61] Karacolak, T., R. Cooper, J. Butler, S. Fisher, and E. Topsakal, "In Vivo Verification of Implantable Antennas Using Rats as Model Animals," IEEE Antennas and Wireless Propagation Letters, Vol. 9, December 2010, pp. 334-337.









CHAPTER 10
Conclusions

Peter S. Hall and Yang Hao
This second edition of Antennas and Propagation for Body-Centric Wireless Communications has built on the foundation laid in the first edition and brought it up to date by reporting on the many advances made in the intervening period. There has indeed been a plethora of new work in all areas; this has answered many of the questions, but at the same time, has raised many more. In some topics, it has allowed attention to be moved on to other issues, both at a fundamental and an applied nature. This chapter attempts to bring these topics together to summarize what has already been achieved and also to try to point the way ahead.
In terms of enabling knowledge and tools, the understanding and specification of the parameters of the various tissues in the human body is now well-established up to around 20 GHz. Above this frequency-while various parameter studies have been made-further verification may be needed to add confidence. Of course, there are not many body area networks (BANs) being designed at such high frequencies. However, there may be a future need, and indeed, studies are beginning to be made of the possibility of BANs at 60 GHz, because of the fast fall-off of energy away from the body, and hence, their very low electromagnetic signature. In addition, as BANs are applied to nonhuman subjects, such as domestic and farmed animals, additional data will also be applied.
In a similar spirit, the provision of physical phantoms is now a well-established topic. There are three primary types: liquid, gel, and solid phantoms. The liquid type is low cost and easy to prepare, but needs a container; in the case of whole body, head, or hand, this container may be a fiberglass shell, which does not well simulate the very local tissue properties around the antenna, and thus may not accurately model detuning and tissue antenna interactions. Gel phantoms are much better but require more involved preparation and have a limited lifetime. Solid phantoms are also better but are expensive and difficult to make. There are a few phantoms made with internal detail, such as a fetus in a pregnant woman, but in general, internal details are not modeled, and there are no established physical phantoms suitable for the study of implant antennas. In addition, as the variation of on-body channels is of great interest in designing very power efficient transceivers, the concept of moving phantom has not been widely considered. Articulated phantoms that can be moved into various postures exist, but motorized variants are now beginning to be created.
Progress in computational electromagnetics and voxel phantoms continues. While numerical solvers are now able to simulate an antenna on the human body in a short time, speed up is still needed, as the interest in BANs at higher frequencies increases, such as 60 GHz, for low observable applications. At this frequency, single processor computers cannot solve the body problem and parallel computing is needed. In addition, there is a possibility to integrate known statistical models into EM software to begin to address the problem of the moving body, as discussed further. In addition, while there are several solutions for the multi-scale problem, these have not yet all been applied to the electrically small antenna on a human body.
There are an increasing number of voxel phantoms available. There are also software packages for deforming them into various postures. Thus for example, standing, sitting, or lying down, can be modeled, where the latter posture is important in the application of BANs to medical monitoring applications. In general, available phantoms are average representations of the wide variation of size and shape among the human population. To address the shortfall in accurate modeling of the specific body properties of the people needing BANs (or, more importantly, medical implants with communications), advances have been made in particularizing computational phantoms to specific subjects and the concept of the creation of a personal phantom from the data gathered from various current medical scanning methods shows great potential. The possibility of a patient having a personalized phantom created, which can then be used for simulation to assist a surgeon in the optimal placement of an implant has much to recommend it. In addition, the extraction of channel variation on a moving human, from the combination of games animation software with electromagnetic simulation, points to a future in which the dynamic performance of the channel will be regularly predicted. While the games animation software so far used has generic human models-albeit, very realistically modeled-precise movement modeling of actual people has also been demonstrated through motion capture data being used to drive the posture of the numerical phantom. Currently, motion is modeled by creating a large number of phantoms in a movie and dropping them, frame-by-frame, into the EM solver at a rate considered to be fast enough to capture slow fading. The frame rate to predict fast fading would be very high and has not been demonstrated. In all these methods, the computational demands are enormous. However, the combination of the various concepts (subject-specific phantoms) motion capture of the subjects and simulation of channel and antenna performance on a moving body has, at the same time, significant challenges yet also great potential. It is an area where further study is needed and is very likely to happen.
In parallel with this development of new numerically based methods, there is a growing interest in pushing forward analytical solutions for radio wave propagation on the body, both to gain a deeper understanding of the processes at work and to provide models for fast EM solvers. While there are closed form solutions for elementary sources close to flat and curved lossy dielectric half planes and also for a layered media, there are insufficient solutions to enable, for example, a ray tracing model of an antenna on a human body, to be solved. As noted above, numerical solvers still require large computing resources, particularly to solve the dynamic body problem, and ray tracing may lead to tractable solutions. Currently, there is interest in bringing existing ray tracing software into the body-centric arena; however, more work is needed, particularly in the area of diffraction coefficients for doubly curved lossy dielectrics with complex shaped internal features. In addition, there is work in solving scattering problems involving several bodies having relative movement. Such solutions may prove useful, for example, in modeling field effects around the legs, by solving a two cylinder model with tilting axes.
The performance of many different antennas on the human body has been studied, both in terms of their detuning, their efficiency, and their performance in various channels. In general, the detuning and efficiency are better, and specific absorption rate reduced, where the antenna has a large ground plane, and the application of electromagnetic bandgap materials has been show to be effective here. These types of antenna are ideal where the energy is directed away from the body to a local or distant base station. When an on-body channel is needed, generally efficiency is sacrificed as the energy needed to be directed along the body surface. When the antenna is to be used in an implant, then an insulating layer surrounding the antenna is used to shield its reactive field from the high loss in the tissue. The trade-off between implant size and efficiency is now well understood. Antennas at low frequencies operate differently than those at microwave frequencies, in that communications can be considered to be through the near fields, and the antennas are thought of as electrodes; these can be quite small and control of the fields generated is not really considered. At microwave frequencies, radiation pattern shape and polarization are important, and antennas with current sources normal to the body surface perform best, both for off-body and on-body channels. Having said that, the design of antennas parallel to the surface is being investigated for incorporation into "sticking plaster" type sensors. Multiple antennas for diversity and MIMO have been studied and shown to work well on the body. There are a few antennas that switch the radiation pattern between an off- and on-body channel. For BANs at millimetric frequencies, where high gain may be needed to achieve successful communications in the face of a much higher path loss, reconfigurable antennas may become necessary to maintain a correct beam direction as the body moves.
In general, antenna design for use on the body is now well understood. However, the problem of how to extract the antenna from the channel performance, or de-embed it, has not been solved, although the problem itself is better understood. In an off-body channel, the antenna performance can be well characterized in terms of efficiency, match, and radiation pattern at infinity. However, all of these may vary as the body moves, particularly if the antenna is carried in loose clothing or is close to a part of the body where the local shape changes, such as on the shoulders or head, or on the limbs. In principle, the antenna can be de-embedded from the channel instant by instant, although, for example, in the mobile phone case, it is not often done due to the complexity of the process. If the channel is on the body, then the additional problem of not being able to define a local radiation pattern, means that deembedding is at best approximate and at worst unstable. This leaves the designer having to check the performance of his new antenna in the channel for which it is designed by measurement or simulation. The discussion concerning simulation of channel performance on moving bodies thus becomes of interest to the antenna designer.
Recently, there has been much work on radiowave propagation models for the common UHF and microwave bands (both narrow and wideband) and for channels off, on, and in the human body. Channel effects are now relatively well understood and various models can be used to guide systems design. As in mobile phone channels, fading is separated into slow and fast fading and statistical models are derived. Models based on autocorrelation have been used. Body maps of acceptable bit error rates are therefore being established for various communication node distributions. There is much less data in channels from BAN to BAN, and yet these are important to establish reliability of BAN operation in places crowded with BAN users such as hospitals. Similarly, there is only little data on the correlation between several channels on the same body; yet this data is needed to estimate latency or delay in packet delivery in networks with many nodes.
Now that the performance of channels is well understood, researchers are beginning to investigate ways of controlling propagation around the body. Smart jackets are an example where electromagnetic structures are being developed to enhance the trapping of surface wave. It is, of course, necessary not only to trap the wave, but also to easily excite it. One of the biggest challenges is the simple and efficiency coupling between the antenna and the wave.
There has been an explosion of literature on fabric-based antennas. While the use of conventional antennas was demonstrated some time ago, there has been much work on the technology of creating the conducting layers, either through woven wires, plating fabrics, or other methods, and the problem of layering conducting and insulating materials without delamination in use. The effects of bending and creasing are also actively being studied. It is clear that the opportunities for integrating fabric antennas into the clothing of specialist workers, like fire fighters and paramedics, is very considerable and will involve both antenna and clothing designers for some time to come.
Implant antenna design has a number of additional difficulties, which means that the number of workers in this area is limited. Measurements in situ in the body are impossible for most antenna laboratories and need collaborations with medical teams or companies. Collaboration with animal experiments is easier, but may be of limited applicability to humans. This places a large emphasis of simulation tools, but in general, the internal details may not be accurate, particularly for organs such as the digestive tract and bladder where large differences of content take place with time. In addition, movement changes the shape and size of some organs, which is also not well-modeled. In spite of this, there is significant progress, antenna designs are appearing, and communications channel link budgets are presented. The derivation of systematic models for radio wave propagation is limited. Overall, this is an extremely challenging area for the researcher, and much work on tools for accurate design is needed.
Applications of body-centric wireless communications abound and are growing. In particular, the use in body sensor networks is crucial, and widely acknowledged as a key technology. New medical systems using body-centric wireless are now regularly hitting the market. Other applications are less well publicized, but equally important, such as vital signs monitoring for workers in hazardous occupations, such as firefighters and divers. The military is also expecting to equip soldiers with body sensor networks, and these applications have different criteria, such as that of observability by the enemy. As all of these systems are deployed, the future question of mutual interference will be of increasing importance. In conclusion, there are still many problems to be solved in body-centric wireless communications, and it thus provides a fascinating and challenging area for both researchers and designers.










 
About the Authors

Qammer H. Abbasi received his bachelor's degree from the Department of Electrical Engineering UET Lahore in 2007 and his Ph.D. in antennas and radio propagation for UWB body-centric wireless communications in 2011 from the School of Electronic Engineering and Computer Science, Queen Mary, University of London. After receiving his bachelor's degree, he joined the Electrical Engineering Department as lecturer/lab engineer in October 2007 and started his MSC from the same institution. In September 2008, he joined King's College as a research student and worked there for three months. In December 2008, he joined the Antenna & Electromagnetics Research Group at Queen Mary University of London. His research interests include UWB system design, UWB antenna design for body-centric wireless communication, and field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs). He has been published in over 35 journals and peer-reviewed conference papers. He is a regular reviewer for leading international journals such as IEEE Antennas and Propagation Transactions and IEEE Microwave and Theory Techniques Transactions.
Akram Alomainy received an M.Eng. in communication engineering and a Ph.D. in electrical and electronic engineering from Queen Mary University of London, in 2003 and 2007, respectively. He is a lecturer with the Antennas and Electromagnetics Research Group, Queen Mary, University of London (QMUL). He joined the Department of Electronic Engineering, QMUL, as a lecturer in 2007. He has authored or coauthored three book chapters and over 75 technical papers in leading journals and peer-reviewed conferences. He served as a publication chair and member of the organizing committee for various antennas and propagation related conferences and workshops, including iWAT 2007 and LAPC 2008. He is a reviewer for many leading transactions and journals in antennas, radio propagation, and communication systems. Dr. Alomainy won the Isambard Brunel Kingdom award in 2011 for outstanding young science and engineering communicator and public engager. He is a very active member of the Outreach committee in his school, delivering talks to young students at schools and colleges and also promoting science and engineering research to the media nationally and internationally. He is a member of the Institute of Engineering and Technology, U.K., and an expert reviewer for Engineering and Physical Sciences Research (EPSRC), U.K.
Costas Constantinou was born in Famagusta, Cyprus in 1964. He received his B.Eng. (Hons) in electronic and communications engineering and a Ph.D. in electronic and electrical engineering from the University of Birmingham, U.K., in 1987 and 1991, respectively. In 1989, he joined the School of Electronic and Electrical Engineering at the University of Birmingham as a lecturer and is now a reader in communications engineering. His research interests span many aspects of modern communications engineering, such as electromagnetic theory, electromagnetic scattering and diffraction, electromagnetic measurement, radiowave propagation modeling, mobile radio, wireless networks, adaptive communication network architectures, and the modeling of very large scale networks using methods of statistical physics. At the time of publication, Dr. Constantinou is chairman of the UK URSI panel. He is a member of the IEEE and the Institute of Physics. His publications include four book chapters, approximately 100 refereed journal and conference papers, and he has coauthored two patents.
Simon L. Cotton received a B.Eng. in electronics and software from the University of Ulster, Ulster, U.K., in 2004 and a Ph.D. in electrical and electronic engineering from the Queen's University of Belfast, Belfast, U.K., in 2007. Since graduating, Dr. Cotton has worked as a senior research fellow at Queen's University Belfast. His research interests include wireless channel characterization and modeling for body-centric communications, multiantenna body-worn systems, and the simulation of wireless channels. He has authored and coauthored over 50 publications in major IEEE/IET journals and refereed international conferences, two book chapters, and two patents. In July 2010, he was awarded the H. A. Wheeler Prize by the IEEE Antennas and Propagation Society for the best applications journal paper in IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation in 2009. In July 2011, he was awarded the Sir George Macfarlane Award from the Royal Academy of Engineering, U.K., in recognition of his technical and scientific attainment since graduating from his first degree in engineering.
Philippe De Doncker (Ph.D.) received a physics engineering degree in 1996 and Ph.D. in 2001, both from the Université Libre de Bruxelles, Belgium, where he is now an assistant professor. His research focus is on propagation and statistical methods for wireless communications.
Patrick Claus Friedrich Eggers (M.Sc.E.E., Ph.D.), associate professor, has been project leader of the propagation group of Center for PersonKommunikation (CPK) at Aalborg University (AAU) since 1992. He is currently the research coordinator of the Antennas and Propagation Division, Department of Communication Technology (KOM), AAU. He is on the technical research council of the Center for TeleInFrastruktur (CTIF) at AAU, and has been project and work package manager in several European research projects (TSUNAMI, CELLO, etc.) and in industrial projects with partners such as Nokia, Ericsson, Motorola, IOSpan, ArrayComm, Avendo Wireless, and Samsung as representative of CTIF, KOM (and previously the CPK). He is the author of over 40 papers, as well as section author and chapter editor in different COST final reports (COST207, 231, 259) and books on ultrawideband and cooperative communication. He is initiator and coordinator of an internationally targeted M.Sc.E.E. program in mobile communications and has taught in English at Aalborg University, and was also designer and coordinator of a newly created program in software defined radio.
Noel E. Evans received a B.Sc. in 1973 and M.Sc. in 1974 from the Queen's University of Belfast, Northern Ireland, U.K. He obtained a Ph.D. from Queen's in 1977 for work on programmable transversal filters built using intracell charge-coupled devices. Following further research into narrow-gate CCDs at Queen's, he taught analogue electronics and communications at the University of Ulster from 1980 to 2006. Here he also developed research programs into biomedical instrumentation, human and animal physiological signal acquisition using radio frequency techniques, and electromagnetic wave propagation at frequencies extending across the HF-UHF bands. He now works as an independent consultant in the field of RF devices.
Andrew Fort was born in Ottawa, Canada, in 1975. He received his bachelor in computer engineering from the University of Victoria, Canada, in 1998. As a part of his cooperative study program, he worked at Sanyo Electric, Japan, developing hardware for digital cellular phones. After graduation, he worked at IVL Technologies, Victoria, designing DSP algorithms for pitch recognition of the human voice. He joined IMEC, Belgium, in January 2000 and was involved in the research and development of a wide range of communication systems including satellite, multiple antenna, and wireless local area networks. Since January 2004, he is conducting doctoral studies at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel on ultralow-power medical sensors and body area communication networks under the supervision of Professor Leo Van Biesen.
Katsuyuki Fujii was born in Chiba, Japan, in October 1978. He received B.E., M.E., and Ph.D. degrees in electronic engineering from Chiba University, Chiba, Japan, in 2001, 2003, and 2006, respectively. He is currently an assistant professor at Nanzan University, Japan. His main interest is evaluating the interaction between electromagnetic fields and the human body using numerical and experimental phantoms. He was the recipient of the 2008 IEEE Antennas and Propagation Society Japan Chapter Young Engineer Award. Dr. Fujii is a member of the IEEE, the IEICE of Japan, and the Institute of Image Information and Television Engineers of Japan (ITE).
Nozomi Haga was born in Yamagata, Japan, in January 1985. He received B.E., M.E., and D.E. degrees from Chiba University, Chiba, Japan, in 2007, 2009, and 2012, respectively. He is currently an assistant professor at Gunma University, Gunma, Japan. His main interests have been electrically small antennas and evaluation of body-centric wireless communication channels. He is a member of the Institute of Electrical, Information and Communication Engineers (IEICE), Japan.
Peter Hall is professor of communications engineering, leader of the Antennas and Applied Electromagnetics Laboratory, and head of the Devices and Systems Research Centre in the Department of Electronic, Electrical and Computer Engineering at The University of Birmingham. After graduating with a Ph.D. in antenna measurements from Sheffield University, he spent 3 years with Marconi Space and Defence Systems, Stanmore, working largely on a European communications satellite project. He then joined The Royal Military College of Science as a senior research scientist, progressing to reader in electromagnetics. He joined The University of Birmingham in 1994. He has researched extensively in the areas of antennas, propagation and antenna measurements. He has published f books, over 350 learned papers, and taken various patents. His publications have earned many awards, including the 1990 IEE Rayleigh Book Award for Handbook of Microstrip Antennas.
Professor Hall is a fellow of the IEE and the IEEE and a past IEEE Distinguished Lecturer. He is a past chairman of the IEE Antennas and Propagation Professional Group and past coordinator for Premium Awards for IEE Proceedings on Microwave, Antennas and Propagation. He is a member of the IEEE AP-S Fellow Evaluation Committee. He chaired the 1997 IEE ICAP conference, was vice chair of EuCAP 2008 and has been associated with the organization of many other international conferences. He was Honorary Editor of IEE Proceedings Part H from 1991 to 1995 and is currently on the editorial board of Microwave and Optical Technology Letters. He is a past member of the executive board of the EC Antenna Network of Excellence. In 2009, he received the LAPC IET James Roderick James Lifetime Achievement Award and in 2012 the IEEE AP-S John Kraus Award.
Yang Hao is a professor of antennas and electromagnetics at Queen Mary College, University of London. He is active in a number of areas including computational electromagnetics, electromagnetic bandgap structures and microwave metamaterials, antennas and radio propagation for body-centric wireless communications, active antennas for millimeter/submillimeter applications, and photonic integrated antennas. He is a coeditor and coauthor of the Artech books Antennas and Radio Propagation for Body-Centric Wireless Communications and FDTD Modeling of Metamaterials: Theory and Applications, 2006 and 2008, respectively.
Professor Hao is an associate editor for IEEE Antennas and Wireless Propagation Letters, IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, and International Journal of Antennas and Propagation. He was also a coguest editor for IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation. He is a vice chairman of the executive team of IET Antennas and Propagation Professional Network and a member of the New Emerging Technology Committee of the IEEE Antenna and Propagation Society. He is also a member of the Board of the European School of Antenna Excellence, a member of EU ASSIST Cost Action and the Virtual Institute for Artificial Electromagnetic Materials and Metamaterials, Metamorphose VI AISBL. He has served as an invited (ISAP07, LAPC07, IWAT08) and keynote speaker (ANTEM05, IWAT'10), a conference general chair (LAPC08, Metamaterials09), a session chair and short course organizer at many international conferences. Professor Hao was elected as a fellow of the ERA Foundation in 2007 and a fellow of IET in 2010.
Koichi Ito was born in Nagoya, Japan, and received B.S. and M.S. degrees from Chiba University, Chiba, Japan, in 1974 and 1976, respectively, and a D.E. degree from Tokyo Institute of Technology, Tokyo, Japan, in 1985, all in electrical engineering. From 1976 to 1979, he was a research associate at the Tokyo Institute of Technology. In 1979, he moved to Chiba University and is currently a professor in the Department of Medical System Engineering, Chiba University. From 2005 to 2009, he was deputy vice president for research, Chiba University. Since 2009, he has been appointed as director of research, Center for Frontier Medical Engineering, Chiba University.
His main research interests include analysis and design of printed antennas and small antennas for mobile communications, research on evaluation of the interaction between electromagnetic fields and the human body by use of numerical and experimental phantoms, microwave antennas for medical applications such as cancer treatment, and antenna systems for body-centric wireless communications.
Professor Ito is a fellow of the IEEE, a fellow of the IEICE, Japan, a member of the Bioelectromagnetics Society (BEMS), and the Japanese Society for Thermal Medicine. He served as chair of the Technical Committee on Human Phantoms for Electromagnetics, IEICE from 1998 to 2006, chair of the Technical Committee on Antennas and Propagation, IEICE from 2009 to 2011, chair of the IEEE AP-S Japan Chapter from 2001 to 2002, general chair of the 2008 IEEE International Workshop on Antenna Technology (iWAT2008), an AdCom member for the IEEE AP-S, an associate editor for the IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, and a distinguished lecturer for the IEEE AP-S. He currently serves as chair of the IEEE AP-S Committee on Man and Radiation (COMAR), a member of the board of directors, BEMS, and a councilor to the Asian Society of Hyperthermic Oncology (ASHO). He has been appointed as general chair of the 2012 International Symposium on Antennas and Propagation (ISAP2012) to be held in Nagoya, Japan. He has been elected as a delegate to the European Association on Antennas and Propagation (EurAAP).
Anders J. Johansson was born in Malmö, Sweden, in July 1968. He received masters, Lic. Eng., and Ph.D. degrees in electrical engineering from Lund University, Lund, Sweden, in 1993, 2000, and 2004, respectively. From 1994 to 1997, he was with Ericsson Mobile Communications AB developing transceivers and antennas for mobile phones. Since 2005, he has been an associate professor in the department of electroscience at Lund University. His research interests include antennas and wave propagation for medical implants as well as antenna systems and propagation modeling for MIMO systems. He is responsible for both the antenna measurement laboratory at the Department of Electroscience, and circuit theory education at the Computer Science and Engineering Masters program.
Kamilia Kamardin was born in 1982 in Johor, Malaysia. She received her B.Eng. electronic (communications) from the University of Sheffield, U.K., in 2004 and obtained her M.Sc. from Universiti Teknologi Mara (UiTM), Malaysia, in 2007. She had previously served as a senior assistant researcher at TM Research & Development, Malaysia, for 3 years. Currently, she is pursuing her Ph.D. in electrical engineering at Universiti Teknologi Malaysia (UTM). She spent 3 months at University of Birmingham, U.K., as a visiting Ph.D. student. Her current research interests include antennas, electromagnetic bandgap structures, metamaterials, and body-area communications.
Muhammad Ramlee Kamarudin obtained his first degree from Universiti Teknologi Malaysia (UTM), Malaysia, with honours, majoring in electrical and telecommunication engineering and graduating in 2003. He then joined UTM as a tutor at Wireless Communication Centre (WCC), Faculty of Electrical Engineering (FKE), UTM. He has been awarded a scholarship from the government of Malaysia to further study in the United Kingdom. He received an M.Sc. in communication engineering in 2004 from University of Birmingham, U.K. and was appointed as a lecturer in November 2004. He then obtained his Ph.D. in 2007 from University of Birmingham, U.K., under the supervision of Professor Peter Hall. Dr. Kamarudin is the author of a book chapter in the Artech book, Antennas and Propagation for Body-Centric Wireless Communications, and has been published in more than 25 technical journals, including IEEE Transaction on Antenna and Propagation, IEEE Antenna Magazine, Progress in Electromagnetics Research (PIER), Microwave and Optical Technology Letters (MOTL), Electronics Letters, and more than 50 technical conference papers on antennas performance and design for wireless applications, on-body communication systems, and antenna diversity. He is also a reviewer for IEEE Transaction on Antenna and Propagation, IEEE Antenna and Propagation, Progress in Electromagnetics Research (PIER), IET Microwaves, Antenna and Propagation, Electronics Letters, Elektrika Journal (UTM), and national and international conferences such as Asia Pasific Microwave Conference (APMC), International Symposium on Antenna and Propagation (ISAP), and Asia Modeling Symposium. His research interests include antenna design for wireless on-body communications, in-body communications (implantable antennas), RF and microwave communication systems, antenna diversity and reconfigurable, and antenna for cognitive radio system. Currently, Dr. Kamarudin is a member of IEEE, an executive member of Antenna and Propagation (AP/MTT/EMC) Malaysia Chapter, a member of GOLD IEEE Malaysia, a senior lecturer for the Wireless Communication Centre (WCC), and supervises a number of Ph.D., masters, and undergraduate students.
Anders Karlsson was born in 1955 in Gothenburg, Sweden. He received M.Sc. and Ph.D. degrees from Chalmers University of Technology, Gothenburg, Sweden, in 1979 and 1984, respectively. Since 2000 he has been a professor in the Department of Electroscience at the Lund University, Lund, Sweden. His research activities include scattering and propagation of waves, inverse problems and time-domain methods. Currently, he is involved in projects concerning propagation of light in blood, wireless communication with implants, and design of passive components on silicon.
Hiroki Kawai was born in Chiba, Japan, on March 1977. He received B.E., M.E., and D.E. degrees in electrical engineering from Chiba University, Chiba, Japan, in 1999, 2001, and 2005 respectively. From 2005 to 2011, he was an expert researcher with National Institute of Information and Communications Technology (NICT), Japan. He is currently a researcher with IHI Co., Ltd., Japan. His main interests include nondestructive inspection using the eddy current testing and research on evaluation of the interaction between electromagnetic fields and the human body using numerical and experimental phantoms. Dr. Kawai is a member of the Japanese Society for Non-Destructive Inspection (JSNDI), the Institute of Electrical, Information and Communication Engineers (IEICE), Japan, and the IEEE.
Maciej Klemm (M.Sc., Ph.D., MIEEE) was born in 1978. He received his M.Sc. degree in microwave engineering from Gdansk University of Technology, Poland, in 2002. In February 2003, he joined the Electronics Laboratory, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETH) Zurich, Switzerland, from where he earned his Ph.D. in 2006. Currently he is a postdoctoral researcher at the University of Bristol, U.K. His current research interests focus on the development of UWB radar for breast cancer detection, small UWB antennas and UWB communications, antenna interactions with a human body, and electromagnetic simulations.
István Z. Kovács (M.Sc.E.E., Ph.D., MIEEE) received his B.Sc. from "Politehnica" Technical University of Timisoara, Romania, in 1989, his M.Sc.E.E. from The Franco-Polish School of New Information and Communication Technologies/Ecole Nationale Supérieure des Télécommunications de Bretagne, Poland/France in 1996, and his Ph.D.E.E. in wireless communications from Aalborg University, Denmark, in 2002. From 2002 to August 2005, he held the position of assistant research professor with Center for TeleInFrastruktur, Department of Communication Technology of Aalborg University in the antennas and propagation division. His research interests are in the field of radio channel propagation measurements and modeling, with a major focus on short-range ultrawideband radio channel and ultrawideband antenna investigations. He was actively involved in the European IST PACWOMAN and IST MAGNET projects and participated in several industrial projects with partners such as TeleDanmark, Motorola, IOSpan, and Array-Comm. He has made a number of paper contributions and has contributed to book chapters on UWB propagation topics. Currently, he is a wireless networks specialist in Network Systems Research/Nokia Networks, Aalborg, Denmark, conducting research in the area of 3G/3.9G wireless networks.
Dr Yuriy I. Nechayev graduated from the Kharkiv State University (Ukraine) with a diploma of specialist in physics in 1996. He received his Ph.D. in electronic and electrical engineering from the University of Birmingham (U.K.) in 2005. Since 2003 he has been with the University of Birmingham as a research associate, and later as a research fellow, carrying out research on radiowave propagation around the human body and wearable antennas. He has authored and coauthored one book section and over 60 papers in technical journals and international conferences. He also has served as a reviewer for a number of journals. His research interests include radiowave propagation, antennas, electromagnetics, diffraction and scattering, and propagation in random media.
Professor Clive Parini (FREng.) is professor of antenna engineering and heads the Antenna & Electromagnetics Research Group. He has published over 300 papers on research topics including array mutual coupling, array beamforming, antenna metrology, microstrip antennas, millimeter wave compact antenna test ranges, millimeter wave integrated antennas, metamaterials, and on-body communications. In 1990, he was one of three coworkers to receive the IEE Measurements Prize for work on near field-reflector metrology. In 2002, along with several coworkers, he was awarded the BAE SYSTEMS Chairman's Bronze Award for Innovation for work on microwave near-field metrology. In 2008 he coauthored the book Principles of Planar Near-Field Antenna Measurements.
He is a fellow of the IET and a member and past chairman of the IET Antennas & Propagation Professional Network Executive Team. He is a member of the editorial board and past honorary editor for the IET journal Microwaves, Antennas & Propagation. In 2009 he was elected a fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering. He is currently the director of research for the School of Electronic Engineering & Computer Science.
Gert Frølund Pedersen (M.Sc.E.E., Ph.D., MIEEE) was born in 1965. He received a B.Sc.E.E. with honors in electrical engineering from the College of Technology in Dublin, Ireland, and an M.Sc.E.E. and Ph.D. from Aalborg University in 1993 and 2003, respectively. He has been employed by Aalborg University since 1993, where he currently is working as a professor for the Antenna & Propagation group. His research has focused on radio communication for mobile terminals including small antennas, antenna-systems, propagation, and biological effects. He has also worked as consultant for development of antennas for mobile terminals including the first internal antenna for mobile phones in 1994 with very low SAR, the first internal triple-band antenna in 1998 with low SAR, and high efficiency and various antenna diversity systems rated as the most efficient on the market. Recently he has been involved in establishing a method to measure the communication performance for mobile terminals that can be used as a basis for a 3G standard where measurements also including the antenna will be needed. He is also involved in small terminals for 4G including several antennas (MIMO systems) and ultrawideband antennas to enhance the data communication.
Yahya Rahmat-Samii, Distinguished Professor of Electrical Engineering, and Northrop-Grumman Chair in electromagnetics, is a member of the U.S. National Academy of Engineering (NAE) and the former chairman of the Electrical Engineering Department at the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA). Before joining UCLA, he was a senior research scientist at Caltech/NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL). He became a fellow of IEEE in 1985, and was elected as the president of IEEE Antennas and Propagation Society (AP-S) in 1995. He currently serves as the chairman of the U.S. National Committee of URSI. Prof. Rahmat-Samii's dedication to research and teaching has resulted in more than 800 technical journal articles and conference papers, more than 30 book chapters and four books. He has had pioneering research contributions in diverse areas of electromagnetics, antennas, measurement and diagnostics techniques, numerical and asymptotic methods, satellite and personal communications, human/antenna interactions, planetary and remote sensing missions, biotelemetry and medical devices frequency selective surfaces, and electromagnetic bandgap structures, applications of the genetic algorithms and particle swarm optimization (visit http://www.antlab.ee.ucla.edu). Prof. Rahmat-Samii has been appointed an IEEE Distinguished Lecturer for the second time, presenting lectures internationally. Prof. Rahmat-Samii has received numerous awards, including the 1992 and 1995 Wheeler Best Application Prize Paper Award for his papers published in IEEE Antennas and Propagation Transactions, 1999 University of Illinois ECE Distinguished Alumni Award, IEEE Third Millennium Medal, and AMTA'2000 Distinguished Achievement Award. In 2001, he was the recipient of an honorary doctorate in physics from the University of Santiago de Compostela, Spain. In 2001, he was elected as a foreign member of the Royal Flemish Academy of Belgium for Science and the Arts. In 2002, he received the Technical Excellence Award from JPL and in 2005 he was the recipient of the URSI Booker Gold Medal. He is the recipient of the 2007 Chen-To Tai Distinguished Educator Award of the IEEE Antennas and Propagation Society and in the same year elected as Edmond S. Gillespie Fellow of Antenna Measurement Techniques Association. In 2009, he received the IEEE Antennas and Propagation society Distinguished Achievement Award. In 2010, he was the recipient of the Lockheed Martin Excellence in Teaching Award from The Henry Samueli School of Engineering and Applied Science, UCLA. In 2011, he received UCLA's highest teaching award, the Distinguished Teaching Award, and the IEEE Electromagnetics Award. Prof. Rahmat-Samii is the designer of the IEEE AP-S logo that is displayed on all IEEE AP-S publications.
Tareq Salim (MIEEE, MIEE, MSIAM) was born in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, in 1979. He received a B.Sc. in communication and electronic engineering from Applied Science University, Jordan, in 2002 and an M.Sc. in communication engineering systems from University of Birmingham, U.K., in 2003. He is currently working to finish his Ph.D. at University of Birmingham. Tareq's research interests include wave propagation in layered medium with singularities, numerical analysis and integration, wave scattering, inverse scattering problems and statistical EM, applied numerical methods for EM (FDTD & FEM), parallel computation methods with FDTD-MPI or mass-matrix FEM, hybrid multipole numerical method with uniform theory of geometrical diffraction method (UTD), antenna measurements and design, genetic algorithms, object oriented programming, theoretical and analytical methods in EM, and EBG materials.
Pekka Salonen (M.Sc.E.E., Dr. Tech., MIEEE) was born in Helsinki, Finland, in 1973. He received M.Sc. (Tech.) and Dr. (Tech.) degrees from Tampere University of Technology (TUT), Tampere, Finland, in 1997 and 2001, respectively, both in electrical engineering. He was a research doctor with Institute of Electronics, (TUT), during 2002-2003 and a visiting postdoctoral researcher with ARAM laboratory, University of California, Los Angeles, California, during 2003-2004 under the supervision of Prof. Yahya Rahmat-Samii. From 2004 to 2011 he was with Patria in various R&D positions. He had a leading role in developing textile antennas for satellite communications ground systems such as Iridium, GPS, Galileo, and Cospas-Sarsat. Dr. Salonen is currently with Nokia with Windows Phone Engineering. His research interests include wearable and textile antennas, novel soft materials for antennas and microwave components, adaptive antennas, antenna and RF systems for radar and EW systems, human/antenna interaction, handset antennas, applied electromagnetics for HPM, EMP, ECM and ECCM techniques, and bioelectromagnetism. Dr. Salonen has made pioneering research contributions in the fields of wearable and textile antennas, RFID antennas and systems, and local area network antennas.
William G. Scanlon received a B.Eng. in electrical engineering (first-class honors) by part-time study and a Ph.D. in electronics (specializing in wearable and implanted antennas) from the University of Ulster, U.K., in 1994 and 1997, respectively. He was appointed as lecturer at the University of Ulster in 1998, and senior lecturer and full professor at Queen's University of Belfast (U.K.) in 2002 and 2008, respectively. He is currently director of research for the Digital Communications Cluster at Queen's and he holds a part-time chair in short range radio at the University of Twente, The Netherlands. Prior to starting his academic career he had 10 years of industrial experience, having worked as a senior RF engineer for Nortel Networks, a project engineer with Siemens, and a lighting engineer with GEC-Osram. His current research interests include personal and body-centric communications, wearable antennas, RF and microwave propagation, channel modeling and characterization, and wireless networking and protocols and wireless networked control systems. He has published over 190 technical papers in major IEEE/IET journals and in refereed international conferences. He served as keynote speaker for the NATO Military Communications and Information Systems Conference (2010), the International Conference on Bodynets (2010), and the European Workshop on Conformal Antennas (2007). He also cochaired the 2009 Loughborough Antennas and Propagation Conference and has acted as invited speaker and session chair at numerous other national and international conferences. Prof. Scanlon received a Young Scientist award from URSI in 1999, was a recipient of the 2010 IEEE H. A. Wheeler Prize Paper Award, and is also a prolific reviewer for IEEE/IET journals and major conferences. He was a founding director of WirelessLAB (Ireland) and is currently a founding director and chief scientist of ACT Wireless Limited, and he is a member of the IEEE International Committee on Electromagnetic Safety (ICES) and the IASTED International Committee on Telecommunications.
Rainee N. Simons (S'76-M'80-SM'89-F'00) received a B.S. in electronics and communications engineering from the Mysore University, Mysore, India, in 1972, an M.Tech. in electronics and communications engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur, India, in 1974 and a Ph.D. in electrical engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), New Delhi, India in 1983. In 1979, he began his career as a senior scientific officer with IIT, where he was involved with finline components for millimeter-wave applications and X-Band toroidal latching ferrite phase shifters for phased arrays. Since 1985 he has been with the Communications Technology Division (CTD), NASA Glenn Research Center (GRC), Cleveland, Ohio, where he is currently the chief of the Electron Device Technology Branch. While with NASA GRC, he has been involved with optical control of MESFET and high electron-mobility transistor (HEMT) devices, high temperature superconductivity, modeling of coplanar waveguide/stripline (CPW/CPS) discontinuities, CPW feed systems for printed antennas, linearly tapered slot arrays, packaging of monolithic microwave integrated circuits (MMICs), silicon carbide (SiC) diode mixers, RF microelectromechanical systems (MEMS), and GaN solid-state power amplifiers. He is currently involved in the area of high efficiency space traveling wave tube (TWT) power combiners for communications from near-Earth as well as deep space. He has authored or coauthored over 130 publications in refereed journals and international symposium proceedings. He authored Optical Control of Microwave Devices (Artech House, 1990) and Coplanar Waveguide Circuits, Components, and Systems. He also authored the chapters "High Temperature Superconducting Coplanar Waveguide Microwave Circuits and Antennas," which appeared in Advances in High-Tc Superconductors, and coauthored the chapter "Tapered Slot Antenna," which appeared in Advances in Microstrip and Printed Antennas. He holds three U.S. patents. Dr. Simons has organized workshops, chaired sessions, and served on the technical program committees of several IEEE International Symposiums. He is a member of the editorial board of IEEE Transactions on Microwave Theory and Techniques and an associate editor of IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation. He was the recipient of the Distinguished Alumni Award and is a recipient of over seventeen NASA Tech Brief Awards. He was also a recipient of the NASA Public Service Medal in 2001 for pioneering research and development of microwave printed antennas and distribution media. He is a fellow of the IEEE.
Masaharu Takahashi was born in Chiba, Japan, on December 15, 1965. He received a B.S. in electrical engineering from Tohoku University, Tohoku, Japan, in 1989, and an M.S. and Ph.D. from the Tokyo Institute of Technology, Tokyo, Japan, in 1991 and 1994, respectively. From 1994 to 1996, he was a research associate; from 1996 to 2000, he was an assistant professor at Musashi Institute of Technology, Tokyo, Japan; and from 2000 to 2004, he was an associate professor at Tokyo University of Agriculture and Technology, Tokyo, Japan. He is currently an associate professor at Chiba University, Chiba, Japan. His research interests include electrically small antennas, planar array antennas, evaluation of the interaction between electromagnetic fields and the human body by use of numerical and experimental phantoms, and electromagnetic compatibility. Dr. Takahashi was the recipient of the 1994 IEEE Antennas and Propagation Society Tokyo Chapter Young Engineer Award. He is a senior member of the IEEE.










 
Index

A
Amplitude cumulative density functions, 185
Antenna design, 87-103
antenna-to-surface wave coupling, 93-101
body-sensor networks, 275
match and efficiency, 101-3
performance comparison, 87-103
structures, 96
Antennas
attenuation, 97
beam-switching, 94
body-sensor, 275-88
chest-mounted, 302
circumference, 349-50
curved surface performance, 98
de-embedding, 12, 67-70
for derivation of statical models, 78
dipole, 89, 345
diversity, 103-4
dual-band button, 93
efficiency, 110-12
electric field variation versus distance, 100, 101
electric field variation versus distance for TM mode excitation, 97
external pick-up, 275
field amplitude, 97
free-space performance, 88
gain and efficiency, 90
on half cylinder, 99
horn shaped self-complementary (HSCAs), 183
integrated inductor, 273
inverted-F (IFA), 96, 350
inverted L, 89
ISM, 261
loop, 88, 89
in lossy dispersive medium, 328-39
low-profile, for implantable medical devices, 339-54
measurement instrument connection, 65-67
microstrip patch, 91
monopole, 88, 89, 91
multiple, systems, 103-5
numerical modeling techniques, 29-50
parasitic L, 89
performance, 361
personal telemedicine, 300-314
placement, in measurement, 64
planar inverted-F (PIFA), 88, 96, 101-2, 213-14, 350-52
size and performance, 90
SoftWear, 211
surface wave Yagi, 95
textile, 211
UWB, 140-60
wearable, 209-63
wiggle, 89
Antenna-to-surface wave coupling, 93-101
Applications
body-centric communications systems, 362-63
overview of, 11
personal telemedicine antenna, 313
summary, 12
telemedicine/telecare, 293-300
UWB antenna, 143-48
Arm models, wearing transmitter, 122-23
Arm motions
influence of, 187-88
mean path loss due to, 188
Around-torso channel, 76
Average fade duration (AFD), 82
B
Battlefield sensors, 289
Beam-switching patch antenna, 94
Belt-to-head channel, 80
short-term/long-term fading, 77
time during walking movement, 80
XPD values, 86
Belt-to-right-head channel, 82
Belt-to-wrist channel, 78, 81
Biomedical RF telemetry, 272-75
Bit error ratios (BER), 105
for on-body receivers, 203
calculation, 198
for off-body receivers, 203
performance comparison, 201, 203
variations by location, 200
Bluetooth, 9-10
Body area networks (BANs), 1
antenna radiation patterns, 175
arm motion influence, 187-88
average power delay profile, 185-87
on-body path loss, 183
body-worn scenarios for, 170
channel modeling, 192-95
content of, 4
cumulative density functions, 194
far field path loss, 183
high frequency, 359
impulse response, 185-87
indoor environment influence, 188-92
measurement methods, 64-70
medical, 318
millimetric frequencies, 361
office type radio environment, 171
path loss, 181-84
propagation around body, 181-87
RMS delay spread, 185, 187, 192
scenarios, 180-95
time-delay channel parameters, 191, 193-94
in wearable computer system, 63
Body-centric channel measurement, 71-87
channel polarization effects, 84-87
channel statistics, 76-84
path gain, 71-76
Body-centric communications systems
applications, 362-63
applications summary, 12
defined, 1-4
directional slot antenna, 155
introduction to, 1-15
medical implants, 4
narrowband, 8-10
numerical modeling techniques, 29-50
overview, 8-10
technology summary, 8
UWB technology for, 139-204
wideband, 10
Body-Centric Wireless Sensor Lab, 172
Body dynamics, modeling, 13
Body-proximity induced radiation characteristics, 153-58
defined, 153
truncated models, 154
Body-sensor antennas
design, 275-88
for external handheld devices, 285-88
external pick-up, 275
implantable, 276-85
integrated inductor, 273-75
loop, 286-88
miniature loop, 277-81
miniature spiral, 281-85
Body-sensor networks, 271-90
antenna design, 275
applications, 273
battlefield sensors, 290
biomedical RF telemetry, 272-75
dimensions, 273
elements of, 272
external pick-up antenna, 275
hospitals, 290
implantable power, 273
implantable pressure sensor, 273
introduction to, 271-72
link distance, 273
MMIC amplifier integration, 271-72
operating frequency, 273
smart homes, 290
for space environment, 289
Body-shadowing effect, 310
C
Calculation model
arm wearing the transmitter, 125
dominant signal transmission path, 131-34
illustrated, 116
of transmitter, 121
See also Human body transmission
Capacitive pressure sensors, 273, 275
Channel characterization (UWB), 173-202
general aspects, 173-75
main channel parameters, 173
PAN scenarios, 175-80
Channel modeling
body area networks (BANs), 192-95
UWB BAN propagation channel, 193
Channel performance, 362
Channel polarization effects, 84-87
Channel sampling rate, 176
Channel statistics, 76-84
around-torso channel, 76
belt-to-head channel, 77, 80
belt-to-right-head channel, 83
belt-to-wrist channel, 78, 81
Chest-mounted antennas, 312
Circumference antennas
CAD model, 350
defined, 349
PIFA, 350
shape conformance, 349
See also Implanted antennas
CLEAN algorithm, 174
Coil antennas, 352-53
defined, 352
as inductive at low frequencies, 352
self-resonance frequencies, 352-53
See also Implanted antennas
Communications
on-body, 6
with circuits in direct contact with human body, 113-20
to medical implants, 6-7
off- to on-body, 5-6
Conductive materials
antenna parameters and, 231
beamwidth and, 233
copper tape, 228
effect of, 228-33
radiation patterns, 231, 232, 233
return loss, 228-29, 230
See also Textile materials; Wearable antennas
Conformal FDTD modeling
of on-body radio propagation, 37-40
GUI for, 40
software, 39
Cordura, 219-20, 221, 222
COSPAS-SARSAT transmitters, 209, 210
Coupled integral equation (CIE) approach, 32
Creeping wave parameters, 100, 101
Cross-polarization discrimination (XPD), 84-85
for body channels, 87
defined, 84-85
loop-monopole antenna for, 86
measurement of, 85
pairs, separation of, 86
visualizations, 85
CST Microwave Studio simulations, 32-33, 41
Current Strip Approximation (CSA) expression, 283
D
Data Fitted Monomial (DFM) expression, 284
De-embedding, antenna, 12, 67-70
demonstration of, 69
transmission channel path gain, 68
Depolarization, 84
Destructive antenna tests, 256-61
damages, 259-60
defined, 257
fire arms resistance test, 257-61
flexibility and, 256-57
ISM antenna after, 262
return loss, 260, 261
scattering diagram, 258
specifications, 257
test setup, 257-58
visual inspection, 258-59
See also Wearable antennas
Dielectric resonators (DRAs), 212
Dipole antennas
electric-to-magnetic power ratio, 346
illustrated, 89
partial waves, 345
Directional slot antennas, 146-48
in body-centric scenarios, 146
geometry, 146-47
human body proximity and, 155
impedance bandwidth, 155
low-profile, 147
return loss, 148
transfer function, 148
See also UWB antennas
Dispersive FDTD method, 42-47
defined, 42
subband, 44-47
Diversity
antenna, 103-4
dual-pattern, 104
gain and efficiency, 103, 104
Dominant signal transmission path, 131-35
calculation model, 131-34
electric field distributions, 134-35
received signal voltages, 134-35
Dual-band button antennas, 93
Dual channel electrocardiogram/temperature biotelemeter, 289
Dynamic body effects modeling, 50-54
animated model creation, 51
antenna position, 50-51
frame example, 52-53
human body surface scanning, 50
human movement capture, 50-51
measurements and model variation, 52-54
methodology, 50-52
movement capture frame by frame, 52
Dynamic phantoms, 26-27
E
Effective electrode structure, 123-25
Electric field distributions
dominant signal transmission path, 134-35
inside/outside arm, 126-28
inside/outside arm wearing transmitter and receiver, 132-33
Electric fields
instantaneous, 347-48
strength dependence on layer thickness, 336
Electromagnetic band-gap (EBG), 237
antenna bending, 245
antenna performance, 244
electric near field distribution due to, 251
mushrooms, 238, 239
radiation efficiency, 246
Environment (wearable antenna), 250-61
bending and physical abrasions, 251
destructive tests, 256-61
frozen antenna, 254
ice effect, 253
Iridium tests, 255
return loss, 254, 255
snow effect, 255
test campaign, 252
test example, 255-56
water effect, 252-53
Environmental performance (wearable antenna), 251
Equal gain combining (EGC), 103
Equivalence principle, 41-42
Equivalent isotropic radiated power (EIRP), 327-28
Equivalent radiated power (ERP), 327
F
Fabric-based vest antennas, 214
Fading
autocorrelation, 84
characteristics, 83
cross-correlation, 84
large-scale, 176-78, 189-90
long-term, 77, 78
short-term, 77, 78
signal cluster factors, 189
slow, 76
small-scale, 176-78, 189-90
Finite-difference time-domain (FDTD), 30, 31, 34-36
absorbing boundary, 133
bilateral dual-grid technique, 35
calculation model, 121
conformal modeling of on-body radio propagation, 37-40
defined, 34
dispersive method, 42-47
equivalence principle, 41-42
locally distorted, non-orthogonal (LNFDTD), 37, 39
mesh model, 34
non-orthogonal (NFDTD), 37
one-dimensional simulations, 334-37
spatial discretization, 41
subband method, 44-47
three-dimensional technique, 35
UTD, 30
in UWB propagation analysis, 161
weaknesses, 35
See also Numerical modeling techniques
Finite element method (FEM), 33-34
defined, 33
in EF-IBC channel modeling, 34
in elelectromagnetic structure modeling, 33, 34
Full mobility telemedicine systems, 297
G
Gain
low-profile implantable antennas, 342
path, 71-76
personal telemedicine antennas, 303, 313
Gel phantoms
advantages/disadvantages, 359
defined, 22
See also Phantoms
Geometrical theory of diffraction (GTD), 30
GPS antennas
examples of, 223
geometry, 222
performance, 224-27
return loss, 225
as RF preamplifier source, 223
H
Handheld devices, antennas for, 285-88
Home-based telemedicine technologies, 297
Horn shaped self-complementary antennas (HSCAs), 183
Hospitals, sensors in, 290
HUGO human model, 41
Human body
effect on electromagnetic field, 301
interaction in personal telemedicine, 300-314
surface, scanning, 50
Human body transmission, 113-35
arm, 114
arm models wearing transmitter, 122-23
calculation model, 116
characteristics, 113
computational parameters, 116
conclusions, 135
dominant signal path, 131-35
effective electrode structure, 123-25
electric field distributions in/around the arm, 126-28
estimated input power, 117
experiments with phantoms, 125-31
frequency ranges, 116
model for assessments, 125-26
numerical analysis, 120-25
received open voltages, 117
received signal voltage of receiver, 128-31
whole body models, 120-22
Human tissues
data, 330
dielectric constant and conductivity parameters, 19
electrical characteristics, 20
electromagnetic characteristics of, 17-18
penetration depth, 18, 21
properties, 20
simulated, 330-31
Human-torso phantom, 23-24
I
IEEE 802.15 Task Group 6, 14
Impedance matching, 118
Implantable antennas, 276-85
miniature loop, 277-81
miniature spiral, 281-85
summary, 277
Implantable pressure sensors, 273
Implanted antennas
circumference, 349-50
coil, 352-53
defined, 341
dependence on insulation thickness, 353
design challenges, 362
designs, 347-53
efficiency calculations in matter, 341-43
efficiency measurement in homogeneous medium, 343
electric versus magnetic, 343-47
electromagnetic properties, 329
far-field amplitude, 342
gain, 342
influence of patient, 337-38
loss due to conductivity, 330
in lossy dispersive medium, 328-39
low-profile, 328-39
material data and measurements, 330-31
matter, 329-30
microstrip, 350-52
normalized power pattern, 341
patch, 352
permittivity, 329
phantom influence on, 338-39
phantoms, 331-34
practical design experiments, 355
SAR, 353-54
simulated tissues, 330-31
skin depth, 334
tissue data, 330
wave propagation, 334-37
wire, 347-49
Indoor environment
average PDP example, 190
influence of, 188-92
large-scale fading, 189-90
power delay profile, 190-92
small-scale fading, 189-90
Inductive coupling, 326-27
Ingested wireless devices (IWDs), 36
Insulation thickness, 353
Inter-BAN interference, 318-19
Inverted F antennas (IFA), 96, 350
Inverted L antennas, 89
ISM band, 9-10
antennas, 261, 262
in medical implant communication, 328
L
Layout, this book, 14-15
Level crossing rate (LCR), 80, 82
Linphotonic optical receiver, 66
Liquid phantoms
advantages/disadvantages, 359
defined, 21-22
See also Phantoms
Locally distorted, non-orthogonal FDTD (LN-FDTD), 37, 39
Long-term fading
belt-to-head channel, 77
belt-to-wrist channel, 78
range of standard deviations, 79
Loop antennas
circular, 89
for external handheld devices, 286-88
omnidirectional patterns, 88
personal telemedicine, 303-7
Low-profile implantable antennas, 339-54
circumference, 349-50
coil, 352-53
defined, 341
dependence on insulation thickness, 353
designs, 347-53
efficiency calculations in matter, 341-43
efficiency measurement in homogeneous medium, 343
electric versus magnetic, 343-47
far-field amplitude, 342
gain, 342
microstrip, 350-52
normalized power pattern, 341
patch, 352
SAR, 353-54
wire, 347-49
M
Magnetic fields, 337
Materials, 13
Maximal-ratio combining (MRC), 103
Measurement, 64-65
body-centric channel, 71-87
errors, 64-65
instrument/antenna connection, 65-67
ISM frequency band, 71
with VNA and cables, 65
Measurement methods, 12, 64-70
antenna de-embedding, 67-70
antenna placement, 64
challenges, 64
factors, 64
optical fiber-based system, 66
Medical data service (MEDS), 297-98
Medical Implant Communication System (MICS), 9
ETSI, 327-28
standard, 327-28
Medical implants, 4, 325-55
antennas in lossy dispersive medium, 328-39
communications to, 6-7
conclusions, 355
higher carrier frequency, 326
inductive coupling, 326-27
introduction to, 325-28
low-profile antennas, 339-54
MICS standard, 327-28
need for, 325
patient influence on antenna, 337-38
phantom influence on antenna, 338-39
RF link, 333-34
specifications, 333
technology challenges, 7
2.4-GHz ISM band, 328
Medtronic MiniMed Paradigm REAL-Time Revel System, 4
Metal composite embroidery yarn (MCEY), 211
Meteorological Aids Service (METAIDS), 328
Method of moments (MoM), 32-33
Microelectromechanical systems (MEMS), 6
Microstrip patch antennas, 91
Microstrip PIFA antennas, 350-52
defined, 350
drawback, 350-51
illustrated, 351
simulations, 352
See also Implanted antennas
Microwave band, 362
Miniature loops
circular, 278, 281
inductive reactance, 280
input impedance, 280
input impedance resonance, 281
lumped equivalent circuit model, 281
radiation resistance, 279
See also Body-sensor antennas
Miniature spiral
Current strip approximation (CSA), 283
data fitted monomial (DFM), 284
defined, 281-82
illustrated, 282
Modified Wheeler (MW), 283
specifications, 282
See also Body-sensor antennas
Miteq optical transmitter, 66
Modified Wheeler (MW) expression, 283
Monopole antennas
on body phantom, 103
disc-loaded, reduced height, 91
efficiency, 101-2
far-field free-space radiation patterns, 150-52
illustrated, 89
omnidirectional patterns, 88
planar UWB disk, 144
quarter-wavelength, 88
UWB, 149
with vertical conductors, 88
Movement capture
antenna position and, 50-51
frame by frame, 52
Multiband UWB OFDM
BER calculation, 197
on-body system-level modeling, 198-200
off-body system-level modeling, 200-202
performance evaluation, 195-202
specifications, 197
system-level model, 197-98
system modeling, 195-202
Multicarrier UWB (MC-UWB), 195
Multipath components (MPCs), 174
Multipath propagation
defined, 69
UWB, 173
Multiple antenna systems, 103-5
antenna diversity, 103-4
interference cancellation, 105
MIMO, 104-5
Multiple input multiple output (MIMO), 361
antenna systems, 310
signal processing, 104
N
Narrowband systems
implant and telemetry bands, 9
ISM, Bluetooth, and WLAN, 9-10
UHF/VHF bands, 8
Non-orthogonal FDTD (NFDTD) algorithms, 37
Numerical modeling techniques, 29-50
on-body radio channel, 36-50
finite-difference time-domain (FDTD), 34-36
finite element method (FEM), 33-34
introduction to, 29-36
method of moments (MoM), 32-33
ray-tracing, 31-32
uniform theory of diffraction (UTD), 30-31
Numerical phantoms, 27-29
defined, 27
theoretical, 27-28
voxel, 28-29
O
Off-body channel measurement, 54
Off-body radio link classification, 202
Off-body system-level modeling, 200-202
Off- to on-body communications, 5-6
On-body communications, 6
On-body fading characteristics, 83
On-body radio channel modeling, 36-50
conformal FDTD, 37
equivalence principle implementation, 41-42
homogeneous versus inhomogeneous phantoms, 36-37
subject-specific, 47-50
techniques, 36
UWB dispersive FDTD method, 42-47
See also Numerical modeling techniques
On-body radio link
classification, 201
quality, 199
On-body system-level modeling, 198-200
Outdoor localization, 298
P
PAN with mobile devices (PAN-MD)
antennal elements horizontal orientation, 174
channel model parameters, 179
characteristic analysis, 176
defined, 168
handset scenarios, 169
signal clusters, 175
wideband power autocorrelation functions, 176, 177
Parasitic L antennas, 89
Patch antennas
beam-switching, 94
implanted, 352
microstrip, 91
U-slot, 233-37
Path gain, 71-76
antenna positions and, 74
on-body variation, 72
distance versus, 74
variation types, 72
Path loss
on-body, 183
body area networks (BANs), 181-84
distance versus, 75, 182
far field, 183
frequency versus, 75
for horn shaped self-complementary antenna (HSCA), 183
mean, 184, 188
measured around body, 75
model parameters, 184
signal amplitude distribution, 184
variation model, 73
Patient localization, 298
Patient monitoring
physiological signals, 295
signal parameters, 296
Personal area networks (PANs)
content of, 4
large-scale fading, 176-78
with mobile devices (PAN-MD), 168, 169
mobile-to-mobile scenarios, 168
office type radio environment, 171
power delay profile, 178-79
scenarios, 175-80
small-scale fading, 176-78
test users in, 169
time/space variant channel modeling, 179-80
wireless (WPANs), 317
Personal telemedicine antennas
antenna-body separation, 305
antennas, 300-314
azimuthal patterns, 304
azimuthal radiation patterns, 308, 310
body effects (< 1GHz), 303-7
body effects (> 1GHz), 307-10
body-induced gain, 303
body-shadowing effect, 310
calculated radiation patterns, 309
cellular, 310
chest-mounted, 302
emerging antennas, 310-14
loop (418 MHz), 303-6
loop (916 MHz), 306-7
performance variation, 306
plane conductor model, 302
propagating field pattern, 312
radiation efficiency, 305
radiation patterns, 307
simulated and measure path gain comparison, 313
UWB applications, 313
Phantoms
articulated, 359-60
classification of, 21
defined, 18
dynamic, 26-27
homogenous, 36-37
human body transmission experiments with, 125-31
implanted antennas, 331-34
influence on antennas, 338-39
inhomogeneous, 36-37
liquid, 21-22, 359
MICS, 333
numerical, 27-29
physical body, 18-27
semisolid (gel), 22
simple, 333
in simulations, 332
solid (dry), 22-23, 25, 26
in study of radiowave propagation, 21
theoretical, 27-28
variations, 50
voxel, 28-29, 360
Physical body phantoms, 18-27
dynamic, 26-27
examples of, 23-27
human-torso phantom, 23-24
liquid, 21-22
Rubber Phantom, 25, 26
semisolid (gel), 22
solid (dry), 22-23, 25, 26
UWB, 24-25
whole body, 24
Planar inverted-F antennas (PIFA), 88, 96
circumference, 350
dual-band Sierpinkski fractal, 213
efficiency, 101-2
microstrip, 350-52
Shieldlt prototypes, 214
textile, 216
Planar UWB disc monopole antenna, 144, 145
Power delay profile, 178-79
average, 185-87
indoor environment, 190-92
measured average channel example, 178
telemedicine/telecare, 316
time-delay parameters, 179
Propagation
on-body radio, conformal FDTD modeling of, 37-40
channel components, 70
channels, measured, 77
characterization and control, 11-12
indoor environment, 314
multipath, 69
numerical modeling techniques, 29-50
telemedicine/telecare, 315
theory, 315
R
Radiation patterns
BAN, 175
conductive materials, 231, 232, 233
E-plane, 92
far-field free-space, 150-52
personal telemedicine antennas, 307, 308, 309
substrate materials, 226, 227
textile WLAN antenna, 248, 249
U-slot dual-frequency antenna, 236, 237
UWB, 150-52
WEBGA, 239, 241, 242, 243
Radio frequency identification (RFID), 214, 298
Radio frequency interference, 318-19
RAKE fingers, 193
Ray-tracing techniques, 31-32
Received signal voltage, 128-31
dominant signal transmission path, 134-35
as function of gap, 134
illustrated, 131
measurement conditions, 130
Receivers
on-body, 203
off-body, 203
received signal voltage of, 128-31
structure of, 129
RMS delay spread, 180
BAN scenarios, 185, 187, 192
distribution, 194
Rubber Phantom, 25, 26
S
Saleh-Valenzuela UWB channel model, 173
Scanning, human body surface, 50
Selective combining (SC), 103
Semisolid (gel) phantoms
advantages/disadvantages, 359
defined, 22
See also Phantoms
Sensor networks, 6-7
Sensor patches, physiological monitoring, 289
Sensor pills, physiological monitoring, 289
Sensors
battlefield, 290
in hospitals and smart homes, 290
for space environment, 289
Shooting and bouncing rays (SBR), 31
Short-term fading
belt-to-head channel, 77
belt-to-wrist channel, 78
Simulink MATLAB, 197
Single input single output (SISO), 105
Skin depth, 334
Slot antennas, 144-46
defined, 144
examples of, 146
textile annular, 146
See also UWB antennas
Smart clothes, 209
Smart homes, sensors in, 290
Smart skirt technology, 290
Smart wireless electrocardiograph (ECG) patch, 1, 3
SoftWear antennas, 211
Solid (dry) phantoms
advantages/disadvantages, 359
defined, 22-23
examples of, 25
illustrated, 26
Space environment, sensors for, 289
Specific absorption rate (SAR), 244
FCC limit, 354
implant antennas, 353-54
Standard deviation (STD), 180, 194
Standardization, 14
Subband FDTD method, 44-47
approximations for UTD/RT, 45-46
defined, 44
path loss, 46, 47
steps, 44
Subject-specific modeling, 47-50
comparison between measurements, 49
path loss, 48, 49
three-dimensional images, 48
Substrate materials
Cordura, 226, 227
effect of, 222-27
ground plane size, 224-27
radiating patch, distance, 223
radiation patterns, 226, 227
thickness of, 224
See also Textile materials; Wearable antennas
Surface wave Yagi antenna, 95
System outage percentage, 202
Systems modeling, 105-6
T
Tapered CPW-fed slot-coupled monopole antenna
defined, 148
design, 149
return loss, 149
Telemedicine/telecare
antennas, 300-314
applications, 293-300
on-body systems, 293-320
channel effects, 314-18
conclusions, 319-20
cumulative distribution functions, 316, 317
defined, 293
emerging technologies, 297-98
full mobility technologies, 297
home-based technologies, 297
human body interaction, 300-314
inter-BAN interference, 318-19
patient-centric wearable system, 295
patient localization, 298
patient monitoring signals, 295-96
personal, 294
power delay profile, 316
radio frequency interference, 318-19
system design issues, 314-19
ward-based technologies, 296-97
wireless link design, 298-300
Textile antennas
bow tie DRA, 212
crumpled, 217
defined, 209, 211
design steps, 252
dimensions, 228
four element, 217
with knitted copper and fleece fabric, 229
literature, 362
neoprene fabric, 215
PIFA, 216
See also Wearable antennas
Textile materials
classification of, 221
conductive, effects of, 228-33
Cordura, 219-20, 221, 222
GPS antennas on, 223
performance parameters, 221-22
polymers, 219
substrate, effects of, 222-27
substrates, 219
synthetic felt, 219
upholstery fabric, 219
Vellux, 219
Textile WLAN antenna
arm model, 246-47
defined, 244
models and methods, 246-47
normalized near field distribution, 250
radiation patterns, 248, 249
resonant frequency comparison, 248
results, 247-50
SAR values, 250
torso model, 246, 247
Theoretical phantoms, 27-28
3-D woven composites structure, 218
Three-state Fritchman model, 83
Time delay spread, 84
Transmitters
arm models wearing, 122-23
calculation model, 121
COSPAS-SARSAT, 209, 210
direction of, 127
U
UHF band, 8, 362
Ultrawideband (UWB)
on body, 10
for body-centric wireless communication, 139-204
on-body channel modeling dispersive FDTD method, 42-47
channel characterization and modeling, 173-202
channel simulation and measurement methodology, 161-72
conclusions, 202-4
dielectric properties, 25
multiband OFDM, 195-202
overview of, 139-40
phantom, 24-25
radiation patterns, 158-59
for radio usability, 139
systems, 105
telemedicine/telecare antenna applications, 313
See also UWB antennas; UWB radio propagation; UWB radio systems
Uniform theory of diffraction (UTD), 30-31
on-body radio propagation modeling, 31
in channel variation characterization, 30
finite-difference time-domain (UTD/FDTD), 30
U-slot dual-frequency antenna, 233-37
defined, 233-34
fabric thickness effect, 235-36
geometry, 234
photo, 235
radiation pattern, 236, 237
return loss, 234, 235, 236
See also Wearable antennas
UWB antennas, 140-60
for body-centric applications, 143-48
for body-centric measurements, 164
body-proximity induced radiation characteristics, 153-58
conclusions, 160
design and analysis, 141-58
designs, 141
directional slot, 146-48
far-field free-space distortion metrics, 153-54
far-field free-space radiation patterns, 148, 150-52
frequency domain transfer functions, 141-42
impedance bandwidth, 141
impulse response, 142-43
measurements, 158-60
omnidirectional, 160
one-directional, 160
parameters, 141-53
performance aspects, 148-53
planar disc monopole, 144
pulse distortion analysis, 148
radiation efficiency, 157
return loss, 149
return loss comparison, 156-57
scattering environment, 167
signal fidelity, 142
slot, 144-46
tapered CPW-fed slot-coupled monopole, 148, 149
tapered slot-fed monopole design, 149
time spread, 142-43
transmit transfer function comparison, 156-57
UWB radio propagation
BAN scenarios, 180-95
channel, 71
as complex phenomenon, 180
concluding remarks, 172
conclusions, 172
dynamic channel investigations, 167-72
dynamic measurement procedure, 166
FDTD advantages, 161
floor plan example, 166
measurement equipment setup, 163
measurement of, 162
measurement scenarios with antenna positions, 165
measurements with body phantoms, 162
multipath propagation, 173
PAN with mobile devices (PAN-MD), 168, 169
parameters, 162
simulation of, 161-62
simulation setup, 161
static channel investigations, 163-67
time domain radio channel measurements, 168
with vector network analyzer (VNA), 162
VNA experimental setup, 163, 164
UWB radio systems
front-end, 140
impulse radio (UWB-IR), 195
multicarrier (MC-UWB), 195
types of, 195
V
Vector network analyzers (VNAs)
on-body channel measurement with, 65
mounting, 65
Visible human project (VHP), 28
Voxel phantoms
availability, 360
defined, 28-29
progress in, 360
W
Walking, dynamic body effects modeling, 53-54
Ward-based systems technologies, 296-97
Wave propagation, 334-37
Wearable antennas, 209-63
bending/crumpling, 216
body placement, 216
conclusions, 261-62
critical design issues, 218-19
defined, 211
design features, 219, 220
destructive tests, 256-61
dielectric resonators (DRAs), 212
dual frequency, 233-37
electromagnetic bandgap (EBG) materials, 212-13
environmental performance, 250-61
fabric material properties, 216-18
introduction to, 209-11
literature review, 211-18
manufacture methods, 216-18
near human body, 244
requirements, 218-19
3-D woven composites structure, 218
types of, 211-15
U-slot patch, 233-37
vest, 214
wire-type, 211
See also Textile antennas
Wearable computers
BANs in, 63
with circuits in direct contact with human body, 113-20
as fashion accessory, 3
University of Birmingham, 2
using human body as transmission channel, 113
Wearable electromagnetic bang gap antenna (WEBGA), 237-44
antenna bending measurement setup, 243
bending, 239-44
defined, 237-39
embedded patches, 240
geometry, 239
photo, 240
radiation patterns, 239, 241, 242, 243
resonance frequencies comparison, 241
return loss, 239
as WLAN antenna example, 237-44
Wearable medical support network, 5
Wearable transmitters, 120
Whole body models, 120-22
Wideband channel characteristics, 315
Wideband power autocorrelation functions, 176, 177
Wideband systems, 10
Wire implanted antennas, 347-49
instantaneous magnitude of electric field, 347-48
in muscle simulating liquid, 349
phase velocity of medium, 347
See also Implanted antennas
Wireless Medical Telemetry Services (WMTS) band, 9, 14
Wireless telemedicine
antenna directional characteristics, 299
FCC rules, 299
link design, 298-300
receiving antennas, 299-300
See also Telemedicine/telecare
WLAN
applications, 10
See also Textile WLAN antenna
Wiggle antennas, 88, 89
















