



Table
of Contents
Introduction
- How I Got Into This Mess!
Readers
and Memorizers - Which are You?
Sight-Reading
Tips from the Intergoogle
Collecting
Your Sight-Reading Material
Am
I Dyslexic or Something??
Dumb
Clefs, Smart Clefs
Finally,
Some Progress!
Read
Intervals, Ignore Notes
One
More Time - Playing a Piece More Than Once
Progress
Report - After 1.5 Months
Looking/Memorizing
Ahead
What
a Pain - When (Ouch) Pain Interferes
It's
the Intervals, Stupid
One
Hand at a Time - Divide and Conquer
Progress
Report - 2 Months
Progress
Report - 3 Months
Progress
Report with Recordings
Hit
the Accelerator - Playing Faster, Sometimes
Progress
- New Recordings
Halfway
There - Six Months Hard Labor
Still
Working Away
Practice
Session Recorded - Ten Minutes in the Life...
I
Did It!
Progress
Report - 1.25 Years
Progress
Report - 1.75 Years
Two
Years and Counting
Getting
Professional Help
Interesting
Observations from Books
Sh*t
My Teacher Says
Progress
Report - 4 Years!
Still
Plodding Along
Progress
Report - Five Long Years!
A
Month of Intervals Only
Or
Not!
Sight-Reading
Dos and Don'ts 

Loose
Ends
Conclusion








 

Becoming a Great
Sight-Reader -or Not!
Follow my quest for piano
sight-reading nirvana, and learn what you should and shouldn't do.
By Al Macy

Copyright © 2014 Al MacyAll Rights Reserved.








Introduction - How I Got Into This Mess!
December 10, 2007
Today I decided to become a great (or at least,
good) piano sight-reader. Although I'm already a jazz piano player,
with 4-6 gigs per month, my sight-reading is lousy. Really lousy.
I'll bet that most seven-year-olds who have had a year of lessons
read music better than I.

My plan is to get the best advice on how to
improve my sight-reading skills, and then devote 2+ hours per day to
sight-reading practice - for at least one year.
If you are in the same situation, you may be
asking yourself what's required to reach this goal, and how long it
will take. You're also scouring the web looking for tips on how to
jump-start your sight-reading. Well, I'm writing this for you. OK,
also to show how clever I am, but mostly for you.
The subtitle of my book talks about my quest for
"sight-reading nirvana" because I figured it would look
good on the cover, plus it should up my sales with the huge Buddhist
piano sight-reading demographic. So, borrowing from the real
definition of "nirvana," this is what I'm after: 

A transcendent state
in which there is neither suffering, desire, nor sense of self, and
the subject can readily play new piano music, as long as it's not too
difficult.
Yeah, that's my quest.
IMPORTANT: you may want to read this entire book
(or at least skip to the end) before you begin, so that you can
benefit from my experiences, and not head down any dead-ends.
Why I Want to be a Good Sight-Reader:  I've
found that I don't need to be a good sight-reader to play small-combo
jazz.  Most jazz musicians read from jazz "charts." These
consist of single note melodies along with the chords.  I don't have
much trouble with these charts, since I can read the melody easily,
and my left hand knows how to play the chords. However:
● Once in a while I
might need to read standard music to play with, for example, a big
band.
● I don't feel like
I'm a real piano player if I can't read music well.
● I'd be embarrassed
if someone said "Hey, Al plays piano, let's have him accompany
us with this Christmas carol music!"
● Occasionally I use
some educational material (for example, transcriptions, sample intros
or endings), and it would be convenient to be able to read it
quickly.

● I like the process of acquiring a new skill.
My Musical Background: For you to evaluate
whether your experience in learning to sight-read will match mine,
you need to know a little about my musical background. So, here's a
boring look at my history.
As a young kid I played piano by ear, but never
took formal lessons. I had some records with Bach piano pieces on
them, played them at 16 RPM (on this thing called a "record
player" - playing a 33 RPM record at 16 RPM makes the
music slow, and brings it down about an octave), and learned parts of
them by ear. This makes me sound more like a prodigy than I was -
I only did this for a few pieces, and it took a long time. Eventually
my mom took pity on me and bought me the sheet music, and I would
laboriously figure out a measure or two, and memorize the piece that
way. The main point is that I went out of my way to avoid learning to
read music. 

At age nine I took up trombone, and studied it
seriously until the final year of high school, when a scheduling
conflict between chemistry and band made me choose between music and
science. I chose science (phew, that was close!). 

As required by the 1960s law that stated that
every teenager has to play rock and roll guitar, I also took lessons
in guitar, and played in a rock band. I even performed in a Simon and
Garfunkel type duo, at "The Chicken Coop," once a week,
getting paid $2.50 plus one piece of fried chicken.
But I pretty much did nothing with music from
college until 1987 (age 34), when my interest in jazz was rekindled
by hearing the tune "All of Me" in Steve Martin's movie
of the same name.
I took formal piano lessons for a year or two,
worked hard, and learned a lot, but the sight-reading just wasn't
happening.
In 1992 (age 38) I picked up the trombone again,
and got serious about jazz trombone. My sight-reading was better on
trombone than piano (hey, only one note at a time!), but I still
needed to polish it up for big band playing. I played jazz trombone
seriously until 2005 (age 52), performing with a number of large and
small groups.

In 2005, I was having some problems with my
shoulder, caused by too much trombone playing, so it was time to
switch back to piano. This time I concentrated on jazz, and didn't
work much on sight-reading. That is, my playing consisted of playing
the chord changes, with improvisation in the right hand. That has
worked well, and I now lead a jazz quartet (Sax, drums, bass, and
piano), and also play in duos (Sax & piano or piano & bass)
and trios. Here are my web sites: www.247jazz.com,
www.AlMacyJazz.com. 

One other thing relevant to sight-reading: I've
always been a speedy typist. In college, I had this thing called a
"typewriter,"  which is like a papery laptop. I wanted to
cure myself of the bad habit of looking at the keys, so I put tape
over the letter names on all of the keys. That solved my problem
after only a week. The thing about typing is that there is no
conscious thought on my part. I think of a sentence and it magically
appears. Wouldn't it be nice if I could get that way with piano?
This last November, I reread A
Soprano on her Head, and it inspired me to give
sight-reading another chance.
Yay, that's the end of the long boring history.
The main point was that I was pretty musical, but avoided learning to
sight-read chordal piano music very well. It may be that my window of
opportunity closed when I was a kid.
Now to find out whether I can learn to sight-read!










Readers and Memorizers - Which are You?
December 11, 2007
In A
Soprano on Her Head, the author notes that
there are two kinds of musicians: readers and memorizers.
Readers can sit down and sight-read a new piece
well, but wish they were good at memorizing or at playing by ear.
Memorizers, who are often also good at playing by
ear, can hardly avoid memorizing a piece of music that they play
multiple times, but wish that they could sight-read better.
This makes sense, because if you're a memorizer,
you get less sight-reading practice. That is, if you play a piece ten
times, you're only sight-reading it once or twice. You may not
memorize it completely after one time, but you get some benefit from
your memory, and you generally remember what comes next. A reader,
however, is (almost) sight-reading it each time, and thus getting
5-10 times more sight-reading practice!
Also, if you play well by ear, you're going to
find that if you know the tune, you don't read the melody, and just
play it by ear.  I remember that once I said "Hey, I'm really
getting this sight-reading stuff!" but soon realized that I was
playing well because I wasn't reading the melody at all, just playing
it by ear.
That's my problem: I'm a memorizer. So, to solve
this problem, I'll get my hands on tons of easy piano material so
that I never have to play the same piece twice. 










Sight-Reading Tips from the Intergoogle
December 14, 2007
[The tips in this chapter are great, but
tap here for some tips that I posted after
working on sight-reading for four years.]
I started my sight-reading quest by finding all
the web site tips and tricks I could. Here are the tips I like the
most (they are described in more detail in the links below):
● Practice playing
with your eyes closed (exercises, memorized pieces, etc.). If you
never have to look down at the keyboard, sight-reading will be
easier. Blind pianists can do it, so can you.
● Play at a steady
pace and don't stop to fix mistakes (don't "stutter"). I
find this very hard advice to follow.
● Look ahead. This
is something else I have trouble with, but I'm working on it.
● Learn to recognize
intervals instead of individual notes.
Here are the links to the sight-reading tips
that I located through Google.  (Please note that these links worked
when I wrote the book.  If some of them no longer work, I suggest
doing some Google searches for "sight-reading tips.")










Tips for
Learning Better Sight-Reading
A
Page of Tips and Tricks
Excellent
Tips, Including "Play with your eyes closed"
A
Quick List of Tips
Tips
from a Teacher
Ten
Tips from a Book
Sight-Reading Tips from Forums
General
Tips
Finding
a Book on Sight-Reading
Discussion
of Looking Ahead
More
Tips and Discussion










Collecting Your Sight-Reading Material
December 15, 2007
If I'm going to sight-read all new pieces, and I'm
going to do it two hours per day I'm going to need literally hundreds
of easy piano pieces! Here are just some of the books I've collected:

Here's where I got them:
● Online: Google
"free easy piano music" and you'll find a number of sites
with printable music. Unfortunately, you'll need to download and
print each piece individually.
● From
a friend who had a lot of sheet music in her closets (Thanks,
Dottie!)
● The
Brick-and-Mortar Public Library: Yay!! This is the best resource.
I've found lots of music at all levels.
● Hymnals: A must
have for sight-reading practice. Through PaperBackSwap.com,
I got a Christian Science hymnal and a Presbyterian hymnal. The first
was printed in 1938 but is in great shape (they don't make books like
they used to).









Am I Dyslexic or Something??
December 17,2007
Well, I've been at it for about a week, and I'm
starting to wonder if I have some kind of undiagnosed dyslexia!
Sometimes I'll read the bass clef as treble, or the bass clef in the
right hand, etc.
I'd also like to know what kind of sick, twisted
jerk came up with the idea of two clefs which, although they look
exactly the same, represent different notes. Perhaps it was just a
joke played by a medieval monk.

A large part of my learning effort is devoted to
inhibiting the bass clef interpretation of a note so that I can read
the correct treble clef value. I've learned both, but since I used
bass clef exclusively for seven years as a child (trombone), that's
the one that tries to take charge when I'm looking at a note. For
more, see my
diatribe on this topic.
There was a famous musician who gave lectures
about music to kids. He would start a talk by having a ten-year-old
girl come up on the stage, and ask her to rip the Manhattan phone
book in half. She couldn't do it, of course, so he'd whisper a few
words to her, put her behind a screen, and at the end of the lecture
she'd come out with the book in two pieces. She did it by ripping one
page at a time.
The point here was that when you have a daunting
task ahead of you, it can help to destroy something. Ha ha. No, the
point is that if you can accept small increments of progress, you can
eventually solve a big problem.
As I'm playing some of these hymns and other songs
at a glacial tempo, I just have to have faith that I will eventually
get better. Each day I improve by the thickness of a single, thin
piece of paper.
While I'm plodding through some of these easy
pieces, it doesn't seem possible that anyone could actually
sight-read them at a realistic tempo, but I know, of course that it
can be done.
Keeping yourself from slowing down or stopping is
much more difficult than you might think, even with the metronome
running. The best remedy is to play along with others, but I'll have
to improve a lot before I can find some way to do that.
Similarly, looking ahead is not working for me at
this point. I can sometimes look ahead a measure, but memorizing the
next measure while simultaneously playing the current one is not
happening.
I have a few things going for me. My hands
generally know where the notes are, so I usually don't have to look
down from the music. Bigger jumps are a problem, though, so I try to
spend some time each day playing jazz, scales, or other exercises
blindfolded.
Also, I'm finding that my theory background helps
a lot. That is, I know what accidentals to expect, and knowing what
chord is likely to come up helps me play it. 










Dumb Clefs, Smart Clefs
December 18, 2007
In this post, I'm going to make a simple
suggestion that would make piano music much easier to learn, and
easier to play. It's probably totally unrealistic, but here we go...
Take a look at this note that you might see
written on a page of music:

That symbol represents an "A" if it's on
the treble clef, but on the bass clef, it represents a "C".
Looks exactly the same, but means different things on different
clefs.
Isn't that a strange system? Think of the
accidents you'd have if a stop sign meant "Stop" when on
the left side of the street, and "One Way" if it were on
the right.

So, wouldn't it be nice if the notes were the
same on the two clefs?
Here's a suggestion about an alternate version of
the bass clef that will result in notes being represented the same
way on the two clefs. The change needed to make it this way is a
simple one, and it would greatly benefit anyone who has to learn two
clefs. Here's a description of the change.
Current System (Dumb Clefs): There are a
lot of clefs that are used in writing music, but there are two that
are much more common than others: the treble clef and the bass clef.
Combined together they are referred to as the grand staff. This is
what it looks like (below the keyboard):

This looks nice and neat,
but here's the problem. This arrangement results in different notes
being represented by the same written notes on the different staves.
As I mentioned above, this representation:

refers to an A if it's on the treble clef, but a C
if on the bass clef. Looks exactly the same, means two different
things.
Here are the note names on the grand staff:

To learn just the notes shown in this figure, you
(or a seven-year-old student) would have to memorize 38 different
notes!
But much worse, a single representation of a note,
like this,

looks exactly the same to your brain whether you
are dealing with treble or bass clef, yet it represents two different
notes. No matter how well you know your music, your brain still has
to go through that extra step and say "OK, if this were the bass
clef that would be a C, but we are dealing with the treble clef here,
so that is an A."
There's a surprisingly easy to fix this.
Suggested System (Smart Clefs): Imagine
that the grand staff were slightly different, like this:

It looks just as nice and neat as the grand staff
you're used to, but with a single additional note (two ledger lines
total) inserted between the two staves. This simple change gives us a
tremendous advantage: The notes are in the same places on each staff!
Note that I've called the lower clef a "Smart
clef," and it's represented with an "S". Here are the
note names on this new grand staff:

So, for example, this:

represents an A, no matter which clef you are
reading from. On the upper staff it's an A above middle C, and on the
lower, it's an A about an octave below middle C.
Think about what this change would mean. Students
would have their memorizing task cut in half (only about 16 notes
instead of 38). They'd learn their notes in half the time.
Better, your brain can process the notes faster
when sight-reading (OK, I made this part up, but it makes sense).
If publishers could agree to print beginner piano
music (or all music) with these new clefs, a lot of time, effort, and
frustration would be saved.
Objections: I've been surprised to find
that if I talk about a change like this, I usually hear some
(violent) objections. Here's what I've heard:
Objection 1: Once you get used to the standard
clefs you won't have problems.
Sure, but it will take you longer to learn them.
Also, I suspect that your performance would always be a little better
if you can avoid that extra processing step.
Objection 2: There are plenty of staves (tenor,
soprano, etc.); treble and bass are just two among many.
True, but they are the ones used by most, and most
piano music is written on them.
Objection 3: The current grand staff is
symmetrical around middle C, and it makes sense.
The smart clef is also symmetrical and makes just
as much sense. It just happens to be symmetrical around a B instead
of a C. Some people like the fact that there's only one ledger line
between the staves. The new system has two. The two staves are rarely
printed so close to one another that there's only room for one ledger
line between them anyway. In that regard, the smart clef makes more
sense.
Objection 4: You're going to change the piano
keyboard??!!
No, no changes to the keyboard or to any
instruments are necessary.  Someone actually voiced this objection.
Objection 5: I'm already proficient with the
current system. I don't want a new clef to learn.
There's nothing new for you to learn. The notes in
the smart clef are in the same location as on the treble clef. You
can probably adapt to it in a day or so. I know this because often
music has sections notated with two treble clefs or two bass clefs.
This is especially true of music written for four hands. Those
situations are not difficult to deal with.
Objection 6: Nice idea, but most music is
already written with the standard grand staff.
Ah, here's a real problem. Literally billions
(with a "B") of sheets of music have been printed with the
treble and bass clef.
But, look at the state of downloadable sheet
music. On some web sites, you can download songs and print them in
any key. Digital displays are used in some applications and will be
more common in ten years. We are  entering a period of transition to
a newer way of displaying music, and now might be a good time to make
a change.
That's fine, you might say, but let's say a kid
who's learned piano using the smart clef system wants to get some
music from the library and play it? She will be out of luck!
True, but this situation occurs today, since some
older music is written in unfamiliar clefs. When playing trombone, I
came across exercises and pieces written for tenor clef, a clef I've
never learned.
In rare cases, when the music isn't available in
smart clef, and can't be converted, the student will have to learn
the bass clef, in which case she will be no worse off than she is
today. Better off, since she's already been playing a while, and
doesn't have to learn two new clefs at once.
Conclusion: Humans have a surprisingly high
tolerance for different standards. Here are some examples:
● Philips head
versus Slotted screwdrivers 

● Standard time
versus Daylight time 

● Metric versus
English systems 

● Democrats
versus Republicans
● ePub
books versus Kindle books
● PCs versus
Macintoshes 

● Driving on the
left versus Driving on the right 

● Calculator keypads
versus Telephone keypads (take a look!)
That may explain why people have tolerated the
current system for so long.
Yes, it may be unreasonable to suggest a change
like this, and I'm sure someone else has already proposed it. At
least it's something to think about, and that's why I wrote this
chapter. 









Finally,
Some Progress!
January 19, 2008
Well, it's been about 40 days and 40 nights of
two-hour-per-day sight-reading, and I'm starting to see some signs of
improvement! Not as much as I'd expect, considering I've now
sight-read through over 700 pieces, but enough to notice.
I'm noticing, for example, that some of the more
common note groupings are quickly recognized and converted into
movement of my fingers with less conscious thought on my part. Also,
notes which were less familiar before, are now less likely to slow me
down.  For example, the C two octaves above middle C (two ledger
lines above the treble staff) is now more familiar to me, and doesn't
throw me off.  No more "Whoa - what's that note?"
I'm still playing things at a much slower than
normal tempo. For example, I might play a difficult (for me) piece at
60 BPM per eighth note! For most pieces, I set the metronome to 50
BPM (for quarter notes).
To give you a feeling for where I stand, I find
that I can sight-read this piece, first time through, quite well at
50 BPM:


Whereas I'll have some trouble sight-reading this
piece at the same tempo:


The hymnals have been the most useful, since they
have so many chords and intervals to practice.
In addition to these books,

I have read through America's Song Book, Young
America's Music, Easy Piano Classics, and about 200 hymns.
I suspect two reasons for my slow progress:
1. At age 54, perhaps I've
missed the critical period for learning reading-related skills.
Conventional wisdom holds that adults have a much harder time
learning to read text than do children. There's some controversy
about that, but it may be related to my slow progress.  It could also
be that I've just had more time to build up bad habits (like
attending to notes rather than intervals) than, say, a
seven-year-old.
2. Yes, I've read through 700
pieces already but I've only been working at it for one month. If one
can become a good sight-reader in ten years by reading 15 minutes per
day, it doesn't mean that one can accomplish the same thing in three
months by reading 10 hours per day. In other words, there's a passage
of time component that's also important in learning a skill like
this.
Sight-Singing First: I've done some limited
experiments with sight-singing part of a piece first, to see if it
will improve my sight-reading. Result: doesn't seem to help. That is,
if I sight-sing a line of the melody before playing it, I don't play
it any better than I would have without the sight-singing.
Not Looking at my Hands: As mentioned, this
is something I'm pretty good at, but I notice that every once in a
while I do glance down, and this often causes me to make mistakes.
In addition to playing memorized pieces and jazz
with my eyes closed, here's one other exercise I find useful: Close
your eyes, place a hand on the keyboard, and try to recognize where
it landed by feel. You're not allowed to move the hand; recognize the
position based only on the keys you can feel immediately.
Looking Ahead: I realize the importance of
this, but I don't do it very well. I have to consciously force myself
to do it. It usually goes like this:
1. I think: "Hey, you've
got to look ahead more!"
2. I look ahead a measure, and
memorize part of it, say the left hand.
3. I play that measure, but I'm
so absorbed in playing what I've memorized, that I don't look ahead
to the next.
I'm giving this a high priority right now. 










Read Intervals, Ignore Notes
January 21, 2008
Today I've noticed that if I consciously try to
ignore the individual notes in a two-note chord, and instead look at
it as an interval with a given top or bottom note, it makes the
reading easier.
For example, instead of seeing this:

as a C and an A (in treble clef), I see it as a
sixth, with a C as the lower note.
I knew from the start that that would help, but
today found that an "I am NOT going to look at the individual
notes!" attitude is helpful.
I'm finding that one key to faster sight-reading,
is to have the music trigger movement of my hands rather than result
in some kind of intellectual process. As soon as the interval is
recognized as a sixth, my hand automatically adjusts itself to the
shape needed to play a sixth. 










One More Time - Playing a Piece More Than Once
January 22, 2008
Throughout this process I generally limit myself
to playing a piece one time only. The idea here is that the second
time through it's no longer sight-reading, it's practicing. The thing
I want to learn is sight-reading.
On the other hand, I find that I do get some
benefits from playing a song a second or even a third time:
● Although I have
trouble making myself look ahead while playing, it's much easier the
second time through. Hopefully this will give me some much-needed
practice in this important skill.
● On the second
go-round, I get a chance to see the things that caused problems
during sight-reading - things that I ignored the first time.
For example, on first reading I might have a problem with a few
measures and think "I wonder what went wrong there?" Second
time through, I can see "Oh, that was a problem because there's
contrary motion in the two hands." or "That was a problem
because the notes aren't what you'd expect."
By the way, it's amazing how much easier the
pieces are the second time through. I'm not sure what's going on,
since I certainly don't memorize the song in one run through. I guess
just having a general knowledge of what's going to happen next is
enough to improve my playing. Perhaps I should spend a little more
time pre-reading the music before I start playing. 










Progress Report - After 1.5 Months
January 25, 2008
As an example of my progress, today I sight-read
this piece at 55 BPM without making too many mistakes.

Yesterday, however, I played some simpler pieces,
and had difficulty - some days forward, some days back. It's
always difficult to gauge your progress, since every song is
different. You'll start celebrating your success, only to realize
that you hadn't improved, the songs were just simpler than the ones
you played the day before.
This also happens: I'll be playing some common
song, and think "Hey, this is really working, I must be
improving!" only to realize that I've been playing the melody by
ear, and only reading the bass part - hadn't even glanced at
the melody.
Speaking of that, I've found that I can play one
hand of a song, even if there are a lot of chords, pretty fast. Not
surprising, I guess, since it's only half the music, but it's a good
feeling, and I look forward to playing both hands at that speed.
Many people recommend working only with pieces
that you can play reasonably well at 50 BPM. I suspect that you can
still learn a lot playing a piece that's more difficult, but it's a
lot more frustrating. So, if you're worried that you'll give up, go
for the easier material.
You really have to be motivated to make this work.
If I hadn't decided that I was going to spend a year on this no
matter what, I probably would have given up by now. I know this is
true, since I've given up on sight-reading twice in the past.
I'm still "into it," and I'm often
practicing three hours of sight-reading in a day, but there are some
days when I have to force myself through the mandatory two hours.
I'm still finding enough material from the library
and from books lent to me by friends, but I've realized that I don't
have to have a strict "one song, one time" policy. That is,
after I've read through a few hundred songs, I can probably go back
and read them again without getting much benefit from my first
reading.
One other note: If you're starting out, I'd
recommend recording your sight-reading of a few pieces, so that later
you'll have a feeling for how much you've improved. Alternatively,
you can just make some notes about what songs you played at what
tempos. 










Looking/Memorizing Ahead
January 25, 2008
The concept of looking ahead as you play is an
important one, and I'm working hard on developing this skill. The
idea is this: most sight-readers are scanning and memorizing upcoming
notes while their hands are on autopilot, playing the current measure
with no conscious thought necessary.
In today's chapter I talk about some things I've
learned on this topic.
There are a few people who claim that they do not
look ahead at all. I know this because I've seen forum threads like
this:
Mary:
I don't read ahead at all when I sight-reading!
Bob:
I'm sure you do, you just don't realize it.
Mary:
No, I don't look ahead at all.
Bob:
Then you must not be a very good sight-reader.
Mary:
Yes I am, I won the New York State sight-reading competition five
times.
Bob:
You're a liar and you are stupid.
Mary:
No, you are stupid.
However, most good sight-readers feel that looking
ahead is an important component of their skill.
I used to think that sight-readers looked several
measures ahead, but it seems that most only scan ahead about one
measure at most.
Here's an exercise that a piano teacher did with
me years ago: She let me study a measure as long as I wanted, but
when I gave a nod to indicate that I'd memorized it, she'd cover it
up. I wasn't allowed to play it until it was covered. This would
continue with each measure of the song. The idea was that I'd play
one measure while memorizing the next - just as I should be
doing when sight-reading.
I hated that exercise! Yesterday I tried doing it
myself, forcing myself not to look at a measure while playing it, and
I still hate it. I think I know why I don't like it. Take a look at
this line from a song I used for this exercise:


This is a very simple piece, but there's a lot
going on in some of those measures! Take the first measure, for
example, how are you going to memorize that quickly? It's much easier
just to play it. Can you do this in two seconds (the time allotted to
one measure at 120 BPM)?
"OK, let's see. First beat, there's a B in
the bass with a minor third starting on D in the right hand, then
both hands play a G, followed by a D in the bass, with a B and an F
in the right hand, BTW all quarter notes so far, and now the last
beat has another G in the bass and treble, but the right hand G is a
dotted eighth followed by a sixteenth."
Or perhaps, in a more sophisticated way:
"OK, the bass arpeggiates a half-diminished B
minor with 1-5-3-5 quarter notes, while the right hand first does the
3-5 of the chord, up an octave, plus the sixth, then a 1-5, followed
by a pair of G eighth notes that are swung."
Even those long descriptions don't adequately
describe the measure.
Presumably I would be memorizing that measure in a
more non-verbal way, perhaps even memorizing the way my hands would
feel as it's played. Maybe I'll be able to do that in the future, but
for now, this is just too much stuff for me to memorize; it's more
information than humans can normally put in their short
term memory.
So yesterday I had this revelation:
I don't have to look/memorize
ahead a whole measure at a time.
The distance ahead that I scan can
depend on the difficulty or simplicity of the measures. When there's
a lot of information in the notes, I might read only the next beat as
I play the current one. When I come to a measure that's simple, I can
take the time to look further ahead.
Now that I'm no longer rigidly trying
to bite off full measures at a time, I've had more success looking
ahead. Yes there are still times when the current notes are difficult
enough for me that all looking ahead gets canceled until further
notice, but for very simple music I can experience the concept of
looking/memorizing ahead first hand, and it feels good.









What a Pain - When (Ouch) Pain Interferes
January 29, 2008
Looks like something is different when I'm
sight-reading than when playing my normal jazz, since I'm starting to
get a real pain in the back. That is, years of several hours/day with
no pain, and now, pain.
To find out what's different, I did some
sight-reading, then played some jazz. I noticed immediately that I'm
a lot more relaxed when playing jazz. Posture is about the same, but
when sight-reading, I'm holding my torso in position rather than just
relaxing.
Today I was able to go about an hour with no pain,
due either to consciously relaxing, or the three ibuprofens that I
took. I'll have to space out my sight-reading practice in order to
get at least two hours in every day.
I've dealt with repetitive strain injuries before,
and I expect I can lick this. 










It's the Intervals, Stupid
January 29, 2008
As mentioned before, quick recognition of
intervals seems like one of the keys to sight-reading well. That is,
I expect my sight-reading to be faster and easier if I can learn to
see this


as a sixth with E as the lower note (bass
clef) rather than as an E and a C. Why do I think that? Well, first,
as soon as I know I'm dealing with, for example, a sixth, my fingers
automatically take on the proper positioning for playing a sixth.
Second, when I try to force myself to use intervals, sight-reading
seems a little easier.
One problem is that, for the larger intervals, and
to my untrained eye, it's hard to quickly see what interval I'm
dealing with. For example, the difference between a sixth and a
seventh is hard to see in an instant.
I figured I need to learn to "attend to the
distinctive features" of the different intervals, as one of my
psych professors would say. So here's something I've tried - no
idea whether it's useful or not.
I sit down with a piece of music and scan along
one clef as quickly as possible and call out the different intervals.
For example, for this music:


I'd say "5, 3, 1, 6, 8, 6, 5, 5, 6, 8, 8, 9,"
etc.
Will this help? Who knows? 










One Hand at a Time - Divide and Conquer
January 30, 2008
In an online discussion of sight-reading tips, one
piano teacher recommended reading through an entire hymnal playing
only the left hand part, then going through a second time playing the
right hand, and finally playing both parts.
So for the last two days I've been playing just
the left hand part of the hymns, and this exercise has some
advantages:
● First, I'm playing
at speed (for example 85 BPM). This gives me practice at recognizing
and playing intervals quickly. If I want to learn to play
pieces at the normal tempo, perhaps it's smart to do some practicing
at a normal tempo.
● Second, I have a
little more time for working on looking ahead, and recognizing
intervals. Yes, I'm playing faster, but it feels that my mind is
freed up a little to work on these aspects of sight-reading.
● Third, one gets
more playing in. I can plow through almost twice as many songs when
I'm playing this fast.
● Fourth, it's less
discouraging. When playing things at a glacial pace, they don't even
sound like music. Even if it's just the bass part, it sounds more
musical when playing at a more normal tempo.
However, this exercise has one big disadvantage:
I'm not practicing the one thing that gives me the most difficulty,
namely reading and playing four or more notes in two hands at the
same time.
So, I plan to use this learning technique in
addition to my hands-together practicing. In just the two days I've
been doing this, I already feel that my left hand playing is more
automatic, with less conscious thought required. Some passages just
seem to play themselves.
On a side note, one problem with hymns is that
they'll often include intervals in the left hand that are not
playable with one hand. Like this:


This is a bother, since you have to interrupt your
sight-reading practice to deal with it. Some piano forum members
recommend either playing the upper note with the right hand, moving
the lower note up and octave, or playing the lower note and a copy of
it up an octave. 










Progress Report - 2 Months
February 10, 2008
I'm now one sixth of the way through the year, and
where do I stand? Well, progress continues, but it is still less than
I had hoped for.
Some days I'll have a breakthrough, but it's
always hard to tell whether I've gotten better or just hit a patch of
easier songs.
For example, a few days ago I'd already put in my
hours of practice, and was surfing the web for some new sight-reading
tips. After looking through KeyPiano.com,
and some other sites, I realized that though I've been working at
recognizing intervals rather than pairs of notes, I should extend
this concept further. That is, I should try to see all the music in
terms of intervals. For example, instead of seeing this (treble
clef):

as a a sixth with B in the bottom, followed by a
third with E in the bottom, followed by a D, I should see it like
this: A sixth with B in the bottom, then move up a fourth, and play a
third, then move down one step.
The idea is to eliminate all note names as much as
possible, and just look at the movements within the notes in the key.
I tried this out, and immediately saw an
improvement! However, the next day my new skill wasn't as evident.
So I continue to slog along. I've read through an
entire Presbyterian hymnal - some of it reading only one hand
at a time.
My middle back pain has gotten worse, so now it
hurts on jazz gigs as well as during sight-reading practice. I'll be
on a surfing trip in a month or so, so perhaps it will heal given a
break in practicing. Until then, ibuprofen is my friend. 










Progress Report - 3 Months
March 12, 2008
Here's the short summary of this month: I'm still
making progress, but I lost one week to the pain in the back, and one
week to a surfing vacation in Hawaii.
Pain in the Back - Solved? The
practicing-related pain in the back continued to get worse. Some of
my jazz gigs were torture. Assuming that the basic cause is bad
posture, I worked on several ways of solving it.
First was to make a wedge, to put on the piano
bench, that would tilt my torso forward, and force me to sit up
straight.


That didn't really do it, since I could still sit
in such a way that allowed me to slouch. 


 I then tried putting together my piano bench such
that it was tilted, and putting it end-on to the piano.

 This was just too uncomfortable.
Finally, I found a solution: Use a chair.

 I was surprised to find that my computer
chair, at full height, was the same height as my piano bench. If I
sit with my back supported by the back of the chair, the pain is much
less. I had one three hour piano gig with no pain at all.
[A note from the future, January 4, 2014: I'm back
to playing on a regular piano bench, many hours per day,  with no
pain. I do use a small wedge cushion to help me with my posture. The
improvement may be simply due to the passage of time (aches and pains
come and go), but I've also eliminated crunches from my exercise
routine, and do planks instead. I also do more stretching, upper body
strength training, and the "shoulder-blade squeeze"
exercise.]
I expect this will solve my problem. Another thing
that should help is a week away from the piano. I implemented this
cure by flying to Hawaii with my wife for a week of surfing, hiking,
and drinking.
   
We returned yesterday, so it's now back to work
with two hours per day of sight-reading! 










Progress Report with Recordings
March 24, 2008
I continue to make slow but steady progress. While
I see a real difference in how well I sight-read, I'm still surprised
that I haven't progressed further.
I wish I had some revolutionary insights to pass
along to others suffering along this path. I will say that to some
extent, all that matters is doing it. That is, I've talked a lot
about things like recognizing intervals, but if you do enough
sight-reading, that's going to happen whether you try to force it or
not [A note from the future, January 6, 2014:  I no longer think this
is true.  Later chapters will discuss this].
One article I saw said that an important component
of learning sight-reading involved learning hundreds of common
patterns. That's happening for me. That is, I'll see some common
pattern and be able to play it instantly. I can take in larger blocks
of notes at once. There's an indescribable change in how I see the
music.
Unfortunately, I find that even when playing the
simplest of music, I can still have a problem reading some part of
it. And I am still not good at playing anything fast.
I'm hoping that I'm going to progress more quickly
now - as if what I've learned so far will let me gain traction,
and move faster. My #1 short-term goal is to get better at looking
ahead in the music.
Samples of My Playing: Well, I've put this
off long enough - it's time to let you hear some of my
sight-reading (oh, man, do I have to?). Embarrassing, but this is the
best way to show what 3.5 months of heavy-duty sight-reading has
bought me.
The first sample is of the song "On a Slow
Boat to China." Here's the music - not terribly
challenging, but not super easy either.

Tap
here to listen to me sight-reading this for the
first time. Pitiful, huh? You can hear how slowly I have to play it.
But at least I was good about not going back and correcting mistakes,
right? I also noticed, in listening to it and reading along, that I'm
playing some parts the way that I remember the tune, rather than
playing exactly what's written.
Tap
here to hear how I sound after I've read it
through 5-10 times. In this recording, after I read through this
first page, I start playing as if it were a lead sheet. That is, I
ignore what's written, play the chord in the left hand, and play the
melody in the right.
Next is a hymn from my 1937 Christian Science
Hymnal, which I picked up for free from www.PaperBackSwap.com:

Based on my handling of measure 2, I'm probably
not going to heaven, but tap
here to listen to me play this with a church
organ sound.
Now, here's an early classical piece:

Tap
here to hear it sight-read. Beautiful, huh?
Sign me up for Carnegie hall. I have the most trouble with music that
has separate musical lines going on at once. And for those of you who
noticed that I didn't follow the dynamics, phrase markings, or
staccato notations, two words: bite me!
And I'll finish off with three sophisticated
melodies, "Humpty Dumpty," "Goosey Goosey Gander,"
and "Tom Tom the Piper's Son." These are from It's Easy
to Play Nursery Rhymes, which actually has good arrangements with
some surprisingly nice chord voicings.

Tap
here to listen to me knock Humpty Dumpty off
his wall.

 Tap
here to bring Goosey Goosey to life.

Tap
here for my tasteful rendition of Tom Tom.
So ends my recital. Hopefully, when I'm done with
my year of sight-reading, I will be able to sight-read pieces like
these at a normal tempo. We'll see. 










Hit the Accelerator - Playing Faster, Sometimes
April 5, 2008
Well, things are starting to happen. Today I got a
book out from the library that I had borrowed
back in December, and pieces that I could barely get through at 50
BPM I can now read at 80-102 BPM. What's better is that I have a
feeling that the music just flows out. 

The music is very easy, but hopefully this is a
sign of things to come.
Hitting the Accelerator: Prompted by a post
by Akira in a piano forum, I realized that instead of choosing a
tempo at which I make only a few mistakes, perhaps I should speed
things up a bit. That is, play at a speed at which I make lots of
mistakes. This seems to be a good thing.
For the last few days I've been choosing tempos
that are fast enough that I can just barely keep track of all the
notes. Above this tempo, I start to ignore parts of the music
(usually the left hand); at this tempo, I feel like I'm just holding
on by my fingertips.
This works well because it forces me to interpret
the notes quickly, and move my hands quickly.
A lot of people suggest that your sight-reading
will improve rapidly if you play a lot of duets with others. If
practical (it's not practical for me), this is a good idea since it
forces you not to stop and go back and correct your mistakes. But
I'll bet that another reason this is good is that you probably play
things faster than you would if you were practicing alone. 

I'll let you know whether this new paradigm works
for me.
Hymnal on Steroids: Yesterday I received a
copy of Bach's
371
Harmonized Chorales and 69 Chorale Melodies,
which was recommended on a forum. But found that it's like
hymns on steroids, and is too difficult for me now. The print is very
small, too. 










Progress - New Recordings
April 22, 2008
Not much new to report. I have been faithfully
doing at least two hours of sight-reading each morning. I have good
days and bad. I recorded the same songs that I presented in an
earlier chapter (here),
and I'm encouraged that I've improved a bit more than I had realized.
You can visit that chapter to see the sheet music for these
recordings.
Of course, it's not technically sight-reading to
play these pieces again, but it's been a while since I played them,
so you can still make a comparison. For the Rondino, I had a
technical problem when recording, so I had to record it again, so
that one had a little more practice this time around.
Hymn
296 ThenHymn
296 Now
Rondino
ThenRondino
Now
Humpty
Dumpty ThenHumpty
Dumpty Now
Goosey
Goosey Gander ThenGoosey
Goosey Gander Now
Tom
Tom ThenTom
Tom Now










Halfway There - Six Months Hard Labor
June 10, 2008
It's now been six months since I started my piano
sight-reading; I'm halfway towards my goal of two hours per day for
one year. 

I know it doesn't make sense, but I'm both amazed
at how far I've progressed, and disappointed that I haven't gotten
further. Some apparently simple songs give me a lot of difficulty,
however, it's exciting to be able to read pieces which I know would
have been impossible for me to play six months ago.
I've settled into the following routine: I start
sight-reading early in the morning (7 or 8 AM - I'm a morning
person) and read one hour of hymns followed by an hour of other
music. I've read through both hymnals twice. If I'm not having a good
day, I'll allow myself to skip anything with four or more sharps. I
prefer the flat keys - perhaps because of my trombone
background. I especially like Eb.
I'll set the metronome somewhere between 50 BPM
for a hard hymn, and 80 for an easy one. If I like a hymn, I'll
repeat it a few times at faster and faster tempos. Sometimes I'm
surprised to find that it's not that much more difficult at a faster
pace.
For popular music, such as this:

I usually play without the metronome, but will
soon be using the metronome at 50 BPM.
Here's an interesting phenomenon that I've
noticed: sometimes I can be reading a song (a hymn for example),
start thinking about something else, and find that I'm still playing.
I'm neither better nor worse when this happens, but my mind is
elsewhere, and I'm sight-reading on autopilot. I don't know if this
is good or bad, but it is interesting.
Ask some expert sight-readers what they're doing
when sight-reading, and sometimes they'll say "I don't know -
it just happens." I'm hoping that this book is valuable because
I'm reporting what I find as I learn. Perhaps I can report what's
happening for me before I cross over to the other side. Here are some
insights:
It's Not the Intervals,
Stupid! In earlier chapters I spent a lot of time talking about
recognizing intervals instead of individual notes. Well, I now think
that may be a waste of time. As you get better, you are recognizing
patterns of notes, and it doesn't matter whether you try to recognize
intervals or not. It's just going to happen, if you practice enough,
that you recognize patterns. [Note from the future, January 4, 2014:
As you see, I've gone back and forth on this. However, I now believe
that it is the intervals. That is, seeing intervals rather than notes
is important.]
I'm getting into the "I don't know - it
just happens" zone, but let me try to explain with an example.
Here's the start of a hymn from an earlier chapter that is quite easy
for me to play:

When I see this, the notes in the first measure
are seen as "F chord, C chord, Dm chord, C chord." Or maybe
I'd say that my mind is saying "Oh yeah, there's that common F
chord pattern with 1 and 3 in the bass, and 5 and 1 in the right
hand, etc." I'm not always thinking in terms of chords, but
there's often some thought about how the notes make sense.
Those patterns of notes come up so frequently,
that it's just a "recognize it and play it" situation. I
don't know if this is good or bad, but it is what is happening for
me. As soon as a hymn gets out of the typical range of notes, it's
harder to play, because the patterns aren't as familiar. Same thing
for less-common key signatures.
Thinking about intervals does help whenever I see
a pattern such as this:

At which point I don't think about individual
notes, just think about "moving the interval around" in the
current scale.
Again, it may be bad advice to say that you don't
need to pay attention to intervals - I'm just relating what has
been happening with me.
Looking Ahead: I still feel that I'm not
looking ahead enough. I am still forcing myself to do it, at least
when I think of it, and hope that at some point it will become
automatic. This doesn't seem to be something that will just happen as
I keep playing.
Once in a while I do pretty well at looking ahead,
and it feels good. There's a kind of rapid "look here, look
there, up there, down there" feeling that seems to be effective.
Like a little bird flitting around. I rarely am looking forward more
than a half measure or so, unless the current measure is very easy.
What often happens is this: I decide that I'm really going to
concentrate on looking ahead for this piece. I do pretty well until a
difficult measure comes up. Then I get stuck figuring out the notes
I'm playing, and after that have a difficult time getting ahead
again.
I still do less well when skipping to a new line -
not sure what that means.
Good Days and Bad Days: I continue to see
this: one day I feel like I'm doing great, and really getting the
hang of this sight-reading thing, and then the next day I'm amazed at
how bad I am. You might think "Oh, you just happen to play more
difficult pieces on a bad day." However, recently I made a list
of hymns that were quite easy for me to play. On a bad day, I tried
those, and didn't do so well.
Playing without the metronome usually makes me
feel that I'm doing better - guess I must be slowing down at
the more difficult places.
I'll be Twice as Good: If I'm twice as good
at sight-reading on Dec 10, 2008 as I am today, I'll be satisfied. 









Still
Working Away
August 19, 2008
I haven't given up - I'm still working at
it. I've had to take a few days off here and there when I had
important gigs coming up, and needed to work on some pieces. Also, I
have to admit that there are some days when I only work for an hour
instead of two. I've found that it's easiest on my back if I don't
work two hours in a row, and sometimes I don't get back to the piano
for that second hour.
I've cut down on my jazz gigs until December so
I'll have more time for sight-reading. 

I generally do an hour of hymns (I'm coming up on
five times through both hymnals) plus an hour of popular or
traditional music.
I'm still happy about what I've learned but
disappointed that I haven't learned more. This is one of the hardest
things I've done. 

I've also noticed an improvement of my single line
+ chord jazz sight-reading, which is nice.









Practice Session Recorded - Ten Minutes in the Life...
September 4, 2008
Here's a sample of what it sounds like when I
practice sight-reading. This recording is the first ten minutes of my
hymnal sight-reading practice today. I start with Hymn #288 in the
Presbyterian hymnal, and continue through the book from there. 

Tap
here to hear it.
I've mentioned how some days seem better and some
worse. This one was closer to the "worse" side. It will be
a bit painful to listen to at times, but I'd say it gives a fair
indication of where I stand right now. 









I Did It!
December 9, 2008
Today I fulfilled my vow to practice sight-reading
for two hours a day for an entire year! Of course there were some
days that I missed, and some days when I practiced less than two
hours, but I'm sure I put in at least 650 hours of sight-reading. I
read through two hymnals seven times each!
How did it turn out? Well, I didn't progress
nearly as far as I had expected to. For example, I thought that after
that much practicing I would be able to play any hymn at any
reasonable speed. Instead I can play easier hymns at about 85-100
BPM, and most hymns at 60 BPM. I thought I'd be able to rocket
through any "Easy Piano" piece, and play most pop or jazz
music without too much trouble, but that is not the case.
If someone were to say "Hey, Al plays piano,
let's have him accompany us with this Christmas carol music!"
could I do it? Maybe. If the music weren't too difficult, if the
singers weren't too discriminating, or if I had a chance to run
through them a few times, then the answer is yes. Otherwise the
results would be sketchy. Here's what you might expect: these are two
Christmas songs that I've played multiple times, but have not
memorized:
Rudolph
the Red-nosed ReindeerHave
Yourself a Merry Little Christmas
So, while I'm disappointed that I didn't reach
those goals, I am pleased to have made solid progress. I am no longer
a sight-reading dimwit. Sometimes I can read through a new piece
well, and get a feeling for what it would be like to be a great
sight-reader.
Below I'll give advice to others who are just
starting out and talk about where I go from here, but first let's
look objectively at how far I've come.
Progress Recordings: As I've gone along,
I've periodically recorded a small number of songs to track my
progress. Of course, each time I play one of these benchmarks, I
learn it a bit. However, playing them a few times over the course of
a year doesn't make that much difference. I've played one of these
(hymn 296) about seven times (once each time I went through the
hymnal), but I don't think that has made a big difference.
I regret that I didn't record my playing when I
started out. The first progress recordings were made after I'd been
working on sight-reading for 3.5 months. Anyway, here they are.
Hymn
296 After 3.5 MonthsHymn
296 After 4.5 MonthsHymn
296 After 1 Year
Here's
another hymn that I hadn't recorded previously.
Although on a better day I might have done better, these two hymn
recordings give a good indication of where I stand after one year of
sight-reading.
Goosey
Goosey After 3.5 MonthsGoosey
Goosey After 4.5 MonthsGoosey
Goosey After 1 Year
Rondino
After 3.5 MonthsRondino
After 4.5 MonthsRondino
After 1 Year
Humpty
Dumpty After 3.5 MonthsHumpty
Dumpty After 4.5 MonthsHumpty
Dumpty After 1 Year
Slow
Boat to China after 3.5 monthsSlow
Boat after 4.5 monthsSlow
Boat after 1 Year
Although I never recorded it before, I had noted
in an early chapter that after 1.5 months I could play this song:

at 55 BPM without too many mistakes. Tap
here to hear it sight-read today (1 year) at 80
BPM.
Surprisingly, some of these didn't improve much
between 4.5 months and one year. Perhaps I just wasn't playing well
today. Another possibility is that I played too many hymns and not
enough other types of music, resulting in less progress with those
types. Note that after playing Slow Boat two more times, it sounded a
lot better (Slow
Boat after two run throughs). This represents a
benefit of my improved sight-reading - it makes it faster to
practice something. I can read through it multiple times in much less
time.
Note also that I was more nervous than usual -
I knew that I had only one chance to play it right, and that whatever
I recorded would be published here on the Internet.










Advice to
Others Seeking To Improve Their Sight-Reading Quickly
● If you're like me,
it's going to be a lot more difficult than you expect. I
thought that after a month or two, I'd start to gain traction, and
progress rapidly from that point. Instead it's been a slow, steady
slog all year long. Maybe you will learn faster. I generally learn
things pretty quickly, especially if I put in a lot of effort, but on
the other hand, I am over 50 years old, and may have missed the
critical period for learning to sight-read. If you're like me, you
will need a lot of willpower.
● Record yourself
extensively on day one. I waited 3.5 months before recording
myself, mainly because I didn't want any record of how atrocious my
sight-reading was. Now I wish I could compare today's playing with
that of a year ago. 

● If you can afford
the wait, I expect that you'll do better with four years of 30
minutes per day than with one year of 2 hours per day. I don't
have any evidence for this, but I suspect that that's why my 650+
hours of sight-reading didn't pay off as well as expected. 

● Remember in my
earlier chapters I talked about seeing intervals versus notes, things
like that? Well forget it, that's all BS. You just sight-read a
lot and you'll improve. I'm not seeing intervals, I just see the
music on the page and am increasingly able to quickly convert that
into movements of my hands and fingers. [January 4, 2014: I now
believe: (1) Intervals are important, and (2) "just
sight-reading a lot" is not enough to improve quickly.]
● Sight-Read the
type of music you want to play. I worked on hymns over 50% of the
time even though that's not my goal. Hymns are the most comfortable
thing to play and quite enjoyable. Each one is short, you know what
to expect, the harmonies sound great, and most notes fall within a
set range. But unless you want to be a church organist, be sure to
include a lot of other types of music as well. The samples above show
how I improved more for hymns than for other types of music. 

● Finally, I still
feel that looking ahead is an important aspect of good
sight-reading. The better you get, the easier that is, but I
still have to remind myself to consciously look ahead. When I do
that, it seems to help.
Where Do I Go From Here? I'm hooked on
sight-reading, and still want to be good at it. My plan now is to
practice sight-reading at least 30 minutes per day (instead of two
hours). I can see the light at the end of the tunnel, so I'm not
going to quit now. I plan to meet my original goals by this time next
year.









Progress Report - 1.25 Years
March 23, 2009
Since finishing the year of sight-reading, I've
continued reading at least 30 minutes a day, sometimes significantly
more. I'm reading only modern/pop/standards stuff - no hymns or
classical.
I'm quite pleased with my recent progress. It
feels like things are finally coming together. As a side benefit, I'm
noticing more confidence in my jazz reading (that is, reading melody
lines while playing chords). I'm also finding that working with
transcriptions or educational piano stuff like this

is a lot more convenient,
since I can play the examples much faster.
As an example of my progress, today I sight-read
this piece pretty well (but with a lot of mistakes) at about 50 BPM:

I'm realizing that much of my progress is based on
a new-found quick, involuntary understanding of the notes on the
page. That is, I see, I understand, I play. To show you what I mean,
look at the following sentence, but don't read or understand it:
I went to the store.
I'll bet that there isn't one person among you
who could look at that sentence without reading it and understanding
what it meant. That's what I'm now getting with the music. I see the
notes and instantly have a feeling for what they mean and how I'd
move my hands to play them. I also realize that this is something
that takes time to develop.
Shorter Practice Time: Here's a comment
concerning 30 minutes versus two hours per day: One benefit to the
shorter time is that perhaps I do less practicing of bad habits. For
example, it's hard to force myself to look ahead all the time when
playing for two hours. As a result, I'm doing a lot of practicing of
sight-reading without looking ahead. When practicing for a shorter
time, I can focus more on practicing the good habits.
Things I am continually working on that seem to
help:
● Focus on reading
ahead 

● Make sure I don't
look down at my hands at all 

● Feel the keys 

● Always play with
the metronome
So now I'm just continuing to sight-read,
attempting to gradually increase the tempo at which I play songs. 










Progress Report - 1.75 Years
September 15, 2009
Things are still coming together, but more slowly
than expected. I see the end of the tunnel, but I figure it's about
two years away. That is, I expect that in another two years, I'll be
a really good sight-reader.
Before continuing, let me show you where I stand.
Here are two pieces being sight-read, one easy, one a bit harder (tap
on the images for a full-sized version).

Tap
here to hear me sight-read Wabash Cannonball.



 Tap
here to hear me sight-read When my Sugar...
So, I'm
getting the hang of things, but I'm still quite slow. I just can't
keep up if I increase the tempo. (I realize that got some of the
rhythms wrong on the latter song.)
Not Looking at my Hands: One thing that
I'm really, really good at is not looking at my hands. I can read an
entire song, and not even glance down once, even when there are big
jumps. I highly recommend getting this ability nailed. It feels
really cool, and I never have to worry about losing my place in the
music.
There are two things going on here: Feeling the
keys, and knowing where they are.
Concerning feeling the keys, you have to get into
the habit of caressing them all the time. Imagine that you are a
lovesick teenager, and the keys are your girlfriend. You just can't
get enough of touching her/them. 

As for knowing where they are, I should give some
credit to the book Super
Sight Reading Secrets by Howard Richman. His
keyboard orientation drills made me realize that I could move my
finger to a note pretty accurately with my eyes closed, even if I
wasn't starting from a known note. Here's the exercise I do:
I make sure I am sitting right in front of middle
D (that is, with my belly button lined up with the middle of the
middle D key). Then I close my eyes, put my hands in my lap, then
think of a note and move a finger to it. I found that often I get the
note exactly right, and my accuracy improves with this drill. In
other words, the feeling of where your arm is can be pretty good for
hitting the note you want.
Combined with feeling the keys, this ability can
help you eliminate your need to look at the keys. It's true that
finding a note is a lot easier one note at a time, with no time
constraint, than it is when in the middle of some complex song. Also,
I sometimes get "desynchronized" with the keys, and play,
for example, an E when I'm expecting a B (that is, I'm at the top of
two black keys (E) when I think my finger is at the top of three
black keys (B). But once you get some ability and confidence here,
you might find that you can make those big skips without thinking
about them.
I'm hoping that the habit of not looking down at
my hands will get so ingrained in me, that I won't do it even if I'm
playing in public or am nervous.
As an aside, musicians often wonder why they can
play something perfectly at home, but have big problems with the same
piece when they are performing in front of someone.  One reason is
that when nervous, you do things differently.  For example, you may
look at your hands because you are worried that you will hit the
wrong note.  No wonder all hell breaks loose.  I've found that the
best cure for this is to play in front of people as much as possible.
Looking Ahead: Looking ahead as I'm playing
is still a struggle for me, and I continue to work on it. I play
better when I do it, but that just may mean that the song is easier,
and it gives me a chance to look ahead. That is, I look ahead because
the song is easy, the song isn't easy because I look ahead. 

Sometimes I try to look ahead just a half measure
or so. I played prelude one in Bach's Well-Tempered Clavier
yesterday, and was able to zip through it with almost no errors. Why?
Because each measure repeats the same five notes twice, so there's
plenty of time to read and understand the next measure as I'm playing
the current one. If I can just get that same idea working for other
songs, I'll be set. 

That's it for now, sight-reading fans.








Two
Years and Counting
December 10, 2009
Well, I've now been working on my sight-reading
for two years! Where does the time go, huh? I'm continuing to
improve, and more importantly, I'm reaping the benefits of my new
skill:
● It's great to be
able to read and play examples in instructional jazz texts.
● I'm enjoying
learning pieces by reading through them multiple times. For example,
tap
here to hear me play this nice arrangement of
"Have Yourself a Merry Little Christmas" (from the
Reader's Digest book of Christmas Songs).


● I'm finding that
it's much easier to memorize songs when I can read pretty well.
Instead of laboriously reading through a measure or two at a time, I
can more quickly play a segment of the song and commit it to memory.
For example, I've recently memorized Bach's Two-Part Invention #8,
Bach's French Suite 5 Allemande, and Schubert's Scenes from Childhood
(Foreign Lands & People).
Back to the actual sight-reading progress aspect,
I've continued to do about an hour of reading per day. I do more
repeated readings of songs - while technically not
sight-reading, this has the benefit of letting me practice reading at
a higher tempo.
I'm getting more comfortable at sight-reading.
That is, it's less of a strain than it was in the past. Things are
becoming more automatic, and my hands go where they are supposed to
go with less conscious thought.
As mentioned before, I'm good at not looking at my
hands, but I could still be much better at reading ahead. Here are
several examples of my sight-reading, recorded yesterday. They give a
pretty good feeling for where I stand, although I play better when
I'm not making a recording destined for the world wide web.
Slow
Boat to China

Slow
Boat (after four read-throughs)

Imagination

When
You Wish Upon a Star

I'll
Know

Till
There Was You (after one read-through)




That's it for now. I'm
continuing to work on this, and I'll report back in a year! 










Getting Professional Help
January 15, 2011
It's been over a year since my last chapter; now
three years from the start of my quest.
During this last year, I haven't done quite as
much sight-reading as I did during the first two years, since I've
had a lot of gigs and have been working on other piano tasks. I've
done a good bit more non-sight reading, that is, reading the same
piece repeatedly to get better at it instead of memorizing it. I have
even performed a simple piece from music - a first for me.
I've continued improving, but way too slowly.
But today, I took my first lesson with an
accomplished teacher who is confident that she can help me improve
faster! This is big news.
During the lesson she had me sight-read a very
simple classical piece. I did a great job at demonstrating how poorly
I sight-read. I was hampered a bit because I forgot to bring my piano
glasses, and by performance anxiety, but in general I think I
communicated my level of skill in this area.
Some of her initial comments were:
● I should spend
much more time analyzing the piece before I play it, checking
all the way through for what will be happening, noticing patterns,
thinking about the key, etc. 

● Intervals are
indeed important, and I have to get better at thinking about
intervals instead of individual notes. I should be thinking more of
relationships between notes. One exercise is to say the interval out
loud ("second," "third," "fifth," etc.)
either while playing or away from the piano. 

● I need to always
practice not stopping or slowing down; I should make rhythm the first
priority. 

● It's best to start
at a slow tempo, and work my way up.
● I should think
more about where I'm looking. Not only looking ahead, but also making
sure I scan up and down, and not get locked into just the treble or
bass clef. 

● I should pay
attention to the fingering suggestions, seeing them as something that
will help me.
Let me tell you what a big deal this is. I am
very much a "work on my own" guy - a typical INTJ
introvert. That's what kept me from seeking help long ago. In fact,
on the way to my first lesson, I decided that I definitely would not
continue with the lessons. But the teacher was so good, that I knew
continuing would be a good idea.
I asked her whether I could really become a good
sight-reader, and she said "Absolutely!"  She didn't
actually say "Abso-f**king-lutely," but that's the way
she said it, and I could tell that that is what she was thinking.
Another reason this is significant is that I'm a
tightwad. The only reason that I'm retired and thus able to spend
hours a day at the piano is that I've squirreled away most of my
money from an early age. So, to spend $1,300 a year ($50 every other
week) on lessons is a big deal for me.
I'm optimistic that this is going to help, and I
will keep you posted! 










Interesting Observations from Books
March 1, 2011
I've read a lot of books on piano, some good, some
less good. Some I liked were Note by Note, I Really Should be
Practicing, Never Too Late, The Piano Shop on the Left Bank, and
The Inner Game of Music. But here are two observations that are
relevant to my quest for sight-reading nirvana.
In Note by Note, the author describes her
years of giving piano lessons. One adult student was rich, and really
wanted to learn piano fast. So he hired her to give him a six-hour
lesson every day. Can you imagine that? The most interesting thing
about that, was that the student didn't progress any faster than
students who had the normal one hour per week. It suggests that
practicing sight-reading two hours per day is not four times as good
as doing it 30 minutes per day.
The book Never too Late, was written by a
man who took up the cello in his late fifties. He wanted to make the
point that you can indeed teach old dogs new tricks. He said:
If I could learn to
play the cello well, as I thought I could, I could show by my own
example that we all have greater powers than we think; that whatever
we want to learn or learn to do, we probably can learn; that our
lives and our possibilities are not determined and fixed by what
happened to us when we were little.
However, when I read the book, I was struck by how
he had trouble getting good at the cello. If I remember correctly, he
ends by saying that he wasn't that good, but that he was steadily
improving, and would be much better later. However, in researching
him a bit, I found that he died a few years after writing the book.
Sorry to sound crass, but it was indeed too late for him (boy, am I
going to go to hell when I die!).  










Sh*t My Teacher Says
December 6, 2011
My teacher's tips are excellent, but I couldn't
resist naming this chapter like the popular book, Sh*t My Dad
Says.
In a few days I'll be posting my four-year
progress report (OMG), but I wanted to get these great tips out to
you first.
Here's my big tip: You
will make much faster progress if you work with a teacher who is very
good at teaching sight-reading. This advice is coming from someone
(me) who is very independent, and usually likes to work on his own.
I've been taking lessons (twice a month) with a Dr. Robin Miller for
almost a year now, and I think I've progressed as much in that year
than in the three prior years.
Warning 1: There are teachers out there who
are not very good at sight-reading. I called one teacher and told her
what I wanted, and she told me, actually whispering, "Well, I
have to admit that I'm not a very good sight-reader myself."
Warning 2: Even if the teacher is good at
sight-reading, he/she may not be able to teach it well. I took a year
of lessons in the eighties, but my teacher at the time didn't help my
sight-reading much.
I'll tell you about my new teacher, Dr. Robin
Miller. She is on the faculty at Humboldt State University, and she's
been teaching piano for over 35 years. She can sight-read
effortlessly, but more importantly, she sees what I'm doing wrong,
and has a bag of tricks and exercises to help me fix my problems.
I'll show you what I mean below. I have a lesson every other week, at
$50/lesson. Of course it's unlikely that you live close enough for
lessons from her, but for completeness, here is her contact
information:

● Faculty Web Page: Tap
Here


● Email: rashamelamed@gmail.com 

● Phone:
(707) 826-5448
Here are some of the tips she has given me. In
many cases, I knew these things, but wasn't applying them well.
Tip #1: Intervals are Indeed Important
Robin showed me that I need to pay more attention
to intervals. "Hey, Al," you say. "You knew that
four years ago (see this
chapter and this
one)!" True, but although I talked and
thought about it, I was really still paying attention primarily to
the notes. It's frustrating that I was aware of this important key to
good sight-reading, but wasn't really employing it well.
Robin has an exercise in which I say the interval
by which the melody changes with each note as I play a tune. For
example, in this piece:


I would say, out loud, while playing, "Same,
second, second, second, fifth, sixth, same, second" etc. Of
course you can do the same thing for the bassline, some middle part,
or chords. I'm not very good at talking while playing, but this helps
me pay attention to the intervals.
I also created some interval flashcards. It may
seem elementary, but they help me recognize the intervals very
quickly. I use them on my iPod Touch, and I can just scroll quickly
from one to another, and call out the interval. You can download all
the flashcards here.
They look like this:




 So, if you scrolled through those, you'd say
"Sixth! Third! Octave!" Realizing that for seconds,
fourths, sixths, etc. (that is even intervals) one note is on a line,
and the other on a space, helps. This exercise is only difficult when
distinguishing the wider intervals (sixths, sevenths, and so on).
One other trick that I developed on my own to help
see intervals is to transpose the piece to another key. For example,
I might play the above piece in F instead of C. I figure out what the
first notes are, and from then on, I must pay attention only to
intervals, because the notes will be wrong. For example, in the above
song, I'd start with G and F in the left hand, and B natural and F in
the right. On beat three I'd move the bass up a half step, and the
melody down a second (a minor second in this case).
This transposing is extremely slow, and often I
have to go back to the beginning, and start over. But it's very
useful, because you are forced to ignore the notes.
Back to non-transposing playing, here's an example
of how I put all this into practice. Take this hymn:


Starting with the second measure, my fingers would
be on F and C in the left hand, and F and A in the right. For the
next chord, in the right hand, I see that I will still have a third
between the notes, and I will shift this pair of notes down by a
second. In the left hand, I see that the top note, C, is the same,
but that the interval for these two notes is now an octave. So I
leave my left thumb on C, and shift my hand position to that of an
octave, which I know well.
I usually pick the note in each hand that moves
the least, move to it, based on the interval of the change, then use
the interval between the notes to find the other note.
Now, having said this, do I always pay attention
to the intervals and not the notes? No. There are two reasons.
First, after years of thinking about the notes,
it's hard to get away from that. Although I've benefited from my
years of daily sight-reading, these years of doing it the wrong way
have hurt me in this way.
Second, as Robin has pointed out, there are other
ways of looking at the music, or taking in the information while
sight-reading. One of those ways is the notes themselves (another is
the harmonic structure, which I will discuss below).
However, I've felt that paying more attention to
intervals has helped me more than any other tip. If I practice for
too long, I find myself getting away from intervals. Often it helps
to play a piece very slowly, and force myself to consciously think in
the way I described in the above hymn example, explicitly thinking
"OK, that note goes up a second, and the other note is a sixth
below it." Also, if it's too much to do this for all the notes,
I might just concentrate on using the intervals in the bass clef, and
not thinking about how I play the top notes.
Tip #2: Don't do a Reset with Each Chord
This is an example of how having a teacher can be
better than doing it yourself. One day, Robin said, "Let me show
you something. This is how you play this hymn." and she
played it, imitating my style. "Now, this is how I play
it." and she played it her way.
There was an "Aha!" moment, because I
could see immediately that when playing like me, she was essentially
removing her fingers from the keys, then "starting over"
and finding and playing the next notes. When she played her way,
there was this beautiful seamless flow from one chord to the next.
That is, it was about moving the fingers in an efficient way from one
set of notes to the next. It was partly an issue of fingering, but
more an issue of using the changes of the notes rather than the new
notes themselves to play the next chord.
Tip #3: Keep the Beat Going
This is the tip that Robin feels is most
important. Of course I have always known this, but she has made me
work on it more.
Tip #4: Know What to Leave Out
If you keep the beat going, but are having
trouble, you can't slow down. So instead, you have to leave something
out. Dr. Miller explained that the melody has the first priority, and
the lowest note is a close second. That is, you can leave out the
middle notes if you need to.
I pretty much knew that, but here's an exercise
that helps me "cheat" when I get into trouble. Playing a
hymn, Robin would have me play just the outer voices, or just the
inner voices, or some other combination. At first this was extremely
and embarrassingly difficult. I would have thought that leaving
things out would be easy, but I had been seeing the music as a unit.
I found that doing this exercise helped me to leave out some notes
when necessary. Sometimes I'll practice by playing all four voices,
then leaving out one or two for a few measures.
Robin has also noted that I tend to leave out the
bass when I get into trouble, getting caught up in the top voices -
I need to work on that.
Tip #5: See the Harmonic Structure
The number of chords used in a piece are usually
pretty limited, and often predictable, especially in hymns. For
example, you can be pretty sure that the second-to-the last chord
will be the dominant seventh for the key.
Robin's tip is to get used to instantly knowing
what chord is represented by the notes. The exercise she suggests is
to say the name of each chord as you play it. So, for example, for
the first line of this hymn,

 you'd say: F, C, Dm, C, F, C, F, C7, F,
Bb, F, C7, F, C. That bolded C7 might just be some passing tones, but
it seems to work like a C7. Some tunes are not as easy as that one,
with, for example, the tonics of some chords left out, but the basic
idea is the same.
I've been a little resistant to this tip. My
reasoning is that it seems that you are using the notes to figure out
what the chord is, in order to know what the notes are. But you
started with the notes, so what's the point?
But apparently the point is to instantly notice
the chord, helping you to know ahead of time what the notes will be.
I'm going along with this, and it does seem to help. I find that with
the common keys I already recognize many of the chords.
One thing I did to gain awareness of the harmonic
structure of music was to dissect the chords in a few Bach chorales,
and then write my own using those same chords. Here's an example of
one.

It was an interesting exercise, but I'm not sure
how much it helped my sight-reading.
Tip #6: Take a Minute to Look Through a Piece
Before Playing It
This should perhaps be tip #1, because it's one of
the first things my teacher told me. I knew I should be doing this,
but felt that it may help my playing, but wouldn't help my
sight-reading. In other words, I wanted to practice being surprised
by the notes, and dealing with it. But I'm a dutiful student, and I
now take the time to check through, looking for clef changes,
checking out the rhythmic structure, watching for difficult places,
etc. I don't do it as much with hymns, since they are quite
predictable, and I enjoy going from one to next, and noticing the
sound of the change in key. But this is definitely good advice.
BTW, I don't want to imply that I'm playing only
hymns - I also work with modern stuff and non-hymn easy
classical pieces.
Tip #7: Shoulda, Woulda, Coulda
At one point early in my lessons I told Robin,
"Oh, if only my parents had made me take formal piano lessons
when I was in elementary school, I would probably be a good
sight-reader now."  Her three word reply, put things in
perspective. She said, "Oh, shoulda, woulda, coulda." 
OK, that's four words, but it made me realize that my "if only"
attitude wasn't helping. In other words, "Oh, get over it!"
 She also made me realize that I might not have developed the jazz
playing had I had a more standard piano education.
That said, I still fantasize about going back in
time and whispering in my parents' ears when they are sleeping: "Make
Al take piano lessons at age four.  Make Al take piano lessons at age
four."
Tip #8: Don't Overdo the Hymns
I was getting better at hymns, but at one point,
Robin said "No more hymns!"  She explained that hymns
have a very limited range (since they are written for voice), and are
restricted in their rhythmic variety. Thus, I could get very good at
playing hymns, but still have problems with other types of music.
Tip #9: It's OK to Glance at your Hands
This is another tip that I've been resistant to.
Robin explained that you should practice glancing down at your hands
and back up to the music without losing your place. She said that
later on you can play without looking at all, but for now, this is an
important skill to have.
I'll stop here and pass on some more tips in
future chapters.
In three days it will be four years since I
started this crusade, and I'll post a progress report along with
recordings.









Progress Report - 4 Years!
December 10, 2011
Whoa -- I've been working on this for four years!
Hard to believe.
I've worked pretty hard on sight-reading during
this last year, mainly because I've been taking lessons. In the last
six months in particular, I've felt like I'm finally gaining
traction, and seeing a faster rate of improvement. Check out this
chapter for a description of what I've been
working on, and advice about what has helped my playing the most.
Here are some recordings to give you a feeling of
where I stand today.
I've been using the first tunes below for all my
progress recordings, so of course it's not strictly sight-reading
anymore. Also, I've read through my hymnals many times, so although I
don't remember the tunes, I have played them before.

This
is how I played Hymn 296 after
three months
of sight-reading.
This
is how I play it now, after
four years of
sight-reading.

After
three months.
Now.


After
three months.
Now.
Here is a hymn from a Methodist hymnal that I just
got from the library. I have never played it before, but it's
possible that the same song is in the other hymnals I've worked with.

 This
is what it sounds like when I play it.
Here is a non-hymn tune from a library book. I've
never played this, nor do I recognize the tune.


This
is how I sound when I play it (BTW, I'm aware
of the  rhythmic errors I made).
Finally, I've mentioned that one of the benefits
of my sight-reading work is that I can practice tunes and get better
at them without actual memorization. I read through this song a bunch
of times each year, though I've never worked on getting it close to
perfection.

 Tap
here to hear me play it.
And you can hear my regular playing in my most
recent Christmas
Video.
That's it for now. I'm hoping that I'll make
faster progress this next year - see you then! 









Still
Plodding Along
August 29, 2012
Just a quick chapter to let you know that I'm
still working away, and still doing 1-2 hours of sight-reading every
day. The three latest insights from my teacher that have helped
recently are (I'll post more about these when I am less busy):
● Leave stuff out.
At one of my lessons, my teacher said "I sit here thinking how
much better he'd play if only he'd leave things out." That made
an impression on me, so now, if I'm playing a hymn or chorale, and I
start to have problems, I leave out the middle voices. That is, first
priority is the top voice, second is the lowest, and after that, the
middle voices. I can now play the Bach
chorales (slowly), that were way too difficult
when I first encountered them. This works for modern pieces also.
Surprisingly, it takes practice to not play each note. When you
consciously omit some notes, you get better at it.
● Play slowly. I've
known this from the start, but had found that if my metronome was
slower than about 50 BPM, it was hard to follow it. Now, I use the
metronome beats for eighth notes. For example, for a Bach chorale, I
might set it to 60 BPM. 

● Learn and see the
harmonic structure of a piece. That is, try to understand what chord
notes make, and how that chord functions. For example, "These
notes make up a G7." I never thought this would help. "What,
I see the notes and figure out what chord it is, to understand the
notes? How would that help, since I already know what the notes are?"
Well, it does seem to help, partly because I know what notes to
expect next. For example, in the last measure of a Bach chorale, I
know there's going to be some kind of standard cadence (for example,
in the key of C, I might expect an F chord, a G7 chord, and finally a
C chord). Even if I don't get all the notes, I can fake it. But it
also seems to help me put my fingers down in the right places. 

Hang in there fellow sufferers - more later.










Progress Report - Five Long Years!
December 10, 2012
Oh, man, five years gone, and I'm still not that
good a sight-reader. Much better than before, but I have a long way
to go. There are days that I want to give up on this, but I keep
working at it.
I've been doing some reading every day, except
that I took about a month off leading up to a solo gig that I had in
early December. That is, during that time I put all my effort into
working on tunes for that gig, and did no sight-reading. That month
saw some good improvement in my solo work, and showed me that my time
spent on sight-reading is time taken away from other aspects of my
playing. That is, it reminded me that there is a cost for working so
hard on sight-reading.
That gig is over, I'm back to daily sight-reading,
and I'm trying something new. I've concluded that one of my problems
is that I pay too much attention to the note names and not to the
intervals. I've discussed this several times before (for example,
here).
Because I've spent years not attending to the intervals, my brain has
gotten stuck reading notes. This is a case where I've been practicing
the wrong thing.
My best trick for fixing this is to transpose a
tune to another key (mentioned here).
When I do that, I have to pay attention to intervals, because the
notes are wrong.
In the past, I've used transposing in this way:
I'll play a hymn or two transposed, and then I'll go back to normal
reading. After I do that, I seem to pay attention to intervals a
little more, but soon go back to my old bad habits.
So my new system is to, each day, play two hymns
or chorales transposed, and then not do any more sight-reading.
Perhaps if I do that for a month, I can kick my mind into the
interval gear.
Note that when transposing, I think about
intervals only. I'm not allowed to see the note and figure out what
note I'll play. I only do that for the first chord of the piece. From
then on, I play based on the intervals from one chord to the next. I
don't want to get good at transposing, I just want to use transposing
as a tool to help me attend to intervals. 










A Month of Intervals Only
February 4, 2013
Here's a report on a trick I've used that helps me
pay attention to intervals.
After years of paying attention to the notes and
not the intervals, I needed a way to break myself of this habit. In
other words, when I look at something like this in the treble clef:


I must force myself to see it as a sixth with C as
the lower note (or as a sixth with A as the upper note), instead of a
C and an A. You may say, "But, Al, what's the difference? C and
sixth or C and A - you still have two things to notice."
But there are three advantages.
First Advantage: My "muscle memory"
knows what a sixth feels like. That is, my hands can form a sixth
without much conscious thought. So, instead of seeking out a C and an
A, my hand just forms the right interval, and all I need to do is put
it in the right place.
Second Advantage: As I go from one note or
chord to the next, using the intervals can be more efficient. For
example, for the first two chords here (treble clef):

thinking in intervals is more efficient. For the
second chord, instead of thinking "find an E and a G" I can
think "keep the top note the same as the last chord, and form a
third."
Third Advantage: When the music has
switched clef, or has a lot of ledger lines to deal with, thinking in
intervals will work better. I am so used to having the lower clef be
the bass clef, that when it's not, I have to actively inhibit the
note names that come to my head as I play. And when I've got a bunch
of ledger lines involved, I don't have time to count them. When using
intervals, both of these problems magically disappear. 

So, assuming that it's best to notice intervals,
how do you learn to do it? For me, I could tell myself "Notice
the Intervals, Stupid!" but I'd still tend to think about the
individual notes. My teacher would have me say the intervals as I
played, "Sixth! Third! Fifth!" but I would still
predominantly attend to the notes. This didn't really work. That is,
I'd know what a sixth or a seventh looked like, but I didn't have
that instant recognition.
I needed a magic wand that would make me forget
the note names, so I would have to use intervals. I sometimes wished
that I were starting over, didn't know the note names, thus learning
intervals.
That wand doesn't exist, but I came up with
something almost as good. It's a trick that makes the notes wrong,
so that I'm forced to use only intervals.
The trick is to transpose! If I play a piece in a
different key than the one in which it's written, the notes are
wrong, but the intervals are right. Perfect!
For example, let's say that I play this:


but instead of playing it as written, I play it in
the key of C. I will be forced to use intervals only, because all the
notes are wrong!
Technically, I do it like this: The first chord
has the root as the bottom note and also the top note (F). In the key
of C, those notes are C instead of F. In the left hand, I form a
third with my fingers to play a C and an E. In the right hand, I form
a fourth, playing a G and a C.
Going to the second chord, I notice that in the
left hand I'm just going to move that third down one step (a second),
and in the right, I'm just going to repeat the lower note.
From the second chord to the third, I notice that
in the left hand, the lower note goes down by a second, and I form a
fifth with my fingers. In the right hand, the lower note goes up a
step, and I form a third. And so on through the entire hymn.
I've dabbled with this trick off and on, but
because I went back to regular old reading, the use of intervals
never stuck. So I decided that for one month, I would only play
transposed music. That is, no notes, only intervals for a month.
I set three rules:
1. I played at least two hymns per day (I made it
easier on myself by working with hymns - the main purpose here
is to notice intervals, and for this, hymns should work as well as
other types of music). A big advantage of hymns is that when you play
a wrong note it is immediately apparent.
2. I only allowed myself to read notes for the
first chord of a line, unless I got into trouble three times. Since
each chord depends on the one before it, once you made a mistake,
it's hard to recover. I didn't allow myself to recover by reading the
notes. Instead, I made myself go back to the beginning of the line
and start again. But if I screwed up three times, I allowed myself to
cheat until the next line.
3. I allowed myself to play in "easy"
keys, since the benefit of the exercise is independent of key. So I
usually transposed to C, and if a hymn was in C, I'd transpose to F.
Did It Work? Yes. Was it a miracle cure?
No, but I am now better at attending to intervals rather than notes.
In other words, I can more quickly "see" a sixth than I
could before. I find myself using intervals even when not
transposing.
I found that the technique works best when there
is one note in a hand that moves less than a fourth. That's usually
the case (as it is in all of the chords in the above example). When
transposing, I ended up with a system in which I moved a finger to
whichever note moved the least, then formed the interval to get the
other note. For example, for the left hand in the above example,
going from the third chord to the fourth, I would move the lower
finger down a second, then form an octave with my fingers.
Note that I got better at playing transposed. It's
still a struggle, but my improvement proves that I am faster at
seeing intervals. Also, by not going back to regular playing each
day, I never erased the gains that I made.
I currently see it like this: working with
intervals is another tool in my toolbox. Sometimes it will help my
sight-reading, and other times I will use other tools. For example,
when thirds move in stepwise motion, as in chords 3-7 in the treble
clef of the above example, thinking of intervals is absolutely the
way to go. In other instances, it might help more to think of the
harmonic structure or notice the notes themselves.
The bigger the interval, the more problematic it
is. For example, in the fourth chord of the above example, left hand,
I might think "That's an octave. Or is it? Let's check, C, C,
OK, it's an octave." So I still have work to do. 

I still need to remember to use this tool. For
example, when under the gun, playing something for my teacher, I'm
less likely to use intervals.
I plan to use a refresher course of this, and do
another month of intervals-only training again. 









Or Not!
December 10, 2013
Well, I am done spending one or more hours per day
on sight-reading. This is the "-- or Not" section of the
"Becoming a Great Sight-Reader - or Not"
book. I've spent six years working hard on sight-reading, and I have
not become a great sight-reader.
I initially called this chapter "I Give Up!"
In a way I am giving up, but, on the other hand, I have improved my
sight-reading significantly. I've decided that my brain is just not
wired for sight-reading, and pursuing this any longer is not a good
use of my time. 

A better "spin"
might be "I've improved my sight-reading enough, and now I'm
going to move on to other things." But after six years of
concerted effort, I am only a mediocre sight-reader.
I'm quite sure that
I did everything right. I practiced diligently for thousands of hours
(literally) and I worked with an excellent teacher, but it just
didn't happen. It is pretty disappointing, because I had really
looked forward to being a good reader, and a good all-round pianist.
On the other hand, I am pretty happy with my jazz playing, and the
extra time I have to devote to jazz tasks (e.g. new licks, memorizing
more tunes, working on my sound, transposing, transcribing,
listening, technique, etc.) is already paying off.
I still practice
jazz and technique several hours per day, I'm just not devoting much
time to practicing sight-reading. Perhaps I will add back some
dedicated sight-reading practice, but right now I'm taking a break
As I write this
chapter, I'm reminded of how much I want to be a good sight-reader.
Perhaps I will continue working on it. However, I've learned that
"Just do 15 minutes a day, and you are bound to improve
quickly," is not necessarily true for me. One thing I might do
is just work on modern tunes rather than on classical pieces, for
which I have less use.









Sight-Reading Dos and Don'ts 

January 4, 2014
On the title page, I
suggested that you "Follow my quest for sight-reading nirvana,
and learn what you should and shouldn't do."  So, even though I
never reached sight-reading nirvana, here are some sight-reading dos
and don'ts that I've discovered:
● Do hire a teacher
who is good at sight-reading, and good at teaching. If  I'd done that
on my first day, I think I would have doubled my first year progress
(woulda, shoulda, coulda, huh?). 

● Don't assume that
if you just sight-read a lot, you will get better. This may be true
for some people, but you'll probably get better faster if you
practice the right way.
● Do learn to pay
attention to intervals rather than notes. It's easier said than done,
but worth the effort.
● Don't look at your
hands.
● Do endeavor to
look ahead as you read.
● Don't try to look
way ahead - a note or two ahead may be all you need.
● Do be annoyed that
the positions on the treble and bass clef represent different notes,
but deal with it because it's not going to change.
● Do play at a
steady pace and don't stop to fix mistakes. Playing along with
someone else is a great way to force you to keep going.
● Do practice
playing with your eyes closed. It's challenging and fun, and helps
you find keys without looking.
● Do read through
hymnals, but realize that you also need to practice with other types
of music.
● Don't assume that
one two-hour session of sight-reading is as good as four half-hour
sessions.
● Do make a
recording of your sight-reading when you start out so that you will
be able hear your progress as you go along.
● Do leave stuff
out. That is, instead of slowing down, leave out some harmony notes,
for example. This is a skill that should be practiced.
● Do enjoy your
playing rather than just seeing it as a means to an end.








Loose Ends
In proofreading this manuscript, I've noticed four
important topics that I left out: musicality, rhythm, dynamic
markings, and fingerings.
Sounding Musical: When
I listen to my progress recordings, I notice how unmusical (robotic?)
they sound. I was working so hard on playing the right notes, that I
forgot to make it sound good. Don't do that (hard advice to follow)!
I also remember
playing a tune for some friends at a piano party, playing the the
first chorus by reading the music, and then playing the next as I do
a jazz tune.  At the end, they all immediately said that I sounded
too stiff and mechanical for the first chorus.
Rhythm:
If you are very good at interpreting the rhythmic information in the
music, it will help your sight-reading.  If you have to, for example,
think about how that triplet will sound, your reading is going to
suffer. If this is a problem for you, I recommend the book Modern
Reading Text in 4/4 For All Instruments
by the famous jazz drummer, Louis Bellson.  Sit down and sing the
rhythms in that book.
Dynamics: I
always give this the lowest priority when sight-reading, much to the
chagrin of my teacher. If the tune isn't too hard, then I incorporate
dynamic markings.  Perhaps I shouldn't do it that way, but that's
what I do.
Fingering: My
teacher explained that the fingerings are there to help me, so I
should pay attention to them.  I countered that if Donald Trump were
whispering stock tips in my ear while I was playing, it would also be
to help me, but I've already got enough things to think about.  Once
in a while I'll notice a fingering, but sheesh, leave me alone, I'm
busy!








Conclusion
I've written this book mainly for adult pianists
who would like to improve their sight-reading skills. Here's the
conclusion from my six years of dedicated sight-reading practice.
If you're like me,
you can improve a lot, but you may never reach sight-reading nirvana.
Boy, what a
Debbie-Downer! By nirvana, I mean that state in which you can
sit down and play a relatively difficult piece that you've never seen
before. By relatively difficult, I mean something like a prelude or
fugue from Bach's well-tempered clavier, or a Christmas song, or any
of the pieces in the Easy Classics to Moderns books.
The professional
accompanist for my wife's community choir, can play many, many
complicated pieces, and they all sound great. My quest has taught me
that although I'm generally very good at learning things, this is
something I will never be able to do.
The most important part
of that conclusion is the phrase "If you're like me." 
I'm sure that many of you will have less trouble than I did, and will
make large gains in just a few months. 

And, I'm not saying
that if you think you're like me you should give up. I am saying that
you shouldn't have unrealistic goals, and you shouldn't be
discouraged if your progress is slow.
I hope that this
doesn't sound too negative. I'm really glad of the progress that I've
made. And, actually, writing this book has made me want to work more
on sight-reading, so I have continued spending 15-30 minutes per day
sight-reading, concentrating on the kind of music I'm most likely to
need to play.
Now I need a drink, and
a phone book to destroy!
If you got something
out of this book, please give me a six-star rating on Amazon. Or
five-stars, or whatever.
And watch for my next
book, Becoming a Sex God - or Not!









Would You Do Me a Favor?
Thank
you for reading my book (or at least skipping to this page). I hope
you enjoyed it.

I
have a small favor to ask. If you got something out of this book,
could you take a minute and write a short review on Amazon? I read
all my reviews, and enjoy getting feedback about my writing. I'm not
in this for the money, but I'd like to share my tips with as many
people as possible, and if I have more good reviews, more people will
buy it. 


Please
click here to write a review for Becoming
a Great Sight-Reader—Or Not!

Feel
free, as well, to send me an email at FoggyBeach@gmail.com.
I will personally respond to all the emails I receive, unless I
become as popular as Stephen King or J.K. Rowling, in which case
someone from my staff will reply to you.

For
any updates, or to find out about my other books, please visit
AlMacyStuff.com.











About the Author
Al Macy lives in far northern California, and
isn't actually cross-eyed.
Acknowledgments
Thanks to my wife, Lena, who is an
excellent proofreader, despite being Swedish.  She is helping with
the research for my next book.
Thanks to clker.com and
hasslefreeclipart.com for some of the images in this book.















