




Become a Genius:
Secrets To Increase Your Brain Power, Speed Reading, Learning Efficiency, And Advanced Memory












Copyright © 2015
 
By Marco Guerrero
 
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced in any form without permission in writing from the author. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, mechanic, electronic, photocopying, recording, by any storage or retrieval system, or transmitted by email without the permission in writing from the author and publisher. For information regarding permissions write to author at:
 
guerrero.marcoa@gmail.com.
 












Other Books by Marco Guerrero
 























Introduction
 
Three and a half years ago, I started my Business degree in one of the toughest universities in Western Canada.  Soon after I had my first class, I was panicking -I thought I was not smart enough and I was not going to make it through the four years. 
 
I realized it took me hours just to read one chapter of the textbooks, and even after reading it for hours I did not remember what I had just read and I could not make sense, or come into a smart classroom discussion about these topics... So I went ahead and started researching the best and most simple ways to help me through this nightmare. 
 
After months of researching, I found the best techniques and applied them in my life. They have definitely helped me get through my first three and a half years of university, and now I am in my last semester upon graduation with an outstanding GPA. I am now able to read almost 20,000 words a minute, I can memorize large texts, and I definitely feel smarter and smarter.
 
So, I decided to write and share my secret - these simple techniques helped me not only in my academic life but also in many other aspects of my life. 
 










Who is this book for?
 
Do you want to read up to 25,000 words a minute?
 
Do you have difficulty in memorizing? Do you simply want to increase your memorization capacity?
 
Are you interested in increasing your brain power and reaching your potential?
 
 
Well then this book is for you!










What will this book teach you?
 
This book contains proven tips and strategies on how to read faster, to increase capacity for memorization, and to increase your brain power to reach your potential. 
 
However, this book is no magic. Reading this book alone will not help you reach your potential. I strongly encourage you to not only read my book, but to also take action and apply strategies I teach you, you into your life. 
 
Once you start applying the strategies, you will see amazing results!
 
Now, if you are ready to commit and put in this extra effort, then you are ready to start reading this book... 
 
 
Let's jump in!










 
Table of Contents
 
Introduction
Who is this book for?
What will this book teach you?
Table of Contents
Super Reading (Speed Reading)
Skimming
Scanning
Meta guiding
Rapid Serial Visualizations (Software guided speed-reading)
See it to Believe it (Visualization)
Important tips
Memorization (Increasing Memory Ability)
Repeat, Repeat, Repeat (Rote learning)
Mnemonic
Chunking
Unleash Your Power (Increasing Brain Power)
Mind Mapping
Critical and lateral Thinking
Mental stimulation
Important points to note
Final Words
 










Super Reading (Speed Reading)
I know reading can be tedious especially when you have to read volumes of books, hundreds/thousands of emails, blogs, letters and reports to get whatever information you might need. Can you imagine how much time you would use? I know that you would want to do it much faster so that you have time to do other things or read even more. 
Most of our reading speed is appalling. For instance, you could be the kind of person who has to say every word in your mind, which means that your reading speed is almost at par with your speech, which is between 120-200 words per minute. Obviously, this speed won't make you read through piles of books and other reading material within a short time. This doesn't mean that you can never learn how to read faster. In fact, you can train yourself to read 25,000 words every minute. I know that is impressive because you can read at lightning speeds with high level of comprehension. So, how do you start reading faster? Before you begin, it is important to note that learning to speed read takes time; you shouldn't be expecting to move from reading 150 words per minute to 2000 words per minute in a day or two! As you get started, you should know that you should stop reading with your inner voice and start reading with your eyes. Before you get started, you should avoid keep in mind that you have to stop some of the bad reading habits that you may be having presently. Here are a few of them:
#1: Regression
Regression happens when you have to look back over text that you have already read. Most of us do this just to re-read the word so that we can get a clearer meaning. The truth is that this wastes time and makes you a slow reader whether you are re-reading a familiar phrase or unfamiliar one. You can stop regression by covering the text that you have read so that you won't feel the temptation to re-read it. You can also use software that display a single word or sentence at a time.
#2 Sub vocalization
This is where you read every word as though you are speaking to someone. This makes your reading speed to match your speaking speed, which means that you really cannot read volumes of books with that habit because you are a slow reader. Ending sub vocalization comes with practice and discipline. You can start creating pictures of what you are reading as opposed to seeing them as individual texts. In any case, do you hear words when someone speaks to you about his or her mansion or do you picture how the mansion looks like during the conversation? You should also learn to keep your mouth busy so that you can stop focusing too much on speaking what you are reading. Another important tip for dealing with sub vocalization is to concentrate 100% when reading.
#3 Slow fixation rate
If you have to move your eyes from one word to the next, you really cannot read much faster. Actually, do you know that you are likely to be slow when reading complex text than simple ones because your fixation rate is considerably low? If you fixate on one word at a time, your average reading speed will be the time you spend fixating multiplied by the total time. So, if you want to read faster, you have to work towards ensuring that the fixation rate is as low as possible. You can deal with fixation problems through expanding your vocabulary and familiarizing yourself with the subject matter. You can also start using photo-reading technique to increase your reading speed.
Now that you know what you shouldn't be doing when reading, let's get started on the techniques you should adopt in order to start reading through text at impressive speeds.









Skimming
Skimming involves visually searching the sentences of a page for clues to meaning. Although this technique will come naturally for some people, it can also be an acquired practice. Most of those who practice skimming are adults who are simply trying to get some information about a subject matter; you really cannot use this technique to prepare for an exam! Adults seem to be more interested in knowing general content in a text as opposed to gaining deeper understanding or for mere entertainment. 
When you use skimming, you can start reading up to 700 - 800 words per minute, which is really impressive compared to the normal reading speed, which stands at about 200 to 230 words per minute.  
You can do this through reading the first and last paragraphs and then reading all the last sentences of all paragraphs. As you master how to skim, you have to understand how the text is organized given that different authors or writers structure their content differently. For enhanced comprehension, you should read the text in detail so that you are aware of the general information in the text. Skimming is best suited for reading non-fiction material since all you have to do is to go through the headings, and first paragraphs and sentences. Many people may easily confuse skimming text for scanning. Let's take a look at what scanning is to eliminate the confusion. 









Scanning
Scanning entails reading through text just to look for specific information; you could even read an entire book just to look for specific points. This is unlike skimming where your goal is to get a general idea of what the content is all about. For instance, you could scan a book to look for specific information such as the middle name of a certain character in the book or the day when a certain event took place. Although almost everyone can scan, it is important to know how to scan effectively. Here are the steps on how to go about it:
Understand the structure of whatever content you are reading to make it easy to locate what you are looking for. This will save you lots of time that you would use going through each page or paragraph. The structure can be such that the text is arranged in paragraphs, chapters, headings, chronologically, alphabetically or any other format. The best way to go about it is to run your finger on the text and follow it just to ensure that you don't regress. Keep in mind that the more you do it, the better you will become at it.









Meta guiding
This technique involves using an object as a pointer through the text. You can either use a pen or your finger as a guide for your eyes as you read through the text. When using a pointer, your eyes will significantly move faster through the text as opposed to normal reading. The idea of using objects to guide your eye through the reading text is that you create an invisible shape on a page of text in order to broaden the visual span across the text at once. The shape gives your eye the text that is meant to be read at once. This means you will read more information over a shorter period as opposed to if you read the specific text word by word.
Pointers will guide your eyes to the specific words meant to be read, which significantly makes you read much faster. This is because it can help you reduce the internal speech or the silent speech that goes on in your head whenever you are reading something which causes you to read slowly. I already mentioned that this is called sub vocalization. Although sub vocalization is a natural process in reading, it tends to burden the cognitive resources, which significantly reduces your reading speed.
To reduce the sounding of the internal speech in your head count 1, 2, 3, 4 over and over in your head as you read. Start slowly then quicken the numbers when you have adjusted. Just ensure that you understand the content when you read as you count instead of listening to your speech. The point is that you should understand the content of the material as normal but not with it sounding in your head.
You can also break sub vocalization by reading blocks of words that are much harder to sub vocalize. Sub vocalization is only possible when you read word by word; reading in groups eliminates the chances of this internal speech that slows down your reading speed.
During the first stages of practice, you will notice that it can be harder to completely eliminate internal speech. When you notice you are falling back, pause your reading and stop yourself each time you notice the silent speech creeping back. You can also chant sounds as you read to stop this speech; the chant sounds should be irrelevant to the text you are reading and should be uniform to ensure that you are not distracted from the contents of the main text. It can be easy to get caught in the chant and not remain keen on the text, which means that it will make it harder for you to achieve fast speed-reading with high levels of comprehension. Whichever method you use, it is important to continue to comprehend the contents of whatever it is that you are reading.
Start the counting slowly as you read since starting with a fast pace might make it hard to comprehend what you are reading since your mind is not used to that. The whole point of starting slowly is for your mind to adapt first. Find a balance between speed and understanding; that's the only way it will be worth it. 
The whole point of Meta guiding is for you to be able to read a chunk of information at once and have the information imprinted to your subconscious for storage making it easy to retrieve the information later.









Rapid Serial Visualizations (Software guided speed-reading)
This is a more recent technique of speed-reading. Rapid serial visualization is in digital format, and more and more apps are being built to aid you in your quest for learning speed-reading. In this particular technique, you will read through a screen as opposed to text written on a page. You will have single words flash across the screen so your eyes focus on one word only. You will only read one word at a time. You can start with a much slower pace to get your mind used to it. When it adapts, you can increase the speed of the words on the screen meaning your reading speed increases. 
When you use rapid serial visualization to help you in reading, you will be able to build focus and mental alertness, which are key requirements for you to achieve reading fast. Rapid serial visualization is made possible through different applications, which have been specially designed for making speed reading easy. Here are a few of them to get you started:
Spreed
Spreed is chrome extension that flashes words on your screen for you to read. It is just like the normal way you access the web only that its aim is to enhance your reading. You select the text you want from a web page just as you normally would. Once selected, spreed starts flashing the entire text word by word. That way, you read more words in a lesser time.
OpenSpritz
Open spritz addresses the issue of space consumed by traditional reading materials. This includes saving on space otherwise occupied by screen or books occupying the table space and shelves. Most reading programs address this by resizing the size of the text so that it takes up lesser space than normal. Small sized text can be quite frustrating and uncomfortable to read.
To address these issues, spritz offers compact text streaming where words are flashed one at a time ensuring you don't strain over a large chunk of small font text. By flashing one word at a time the software doesn't have limitation in terms of space therefore the text will be as large as you are comfortable reading. With this software, you also won't have to move your eyes across the page as you read, which would be the case with a large chunk of information. 
With open spritz software, one letter of each word flashed across the screen is highlighted to make you focus and maintain a constant eye position. This ultimately results to faster reading speed.
The Spritz technology also allows for the integration of photos, maps and videos together with text. This makes reading more fun and interesting. Additionally, the use of multimedia is a great way to promote a more effective communication platform.









See it to Believe it (Visualization)
As we discussed, Visualization entails creating mental pictures of whatever text you are reading as opposed to reading word for word. It will be much easier to comprehend and even understand chunks of text that you have converted into mental images. It is just similar to verbal communication in that you don't have to listen to what someone is trying to describe but picture it. In doing visualization, you have to relate the information with normal (everyday) activities in order to associate what you are reading with such activities. It could be pictures, movies, photos, places or anything else that you can use as a mental hook. You can then combine this technique with those described above for greater comprehension since you will be creating mental pictures as you read through the text while using meta guiding technique. This means that you won't have to worry about regression in the process of visualization. 
 
Other speed reading techniques include photo reading and quantum speed reading each of which can help you read more than 10,000 words per minute. We won't go into much detail about them in this book since these are really not for beginners. The effectiveness of these speed reading techniques in comprehension has also been questioned; that's another reason why we won't go into details about how to speed read using these techniques. 









Important tips
#1: For you to master the art of speed-reading, you have to keep practicing. This won't be a day's activity. 
#2: If you are a beginner in speed reading, start with books or texts which are easy and you find enjoyable. This will increase the chances of you mastering speed reading after which you can start applying it in reading more advanced text.
#3: As you go about speed reading, take note that not all documents can be speed read so be wise in choosing that which you will speed read. For example, a legal document written with legal jargon can be quite challenging to speed read and still be able to understand it if you are not an attorney. 
#4: Take words in groups or chunks when reading as opposed to a single word. Hold the book or the screen a bit farther from the eyes. This will ensure that you can take in more words than you normally would. As you do this, ensure that it is just far enough not to cause you to strain to see the words.
#5: Stop going back and forth through the text. Regression could be making you to skip a certain part of text then come back to read it later. You may also be the kind of person who has to re-read text to understand it better. To increase your reading speed, read one paragraph after the other and don't go back at it again. Train yourself to do this repeatedly so that it becomes a habit to only read once through the text while ensuring you maintain comprehension.
#6: Read when your mind is most alert and active. Start with materials that are most important then go back to reading what is not that important such as leisure material. Always prioritize your reading into important, moderate and least important. This will reduce chances of going back and forth for the purposes of comprehension.
#7: Time yourself whenever practicing so that you know if you are making progress. The lesser the time it takes you to read and comprehend, the more you know you are making progress.
#8: When reading, first skim through the material for main ideas to know which parts need more concentration and which ones don't. This way, you do not waste your time on irrelevant stuff therefore lessening the time you spend reading the text.
#9: Work towards keeping off external distractions such as noise and ensure that the area is properly lit.










Memorization (Increasing Memory Ability)
Memorization is the deliberate mental process undertaken to store information in the memory for later remembrance; it can be bible verses, pictures, movies, music, people's names, or stories.
Your brain in itself never loses information that it receives; it has the capacity to store it all. When you forget things, it means that your brain failed to store the information properly in the first place, which means that such information cannot be retrieved. It could also mean that your brain doesn't have the ability to retrieve information, which means that you cannot remember what you want and when you want. Forgetfulness could also mean that there was failure to store that particular information appropriately for easy retrieval making it hard to remember that information.
We all know how important it is to remember different types of information in our life. So, we won't go into details about that. However, few of us know how they can actually eliminate or at least reduce forgetfulness. Let's discuss some of the most effective memorization techniques you can use to increase your memory ability. 









Repeat, Repeat, Repeat (Rote learning)
This technique focuses not only on understanding of the concept but also on the memorization of concepts by means of repetition.
When learning using this technique, you will have to repeat whatever you are learning numerous times out aloud or write it down repeatedly until you master it comfortably such that if you are asked about it, the concept or the list comes from your memory without struggle. The idea behind rote learning is that you should be able to recall the subject of study much easier by repeating it more times during the learning phase. 
One category of rote learning is known as Vedic chant, which has been used for thousands of years to master and remember concepts for a longer period without studying it over and over again. Vedic chant was majorly used for the preservation of ancient intonation and lexical accuracy for very long periods. Vedic chanting involves reciting of text in a certain way so that it doesn't end up being distorted even when passed on to another person.
Rote learning can also help with short-term remembrance for those who have a problem with recalling things in the short term.
 
When you are trying to master the art of rote learning, read over whatever you want to recall. Classify the information into batches then recite them over and over again until it is stored up in your mind. If you feel comfortable that it has been stored, take a break of a day or two then test yourself; that's when you will know that you have truly mastered rote learning.
Research shows rehearsal of new information then incorporating with old information that is related to it will give you a deeper understanding of the content. This is a good way to improve your memory.









Mnemonic
A mnemonic is a learning technique that aids with information retention. It makes both learning and memorization easier. The main aim of using a mnemonic is to translate information into a form that the brain can retain better. Research shows that the most simple and creative mnemonics are the ones that are most effective in aiding memorization.
In this memorization technique, you will use a special word or poem to remember particularly longer lists. Mnemonic generally relies on easy to remember constructs that can be linked back to the data meant for remembrance. You could use this technique to remember the colors of the rainbow in order or the planets in the galaxy. These two contain many subjects, which can be quite difficult to remember especially in the order in which they exist. To remember these, you can compose a song or a poem consisting of the first letter of each subject and each time you recite it, you write down these subjects in their order. The human mind is likely to remember that interesting poem or special word as opposed to memorizing the nine planets of the galaxy!
 There are several types of mnemonics and they include the following:-
#1 Mnemonic link system (story method)
This involves forming a poem or a song or a creative sentence using the first letters of the words in the list. It makes it more interesting and simpler to remember as opposed to the actual contents of the list. Apart from the creative sentences, you will also incorporate visualization, which is a great way of making you remember easily. You can create an association between the contents and the creative story. As you do this, create a visualization that helps in linking each element of the list. Each time you recite or tell the story, you can easily retrieve the actual list that you intend to remember. 
The problem with this method is that if you forget any element in the list, you might end up forgetting everything else. It might also be tedious if you have to remember a considerably long list. That's why the peg system comes in:
#2 Peg system
This mnemonic method is majorly used for remembering longer lists. First, you pre memorize a list of words and classify elements that associate with the numbers they represent. These words form a peg. You can use peg lists created from letters or rhymes since they are much simpler to learn and memorize.
#3 Major system
This technique is majorly used in memorizing lists comprising of numbers. You first take the numbers in the list and change them into consonant sounds. A long list of consonants can be quite challenging to master so you add vowels in between them where necessary so that the relevant group become actual words. This technique makes it easier and simpler to remember the numbers as words tend to stick in your mind better.
#4 Loci system
This method uses visualization to organize and recall information. It makes the whole process of memorizing easier and more interesting. Items to be remembered in this list are each associated with a specific location.
The loci system relies on memorized spatial relationships to create some sort of order and recollect the information stored in your memory. As you learn this method, you will be required to memorize the exact layout of specific buildings or the arrangement of shops, which is composed of a number of discrete loci that you want to associate with the elements of a list.
You check through each loci and commit what it is you want to remember to the specific existing feature; it could be a building or whatever it is you choose. When you have mastered the exact specification of the feature you have attached to the list, it makes it easier when you are trying to recall. You simply walk through or next to the locus and allow the previous information to come back without straining. It is actually that simple.
     #5 Use acronyms
This mnemonic method is widely used for memorization. It uses the first letter of each word on the list and forms words with them. Unlike the major system where you form a word for the entire list, when using acronyms you will form several words that will form a poem or a song. For example when it comes to the colors of the rainbow, the first three are red, orange and yellow. Picking the first three will form words like Richard of York to represent the first three colors of the rainbow so each time you say those three words, you will always retrieve the colors of the rainbow in their exact order.
As you form these words, use rhythms and rhymes or attach a catchy tune to make it more interesting since this will be much easier to remember.
 
For success in memorization when using mnemonics, always establish connections and associations between new information and that, which it, has stored up. The more associations there are surrounding a particular fact, the higher the chances of bringing that information to your mind. Also, be keen on the methods that require visualization as recalling will be much easier. This will also reduce the chances of confusion.
Why use mnemonics?
#Mnemonic methods provide a memory bridge to recall information that would have been otherwise harder for you to remember.
#With the arranging and rearranging of information, mnemonic methods personalizes information making it interesting hence easier to remember as opposed to raw unarranged information.
#Mnemonics allows for less time spent on retrieving information from long term memory due to the way they have been arranged and categorized during the learning phase. 









Chunking
This memorization method involves putting the things you want to remember in larger groups as opposed to word by word. This is ideal when you are trying to remember large amounts of information such as phone numbers or area codes, which are rather long and quite hard to remember each time; these can be broken into two's or threes for ease in recalling. 
The first step is to get the list of numbers and break them down to an amount you feel comfortable to handle. Recite them severally out loudly or in written form. Take a one-day break then test yourself; if you can be able to recall all the numbers accurately, then you have mastered the art of chunking.
Whether you choose chunking, mnemonics or rote learning methods to aid you with memorization, do this when your mind is fresh and active as this will increase the comprehension or absorption rate, which increases chances of recalling.










Unleash Your Power (Increasing Brain Power)
Brain power refers to the overall capacity of the brain not just the thinking aspect of it. The brain doesn't just think; it does a lot more functions such as handling: 
#Intelligence
#Creativity
#Talents
#Consciousness  
#Intuition
Although mind power is of infinitive dimensions and the fact that it cannot be measured, it can be rated. Some people have more brain power than others; actually, there can be lack of balance between the aspects the brain handles. For example, it is easy to notice someone with a great mental ability but lacking in the other aspect. 
All that can be improved with practice. We will discuss some actionable techniques and strategies to get you started. As you get started, discipline, motivation and patience should be part of your guiding principles. 









Mind Mapping
This diagram is used to depict how your mind organizes the information it receives. Instead of a linear approach, mind mapping sets to exploit more of your mind capabilities. By exploiting more of its capabilities, it means that it can expand its functionality hence making it more powerful.
When studying using this technique, your mind is able to store information in the long term memory. This is a supplement to the traditional method of learning, as it enhances the way your brain performs its function. The two have to be used hand in hand; mind mapping should complement not replace traditional brain functioning. 









Critical and lateral Thinking
This technique encourages the use of two thinking ways in order to increase your brainpower. Critical thinking is more about the ability to make proper decisions. It usually depends on skill like fairness and clarity. It requires incorporating of facts received intelligence and intuition. 
Lateral thinking on the hand majorly focuses on creative aspect of your brain. Lateral thinking tells of how much you can get out of the box or away from the information you have received to come up with something meaningful. When you use lateral thinking, you approach a situation differently as opposed to how you would have normally.
When you use lateral thinking or critical thinking single handedly, it tends to limit your brain power; that's why when something comes up, you will be quick to use that which you are already used to because your brain power has been limited over time. 
When learning this method, use the two kinds of thinking simultaneously. It might be hard when you are starting out but with disciplined practice, you will be able to crack it. Mastering this technique means that you are able to face an issue with open thinking, which is what, happens when your brain power has been expanded. 









Mental stimulation
This is a method of enhancing brainpower by keeping it active and functioning. The same way physical exercises enhance wellness and body functionality, mental stimulation seeks to promote good health of the brain, which in turn promotes its power.
Through research, it has been established that the more you think, the better the brain functions. When you don't exercise its functionality, you weaken your cognitive abilities and over time, you will notice you've become slower in thinking and even understanding things. Your creativity, intuition, and intelligence also gets slowed down.
You can do mental stimulation by playing mind games more frequently. These can be in the form of playing scrabble, chess or even filling crosswords and Sudoku's. It may seem like a waste of time but it has been established that these games force you to use your cognitive abilities therefore significantly increasing your brainpower.
You can also increase your brain power by spending your leisure time doing creative stuff like writing, drawing and composing as opposed to watching television or sleeping.
Another way can be doing something hard and technical, which will force you to think. You can for example take a programming or a calculus course. By doing something that doesn't come natural without thinking, you stretch your thinking abilities, which in turn boost your brain power.









Important points to note
As you practice and learn the techniques that will aid you with increasing your brain power, you will need to incorporate the following to achieve maximum success in your quest:-
Reduce stress
Stress is known to block your brain efficiency making it to start dragging. Stress reduces the brains ability to focus because all the mental energy has been redirected to handle whatever it is that is bothering you. Chronic stress is known to destroy some of the key brain cells significantly reducing the capacity and the power of the brain. 
Stress and anxiety take a heavy toll on the brain. They are known to: hinder proper thinking, make it difficult to concentrate, make decision making difficult and make it hard to remember things. With all these distractions, it means that stress will definitely make it hard to master the art of boosting brainpower.
Get enough sleep
Sleep helps relax both the body and the brain; a tired brain has less power to completely execute its functions, which includes learning. So get enough sleep and when your mind is relaxed and clearer, train yourself on these techniques.
Meditate
Meditation is a great way to relax both your mind and body. Apart from that, meditation expands the working size of the brain therefore increasing its power. A relaxed mind will be able to do more than just normal. Meditation also improves focus, concentration, creativity, learning and reasoning. Meditation does all these by increasing the thickness of the cerebral cortex therefore encouraging more connections between brain cells, which promote mental sharpness and memory ability.
Exercise
Physical exercise is good for both your body and your brain too. It has a way of making you feel reenergized and refreshed meaning that your brain's capacity is at a peak to execute its functions. Regular exercises promote the release of feel good hormones in the body that minimizes the stress levels therefore clearing your mind for content absorption.
During physical exercise, the heart is greatly aided in the pumping of blood, which is coupled with more breathing. This means more oxygen is sent to the brain, which is very important in nourishing the brain.
Exercises also promote the release of brain chemicals that strengthen and protect neurons from damage, which is very important for cognitive functioning since it promotes brainpower.
 
Eat well
For increased brainpower, you have to ensure that your brain is healthy. You do this through eating well in order to provide all essential nutrients to the body. Just like other cells in the body, brain cells also need nourishing from the nutrients you get from the food you consume. Even as you consume balanced diets, ensure that you add Omega 3 to you regular diet since this is known to activate the brain.










Conclusion
 
First of all, I want to thank you for downloading this book and congratulate you for taking the first step towards your goals!
 
To wrap it up, the best tip I can give you is to make small, realistic changes in your lifestyle, and to not practice all these techniques all at once. Start with some of these and then move on to the next ones. After you have tried them all, keep practicing the ones that worked best for you. 
 
You need to understand that the change will not happen overnight. You need to be patient and consistent and practice as often as you can to see improvements in your life.










Final Words
 
 
Thank you again for showing your commitment in changing your life by taking this first step and purchasing my book.  
 
You now have the necessary knowledge to achieve your learning goals. I really hope I was able to help you understand the best strategies to read faster, and to increase your memory and brain power. 
 
Your next step is now to commit to yourself and take action by testing the strategies in this book. 
 
If you enjoyed this book, please take a minute to share your positive thoughts in a review on the Amazon book page! I really appreciate these reviews as they help me spread the word of my work.
 
PS. You can contact me at my personal email address and expect a quick response, as I reply to every email I receive!
guerrero.marcoa@gmail.com
 
















