



Eric Rodwell'sBidding Topics
Eric Rodwell








Contents

Introduction
1 Support Doubles and Redoubles
2 New Minor Forcing
3 Mixed Raises
4 Cappelletti
5 Responses to a forcing 1NT
6 Inverted minors
7 Roman Keycard Blackwood
8 Serious 3NT
9 Last Train








Introduction
About 6 years ago Jan Van Cleeff approached me with an idea for a website: I would write, or in a few cases edit, a series of articles on bridge and they would be available for purchase on Jan's website.
The website was originally named bridgetopcis.com and later became newinbridge.com. I have received lots of positive feedback from those that have acquired the articles but there is a much wider audience we hope to reach by putting the articles out in book form.
The articles have been designed for all levels of player: by starting with the basics on the topic and gradually filling in details up to expert level, I hope to frame the issues in a way all can understand and also raise issues for a partnership to discuss. If your level is more basic you might wish to digest a bit at a time, coming back for more when you feel ready.
I have selected 9 excellent topics for this first book that I know will have wide appeal, including two about conventions I invented: Support Doubles, and Serious 3NT. Topics cover some very important areas of constructive bidding, competitive bidding, and slam bidding.
My collaboration with newinbridge.com resulted in the development of a new app, uBid. This app allows you to practice bidding with your partner on a wide range of topics including the conventions I describe in this book. You are given the chance to practice your bidding on a new topic before actually using it at the table. 
Practice these Bidding Topics with your partner using uBid!

Click Here







1Support Doublesand Redoubles
Introduction
I invented Support Doubles and Redoubles in 1974. The original idea was that opener could double an overcall to show three-card support for responder's major. For clarity, opponents' bids are shown in parenthesis:

Double: three-card heart support
2♥: four-card heart support
Pass or other bids: fewer than three hearts
A Support Redouble applies when RHO (Right Hand Opponent), and likewise LHO = (Left Hand Opponent) makes a take-out double of the response of one of a major:

Redouble: three-card spade support
I invented this convention originally to avoid playing in a 3-3 major suit fit. At the time we played Precision, and in response to the 1♦ opening, I thought it clever to bid 1♥ or 1♠ on a three-card suit. My partner, Mr. Bloom, thought it was right to raise with three-card support. So, the resulting 3-3 fit I named a 'Bloom Obstinance Fit'. One day the bidding went:

At this point my partner, after long thought, said "Two Hots" (he's from Boston). At this point I thought "at least in competition, he can double to show three-card support". Thus the Support Double was born, though at the time I called it the 'Bloom Obstinance Double'. It has later been renamed the Support Double.
Though I no longer respond three-card majors, the Support Double is as useful as ever. Suppose I have this hand:

Partner opens 1♦, RHO passes, I bid 1♥ and LHO bids 2♣. How high should I compete?
Let's first suppose that partner has passed, denying three or more hearts. In this case I know we have no eight-card fit anywhere (partner would rebid 2♦ with six diamonds). Thus I should pass and try for a plus on defense. Partner's hand is:

We have an excellent chance to go plus against 2♣; 2♥ or other partials our way rate to go down. Put the ♣Q in the heart suit, so that partner has:

Now it is right to compete to 2♥, and partner will double 2♣, the Support Double, to show me three-card heart support. I remove to 2♥. Both 2♣ and 2♥ figure to make so this is a good thing.
Now suppose partner has a fourth trump:

Partner will raise to 2♥ and you will pass, but if they compete to 3♣, you will try 3♥, confident that there is a nine-card fit. There is no assurance that this will always work but it is playing the percentages.
When do Support Doubles and Redoubles apply?
The short answer: when you and partner agree that they do! Regardless of what I say here, you need to discuss it with your partner. My suggestion is as follows:
• Support Doubles apply through a 2♠ bid on opener's right.
• Support Doubles apply only when responder has bid 1♥ or 1♠.
• It doesn't matter what opener's LHO did.
• Support Redoubles have only one case: opener's RHO doubles the response of one of a major for take-out.

• Double: Support. Responder has bid one of a major and there was an overcall on opener's right that was at 2♠ or below.

• Double: not Support. This double means whatever you have agreed: penalty, take-out, good hand, whatever.

• Double: Support. Responder has bid one of a major and RHO overcalled at the one- or two-level. It doesn't matter that LHO has overcalled 1♥.
In the last case you might wonder: the 1♠ bid shows at least five spades (since most play that a negative double would show exactly four spades), so why would you need a Support Double?
It is nice to know when there is a nine-card fit vs an eight-card fit. Suppose you have this hand:

No one vulnerable:

It might work very well to bid 4♠ here but it might be a disaster also. Pard might have three small cards in spades with a 4-1 split. Since partner has another chance to bid, it is best to pass (in tempo). He knows you have five spades. Say opener has:

He can bid 4♠ himself, having strong trumps and a good side suit. If opener has:

of course he will pass and you have a good chance for a plus instead of a possible big minus.
If instead of double, opener had bid 2♠ promising four trumps, 4♠ is much more likely to work well. Or if it is the wrong decision, at least it will be harder for them to double, and they might go wrong again by bidding 5♥. Give opener:

4♥ will very likely make and 4♠ is down two if they can cash all their tricks. It isn't easy for them to double. Opener, having shown his hand already, can't bid 4♠ now since he doesn't know you have a stiff heart among other things.
Bottom line: Support Doubles are useful even if it is known that you have five or more spades.
Q&A I
Is the final double in the auctions below a Support Double?

Answers
1. Opener's double in the first auction is support. Responder bid one of a major and there was a two-level overcall. LHO's take-out double doesn't affect anything.
2. This is not a Support Double, since the RHO's bid is at the three-level. What it does mean is up to you, I suggest it says "I have a good hand but no convenient bid".
3. This is not a Support Double because the response was not one of a major, it was two of a major. I once scored +1070 in 2♠ doubled in the Cavendish Pairs (IMP scoring!) when my opponents had this exact misunderstanding.
4. This last double is not a Support Double because we aren't the opening side. This double is whatever you agree, but I suggest responsive (take-out).
Is a Support Double or Redouble mandatory?
This is a matter for partnership agreement. You might wish to make certain common-sense exceptions, such as when you have a hand that looks better for defense than offense:

You are content to defend 2♣, and this will be a good idea if pard has only 4 Spades. Of course if pard has 5 Spades not making a Support Double could complicate things but with weak spades and very good clubs an exception seems warranted, so pass.
The second exception comes when RHO bids 1NT. Now, it is more dangerous to make a Support Double with a minimum balanced hand. Example:

Pass. It is too dangerous when RHO bids 1NT to make a Support Double. However, in the case that the 1NT overcall is artificial - showing a two-suiter for instance - I suggest opener can launch a Support Double.
The final case, if you have agreed to play Support Doubles through 2♠, is when they bid 2♠,(over partner's 1♥). Now, a double would force partner to the three-level, so you should have a GOOD weak notrump, or a hand with shape (or any good hand).

1. Hand 1 is too weak to make a Support Double that would force partner to the three-level; therefore pass.
2. Hand 2 is worth a Support Double in my opinion. Hopefully if partner can't bid 3♥ or 4♥ he can put you back in 3♦.
3. Hand 3 is a 'shape' hand with medium strength. You start with a Support Double and see what happens.
How does responder reply to a Support Double or Redouble?
I believe it is best to think of the Support Double as a take-out double. You know some additional things, such as what suit opener opened and that he has three-card support. If the Support Double or Redouble comes at a low level:

• 1NT, 2♣, 2♦, or 2♥: all non-forcing, up to 10 HCP (High Card Points)
• 2NT, 3♦, or 3♥: all invitational to game
• 2♠: game forcing
• jumps in new suits are probably best played as game forcing, but invitational is okay if you prefer
One thing that might surprise you: responder should bid 1NT on balanced hands with no fit, even with no spade stopper. Opener might have good spades for the double, and since you are in 1NT it is no big deal if the opponents can run spades anyway.
Q&A II

Answers
1. Hand 1 should bid 1NT, in spite of having no spade stopper. Bidding 2♣, a new suit, should show a five-card second suit (with only four hearts, else you would sign off in the known 5-3 heart fit).
2. Hand 2 should bid 2♥. This strongly implies at least five hearts since so many other choices are available at this level. You have 10 HCP but poor shape and soft values so you aren't quite worth an invitational 3♥.
3. Hand 3 should bid 3♦, invitational, with 11 HCP and a good diamond fit. Of course you deny a fifth heart (you would invite with 3♥ instead).
4. Hand 4 should bid 2♠, a cuebid, to force to game. Of course you are hoping to hear 2NT now, opener's top priority in his rebid if he has a stopper in spades.
The Support Double at the two-level
If the Support Double comes at the two-level, responder has fewer choices:

• 2♦: at least three diamonds, only four hearts, non-forcing
• 2♥: much more likely to be only four hearts than after a 1♠ overcall; non-forcing
• 2♠: natural, 4-4 in the majors; should be forcing one round, at least invitational
• 2NT, 3♦, 3♥: invitational to game
• 3♣: game forcing cuebid
Two examples:

Hand 1 should bid 2♥. Bidding 2♠ would show 4-4, but would be forcing one round and at least invitational. Opener will be aware you might have only four hearts and not a good hand necessarily either.
Hand 2 should bid 2♦. A 1♦ opening has at least four cards unless 4-4-3-2 distribution. When opener shows three hearts, he must have at least four diamonds and might have more. Since your hearts are weak, why not try for a better fit in diamonds?
There is another possibility after a two-level overcall: passing and converting to penalty. You might be tempted to do this with balanced hands that have only four of the major because you don't like the alternatives, but I recommend doing so only when you have some real defense against their contract. The deal below is real, but from many years ago:

Of course the 2♦ overcall was pretty crazy, but it was made by a well known player who is still in action today. My partner led the ♥A and we proceeded to get three heart ruffs, three spades, the ♥A and ♣A and king. Then with four cards left we led a club and declarer had to ruff it and give up the ♦Q, +1400!
Of course you don't need this much to pass a Support Double. Five trumps will do or four trumps and some defense. You might consider passing with three trumps and balanced with 11+ HCP but that is dangerous if LHO is not a frivolous overcaller.
There is one more point of theory about responder's rebid that even experts disagree on:

Is this invitational, on the theory that we just have to play 2♠ on the 4-3 fit, so that responder has a way to show game interest with a diamond fit? Or is it showing say 4-5 in spades and diamonds, trying to play the partial in the much better fit?
There is no clear best answer here. I have a slight preference for the 'invitational' agreement, but decide with your partner which you prefer.
What actions can opener take having started with a Support Double or Redouble?
I think you might find the 'take-out double' analogy helpful once again. If opener has a normal hand, 12-14 balanced, he will pass any non-forcing bid. And he will consider whether to accept an invitational bid.
If opener has a shape hand, his range is wide. With a minimum he will pass non-forcing bids, but have more interest in invitational bids (if 3NT isn't the main target). With shape and extra values, opener must consider bidding again even over a non-forcing response. The best idea normally is to bid naturally and leave the rest to responder:


With hand 1 pass 2♠. You have a little extra considering the shape but not enough to bid again.
With hand 2 bid 3♣. This shows extra strength and is natural, so expect 3-1-5-4 and about a good 14-17 HCP.
With hand 3 bid 3♦. This shows six diamonds and extras. HCP is less clear with a long suit but you should have some interest in hearing partner bid 3NT if he can.
Hand 4 is too strong for 3♦ so should cuebid 3♥, showing a game forcing hand.
Another type opener can have is 18-19 balanced. With this hand, your next bid over something non-forcing is to bid 2NT:

2NT. This shows 18-19 balanced with a club stopper. Responder should now place the contract.
Some more advanced final thoughts
There are certainly plenty of additional things a serious partnership might consider about Support Doubles and Redoubles. I'll list some of these in no particular order.
1. Opener might make a Support Double with 18-19 balanced and only two-card support, if he has no stopper in their suit either:

What to do? 3♣ seems inadequate and misdirected, as does pass. 3♦ is a substantial distortion but might be your preference anyway. 2NT is the value bid but is out with your heart holding.
I think you should double, then over 2♠ bid 3♥. It isn't wonderful but it seems like the least of evils. If partner has five spades the hand might play best in 4♠ anyway.
2. Responder's double jump (or jump to four of a NEW minor, or jump cuebid) is an 'autosplinter', showing that the major is agreed, and shortness there, with slam potential:

4♦: autosplinter, diamond shortness and interest in a Heart slam.
4♣: invitational and natural (opener bid clubs)
3. If responder's RHO takes a bid, responder no longer has to act. Responder can compete in either previously bid suit. New suits should be forcing and jumps and 2NT still invitational.

Pass: nothing special
2NT: invitational
3♣: new suit, forcing
3♦: competing, but might have decent hand
3♥: same
I suggest that double then 3♥ shows a full-value invitation in a situation like this.
There is a lot of meat on the Support Double and Redouble 'bones', but the convention is still very worthwhile even for less experienced partnerships.
Practice your bidding on a new topic before using it at the table.
Practice these Bidding Topics with your partner using uBid!

Click Here







2New Minor Forcing
Introduction
New minor forcing ('NMF') is a convention used on the second round of bidding by responder after opener has rebid 1NT. Later in this chapter we will deal with two-way NMF also known as Two-Way Checkback Stayman, as well.
In the original version, it was a bid of 2♣ (2♦ if that is the 'new minor', i.e. the opening was 1♣) when the response was in a major:

NMF is primarily used to discover if opener has 3-card support for the major, to locate a 5-3 fit. Using NMF promises at least game invitational values. On many hands, responder will next bid 4 of the major if opener shows support, or 3NT if he does not.

Obviously, the 2♠ bid by opener shows 3-card spade support. What does opener bid if he does not have 3-card support? Typically, opener bids 2♥ (responder having bid 1♠) if he has 4 hearts, otherwise he picks the cheapest available bid - 2♦ if responder bid 2♣, 2NT if responder bid 2♦.

In the second example, opener rebids 2♦, the cheapest bid that is not in a major, to artificially deny either a 3-card fit or 4 of the other major.
Which does opener show first—3-card spade support, or 4 hearts?
If opener has both 3 spades and 4 hearts, there is no real consensus on which he shows first. Some are very determined that opener must show the 4-card heart suit first, on the theory that a 4-4 heart fit will play better than a 5-3 spade fit. I disagree with this for several reasons:
1. It often plays better in a 5-3 or 6-3 fit than a 4-4 fit.
2. If responder is not interested in a 4-4 heart fit, then opener's 2♠ bid tells him what he needs to know.
3. If responder is determined to find a 4-4 heart fit, he can continue over opener's 2♠ bid with a natural 3♥.

Note that by not bidding 2♥, there is a better chance of getting a heart lead instead of a very awkward diamond lead.
Can a 1NT rebid over a 1♥ response include a 4-card spade suit?
This is a style question. In the USA it is increasingly popular to rebid 1NT with 4 spades if the hand is balanced and in range. This has the advantage of making a 1♠ rebid show at least a somewhat unbalanced hand:

1♠: either at least 4-5, or possibly 4-1-4-4 if a 1♣ opening is allowed with this shape. Might have xx in diamonds, with 4-3-2-4, if that is allowed.
In any event, the drawback is that bypassing a 1♠ rebid makes finding a spade fit and proper level more difficult. If responder doesn't have at least invitational values, then the 4-4 spade fit will get lost. I will discuss this with other continuations later.
Responder's continuations after using NMF
Suppose we have one of these auctions:

Are the above continuations non-forcing, invitational, or forcing? Some will be matters of agreement and some determined by the logic of what hand types use NMF. Let's look at other bids responder might make over a 1NT rebid:

2♣: NMF
2♦: to play
2♥: 5-4+ majors, weak; opener to pass or bid 2♠ 2♠: 5+ spades, weak; opener must pass 2NT: invitational; I suggest that it denies interest in 3-card spade support (otherwise, use NMF)
3♣: this is for partnership agreement; some use it as a sign-off (to make up for the lost natural 2♣), others use it is natural and Game Forcing (GF)
3♦: is this invitational, or forcing? What does it say about having 4 versus 5 spades?
3♥: this should be GF; I think it should show 5-5 at least; with 5-4 use NMF
3♠: most play this as invitational with 6+ spades
This could get confusing fast. So, I'll make my suggestions which of course you need to modify if your 'core sequences' differ from my suggestions. In reality, I hope you will instead choose to play 'two-way NMF' which I will discuss later. Especially when you see how involved these issues can become!

any bid at the 2-level: as suggested above
3♣: to play
3♦: GF, fit. This way, bidding NMF then 3♦ is invitational. Interested in playing in 5 or 6 diamonds, but does not clarify 4 versus 5 spades
3♥ or 3♠: as suggested above
This means that bidding NMF shows one of these hand types:
1. Invitational or better with exactly 5 in the major.
2. Game forcing with 6+ cards in the major.
3. Game forcing with the other minor. In this case you would have 5+ in the major (otherwise respond the other minor, 1♦ or 2♣, first).
4. Invitational exactly with a fit for the minor. You can have 4 or 5 in the major, but will find out if opener has a fit so this won't be a problem.
Thus, these are the rules for responder's continuations:
a) If responder continues with 2 of his major, he shows a 5-card suit with exactly invitational values. Opener is encouraged to pass unless he has a maximum.
b) If responder continues with 2NT, that is invitational but shows a 5-card major. If opener showed 3-card support, opener can choose whether to play in the major or in notrump, at game or partscore.
c) If responder continues with 3 of opener's minor, that is invitational. If opener showed 3-card support, then responder has only 4 of his major.
d) If responder continues with 2 of the other major, that shows an invitational hand with 5-4 in the majors.
Quiz 1
We'll look at more rules in a moment, but stop for a quiz for now. How would you bid the pair(s) of hands below?

ANSWERS

Responder lacks much game interest when opener denies 3-card spade support. 2♠ is an attempt to stop.

Opener passes 3♦, invitational, with a minimum. He knows there is no 5-3 spade fit or responder would have bid 3♠ or 4♠ instead of 3♦.
Other continuations by responder
If opener denies a 3-card fit

3♣: GF, at least 5-4 (5 spades)
3♥: ditto, but 5-4 or 6-4 in the majors
3♠: GF, 6+ spades
The latter bid, 3♠, could be used to play 3NT if opener wants to bid it (if a 1NT rebid is allowed with a stiff spade, this avoids 4♠ on a 6-1 fit if responder's hand is better suited to notrump). The 3♠ bid can also be the first move on a slam try hand with 6+ spades.
If opener shows a 3-card fit:

3♠: invitational
3♣: ARTIFICIAL, sets spades as trump, GF
3♥: natural, 5-4 or 6-4; might have slam interest, GF
3NT: 'choice of games'; with 5332 you want to let opener decide which game to play

3NT shows a balanced hand with 5 spades (else just bid 3NT over 1NT). Opener is to choose the game and 3NT has a better chance than 4♠. With ♠ Q J 3 ♥ 10 2 ♦ A K J 3 ♣ Q 8 7 6, opener would go back to 4♠.
Other ugly issues with 1-way NMF
If NMF is 2♦ (opening was 1♣), then the 2NT rebid by opener, denying either major, is very awkward: responder doesn't know whether or not to bid game if he has an invitational hand. You could say that opener must bid 3NT with a maximum but that crowds the bidding too much if responder wants to explore further.
The easy solution? Play that 2♣ is always 'NMF' over 1NT, even when the opening was 1♣. (This method - 2♣ being the only artificial bid—is also known as Checkback Stayman.)
Responder can bid 3♣ over 1NT if he wants to sign off in a club partial.
The other 'ugly issue' is if opener has rebid 1NT over a 1♥ response when holding 4 spades. Now a 2♠ rebid denies responder a chance to rebid 2♥. I suggest if you do want to rebid 1NT with 4 spades, play two-way NMF which I am about to discuss.
Two-way NMF (or two-way Checkback Stayman)
There are several variations, but the basic idea is this:

2♣: invitational to game, artificial
2♦: GF, artificial
You could play that 2♣ is asking, showing exactly an invitational hand:

2♦: artificial, no fit or 4 hearts
2♠: 3-card support
2♥: no 3-card support, natural
If you want to 'soup' it up a little, opener's 2NT could artificially show extras with 3-card support. This lets us stop in two of the major when opener has a bad hand, but this is not easy to remember so be careful.
Any continuation by responder is natural and shows exactly an invitational hand.

2♦: artificial, no 3 spades or 4 hearts
Then responder bids 2♥, invitational (all continuations are invitational).
Perhaps you would bid opener's hand differently, but the above auction appeals to me and many others. The lack of an 8-card fit suggests stopping low and 2♥ is as good a contract as any.
If you play this way, then I suggest for the 3-level:

3♣ or 3♦: to play. You can't play either minor at the 2-level.
2♣ forces 2♦ as part of two-way NMF
More popular in the USA is '2♣ forces 2♦':

2♦: obligatory
This has the advantage of being able to stop in 2♦. If responder has an invitational hand, he continues naturally. This means jumping to 3♦ over 1NT should mean something else (we'll look at that after considering 2♦ game forcing over 1NT).
The only real problem with this is in an auction like this:

Responder is not showing much interest in 3NT (bid 2NT the second time if so), but is opener nearly obliged to raise with 3-card support? If responder is distributional he will want to be raised; if responder has a light game try he might want to stop in 2♠. I suggest that opener must raise with 3-card support unless his hand is quite poor for spades.
2♦ artificial game force over 1NT
Responder's 2♦ over 1NT is artificial and game forcing. Before going further, I should note that:

This sequence is 'choice of games', i.e. a balanced hand with 5 spades. Opener is to choose the game. This way, if responder bids 2♦, he wants any useful information that opener can give him.

2♠: must bid on any hand with 3-card support
2♥: must bid with 4 hearts (lacking 3 spades of course)
2NT: most hands that lack 3 spades or 4 hearts
3♣: 5 clubs, but to be helpful I suggest it show a quality suit
Quiz 2
What rebid would you make as opener with the hands below on the auction:

Answers
1. Bid 2♠, mandatory on any hand with 3-card support.
2. Bid 2♥, mandatory with 4 hearts and no 3 spades.
3. Bid 2NT, denying a biddable major. Don't rebid a weak 5-card club suit.
4. Bid 3♣, showing a good 5-card suit.
Responder continues after his initial artificial 2♦ GF response
All continuations are natural.

3♠: sets trump, slam try. Use whatever methods you normally use for 'agreed major' auctions. You can refer to the 'Serious 3NT' or 'Last Train' articles for some ideas.
Other bids would, in principle, either deny or at least suggest that responder has only 4 spades:

2NT: wants more distributional information; opener bids naturally
3♣: natural; however, responder should have 5 spades also (with 4-4 and a big hand, continue with 2NT to see if opener can bid 3♣)
3♦: supporting diamonds; it is possible that responder has 5 spades but thinks a slam might be easier in diamonds
3♥: natural, so definitely at least 5-4; some would consider that this bid might just be 'choice of games' but opener can consider the slam-try possibility as well
Let's look at a couple of full-deal examples when opener shows 3-card support:

Responder's 2NT is 'waiting', seeking further natural bids. 3♣ shows a 4-card suit, so opener should be 3-2-4-4. Responder's hand has the 'right' shape - 3 hearts and 2 diamonds - so he is happy to try for a club slam. The rest of the auction would depend on your keycard agreements (4♦ is a cuebid here).

Responder's 3♥ sets trump and opener bids game, having a 4333 minimum. 6♣ shows the ♣K, and responder infers that opener has at least 4 clubs (this inference would be valid only if opener has denied a 4-card spade suit with his 1NT rebid).
Three-level bids over 1NT when playing two-way NMF
Three-level bids over 1NT can take on different meanings when playing two-way NMF. If you play 2♣ over 1NT is 'asking', then you can play 2♣ followed by 3 of opener's minor is invitational, and denying 5 in your major if opener shows 3-card support.
If you play 2♣ forces 2♦, then opener's support is unknown. If the opening was 1♦, then a jump to 3♦ over 1NT can be invitational denying a 5-card major:

3♦: invitational, no 5 spades

3♦: invitational, has 5 spades
If the opening was 1♣, there is a problem: 3♣ over 1NT is to play, and 2♣ followed by 3♣ will be invitational but ambiguous regarding length in the major. This won't create a problem very often but it is a small downside to using 2♣ as forcing 2♦ instead of asking.
Some play other meanings for a jump rebid of responder's major, such as game forcing with a strong suit. I don't see the necessity for changing the agreement about this bid just because you play two-way NMF but it isn't a big deal either way.

Two-way NMF works well after a 1♥ opening as well.

Opener takes over once he hears the 4♣ cuebid, having magic cards: the ♦A and the ♠K in addition to goodish trump.

Nice to stop in 2♥ on these cards.
1♣ - 1♦ using two-way NMF
Two-way NMF can also be used after 1♦ response, but that means a 2♦ rebid, which sounds like a sign-off, is used as an artificial game force. Clearly you should not play this if either partner might forget it. Once you get used to two-way NMF it should send off the alarm bell to prevent a forget.

2♣: forces 2♦
2♦: artificial, GF
3♣: to play
Continuations are familiar. If opener can bid 1NT with 4-card major(s), then his 2 of a major over 2♦ is natural. If not, then 2 of a major can mean something else (perhaps a stopper, or artificial diamond raise).
When a 1NT rebid might contain a 4-card spade suit
If you play that opener rebids 1NT over a 1♥ response with 4 spades only when 4-3-3-3, then:

2♠: 4-3-3-3 exactly
Bidding 2♥ to show 3-card support would thus promise 4+ clubs. If a 1NT rebid is permitted with 4432 hands that have 4 spades, you might want something more involved:

2♠: 4 spades + 3 hearts. Responder could bid 2NT to ask for more information: rebidding 3♣ shows 4-3-2-4, bidding 3♦ could show 4-3-3-3. This lets responder pick the trump suit

3♦: 4 spades, no 3 hearts (so 4-2-3-4)
There is one more 'fly in the ointment' - if opener can conceal a 4-card spade suit with his rebid, responder needs to be able to distinguish a game try with 4-4 in the majors from one with 4-5 in the majors. There is no right or wrong way, only what both partners can remember. I will suggest this:

2♠: invitational, 4-4 in the majors

2♠: invitational, 4-5 in the majors
With any game forcing hand that has interest, bid 2♦.
This isn't easy so be careful adopting these last suggestions!
Quiz 3
How might the following pairs of hands be bid, using my suggested methods with two-way NMF? Assume that a 1NT rebid might conceal a 4-card spade suit with 4333 or 4432.

Answers

2♠ shows 4-4 in the majors and invitational. 2♠ is a bit better spot than 2NT.

2♠ shows 4 spades and 3 hearts. 2NT asks, and 3♣ shows 4-3-2-4. 3♥ sets hearts and 3♠ and 4♣ are cuebids. With a nice maximum West takes over with Roman Keycard Blackwood, and East knows that West must have a black suit queen in addition to the 3 missing keycards to bid RKC. A diamond ruff provides the 13th trick.
Conclusion
Two-way NMF is a useful convention, but that are plenty of I's to dot and T's to cross. Make sure partner is on the same page whatever you agree to do. Enjoy!
Practice your bidding on a new topic before using it at the table.
Practice these Bidding Topics with your partner using uBid!

Click Here







3Mixed Raises
Introduction - Mixed raises
A Mixed raise is a bid that shows at least 4-card support for partner. It is called 'Mixed' because it shows more than a Preemptive raise and less than a Limit raise. As far as I know this convention was devised by Marty Bergen, and has also been called a 'Constructive raise'. We'll use the term Mixed raise.
What sort of hand is worthy of a Mixed raise? This depends on what you think a Preemptive or Limit raise looks like; a Mixed raise would then fit in between these bids.
It is possible to make a Mixed raise of a major suit, or a minor suit. Let's first look at Mixed raises of a major opening. I said that at least 4 trumps are promised. This is an application of the 'Law of Total Tricks', first espoused by Emile Borel and popularized by Bergen, and Larry Cohen who wrote a best-seller entitled 'The Law of Total Tricks'.
This is not an article about the LTT (short for 'Law of Total Tricks') but briefly it means that with a 9-card fit, you are safe most of the time bidding to the 9-trick level. Of course you need some combined high card assets as well, and partner provides some of them with his opening bid.
Let's take a look at Bergen raises, as originally devised (RHO = Right Hand Opponent, and likewise LHO = Left Hand Opponent):

I think a Mixed raise shows 7 to 9 support points with at least 4 trump. With 4-card support, this means adding 1 point for a doubleton, 3 for a singleton, and 5 for a void to your HCP (High Card Points). Of course you should adjust where appropriate, for example if you have ♣Jx, you should not add a point for the Jack and a second point for the doubleton since they are likely to be duplicated values.
This means that with up to 6 (or a bad 7) support points, your hand is a Preemptive raise (vulnerable a Preemptive raise has a higher minimum), and 10-11 (bad 12) support points is a Limit raise.
How would you value that hands below when partner opens 1♠ and RHO passes? What would you then bid playing Bergen raises?

With hand 1, you have 6 HCP and a doubleton heart, but Qx or Jx holdings should not count both the HCP and the doubleton. Your hand is not worth a Mixed raise. You would then have to decide if you wanted to vault to the 3-level with a preemptive 3♠, or settle for a 2-level raise of some sort (either raising to 2♠, or bidding 1NT and hoping to be able to settle in 2♠ later).
Hand 2 has 6 HCP and two doubletons that appear to be working, for 8 support points. This is a classic Mixed raise, shown in the original system with a bid of 3♣.
Hand 3 has 8 HCP plus 3 points for the singleton heart, which is a Limit raise, showing by jumping to 3♦.
Why use artificial bids to show the stronger raises, reserving the natural 3-level raise as preemptive? The theory is that the opponents have less room to bid over a 3♠ raise than over a 3♣ or 3♦ artificial raise, so it is more important to bid as much as possible with the weaker raise.
According to this theory 'the more you bid, the less you have', it would seem that 3♣ should be the Limit raise and 3♦ the Mixed raise. In fact, some do play it this way, perhaps mainly for memory purposes. I don't think it is a big deal, play whatever steps are most comfortable for you.
Partner makes a Mixed raise
One advantage of Bergen-type raises is knowing that the raise contains at least 4 trump. Distributional hands with a weak 5-card major are significantly improved knowing they are facing a 4+ card fit. A 2-level raise might be on only 3 trump.
If opener has some extra values and a side suit singleton, he normally should plunge into game. It will depend on whether or not he finds values that fit well in the dummy, but there isn't room to find out. This might be one disadvantage of Mixed raises, in that opener can be more scientific if the raise is to 2♠.
Opener has room over 3♣ to bid 3♦, which should be a game try. There isn't room to make a game try in all unbid suits, so the 3♦ bid is artificial. Since responder has shown a narrow range, he can then judge if he is at the top or bottom of that range.
The bidding starts:

What would you bid with the hands below?

ANSWERS
With hand 1, sign off in 3♠. You have a little bit extra but not nearly enough for game. If partner gave you a Limit raise, you wouldn't be confident putting it in game so you clearly should reject game opposite the weaker Mixed raise.
Hand 2 should just bid 4♠. This is one of those shapely extras hands where knowing there is a fourth trump opposite makes the hand more likely to play well. If partner has a minimum with wasted heart strength 4♠ might not be so good but even then, the defenders don't know what you have and might not lead or defend to best advantage.
Imagine partner with this hand:

Partner has a minimum yet there are excellent plays for game.
Even if partner had the ♥K instead of the ♣K, you would have some chances if they don't attack clubs at trick one, though you would then prefer to be in only 3♠ most of the time.
Hand 3 is substantially better than minimum, but with 5422 shape you don't want to commit to game. Bid 3♦, the game try, and let responder evaluate. If he has softer values or is minimum he will reject. Imagine either of these hands opposite:

Hand 'a' is an easy acceptance, hand 'b', with soft cards, is an easy rejection. The ♥Q is a dubious value and on this hand likely worthless (though you do have faint hopes of a heart lead from the king, or if you set up the ♥Q, that they don't get their club tricks in time).
Making a slam try opposite a Mixed raise
We saw that some nondescript hands have game prospects opposite a Mixed raise, so it follows that good shape hands have slam prospects. You can keep it simple and say that anything past the cheapest step (excluding returning to trump, of course) is a cuebid of the cheapest control that opener has and is a slam try.

3♥: control in hearts, slam interest
We are under game so responder should cooperate where possible. If you play Serious 3NT, or Last Train (see those articles in later chapters) then those tools could apply later in the auction.
In some cases responder's cuebid will fill in opener's hand:

3♥, the 2nd step (not including the sign-off in trump at the 3-level), is a cuebid of opener's cheapest control. Responder isn't thrilled about his hand but he must cooperate so he bids 4♦, showing a diamond control but no club control. With 5 spades lacking the jack, opener is wise to check on the trump queen.
5♣ shows 0 or 3 (of course 0) keycards, and 6♦ shows the trump queen + the ♦K, while denying the ♥K (responder has already denied a club control when he bid 4♦).
The slam is a dubious contract opposite the actual hand, but give responder the ♣Q and it is a good contract. As it is, they might lead clubs or, not knowing the position, jump with the ♣A when you lead the jack from dummy (you might have stiff king). Or, with good splits, pitch clubs from dummy.
If responder's ♦K was in the heart suit instead, he would bid 4♥ and opener would know to stop in game, as the ♣A and a diamond loser should be there, at a minimum.
Similarly, if opener bypasses a cuebid and responder has no control there either, he should sign off in game:

Opener's 4♣ bid denies a spade control so responder signs off.
Of course even facing a spade control, slam depends on responder having the right values (principally the ♣K).
Some might prefer a more scientific approach, where opener either shows shortness, i.e. hoping to find values outside that short suit, or 'Help Suit' slam tries, where opener is asking for help in a particular suit.
This is something that won't come up much, so I suggest the simple approach. However, I will give you something more involved here if you want to use it. If you want to keep it simple, skip the next section.
Long suit and short suit slam tries
Opener can have a slam try where values in any suit but his short suit are helpful:

Or those where he is mainly 2-suited:

and is thus just looking for values in his long suits (and side aces).
Or, opener occasionally has a hand where prime values (aces and kings) are useful anywhere:

If you 'want it all', you can try this:

3♦: game try, or hand type 'c', where he wants prime values; if responder is accepting, he bids game if he doesn't have prime values for slam, and 'waits' with 3NT with a good prime hand in case opener wants to explore further.

Responder's 3NT shows a max with prime values. The ♥Q is considered such since it is together with the ♥K (and not doubleton). Opener bids the slam, which might be on a finesse if the hands don't fit so well.
This leaves the bids past step 1 to show types 'a' and 'b'.

3♠: "I have a 2-suiter slam try"
Over this, responder normally makes the cheapest bid, in this case 3NT, and opener shows his second suit. The method used to show the second suit is called the 'code' - either opener bids as naturally as possible, or he bids by steps - the 1st step shows side clubs, the 2nd side diamonds, the 3rd step shows the other major.
Use whatever code you want; I assume 'steps'.

(1) step 2 (not 3 of our major) = "I have a 2-suiter slam try"
(2) cheapest bid asks for the second suit
(3) using step coding, 2nd step = side diamond suit
Responder has the magic hand, with Kx of the side suit and the king of trump so he takes over.
If opener has the short-suit slam try, he bids past step 2. I recommend putting 3NT in this category, since 3NT will rarely be the best spot, but that is something for you to decide.

3♦: game try, or type 'c' (needs prime values)
3♥: sign-off
3♠: has a 2-suiter
3NT: short suit slam try in clubs (using step code)
4♣: short suit slam try in diamonds
4♦: short suit slam try in spades


*5th available step = short suit slam try short in the other major
Responder has a great hand opposite heart shortness, including being short(er) in the minors in case anything needs to be ruffed, so he takes over with Roman Keycard Blackwood.
They interfere over a Mixed raise
The first question: are we forced to compete to 3 of our major?
The Mixed raise did in principle force you to 3 of the major but maybe now you don't want to if they overcall in a suit you both have length in.
Assuming that opener's pass is non-forcing:

Pass: non-forcing
3♠: to play
3♥: the game try; you can choose to use the tools I just described if you want to get fancy, but everything is a step higher
Double: penalty
If RHO bids the 'maximal' suit, i.e. just below 3 of the major, then you can
1. use opener's double as a 'maximal double', i.e. a game try, or
2. make opener's pass forcing, with at least game interest, and double for penalty.
I don't feel strongly between these methods, but I do suggest that if opener's pass is forcing, it should be forcing over a 3♦ overcall also for simplicity.
If opener bids past 3 of the major, then he is showing interest in higher things. With the opponents in the auction, however, 'higher things' might mean whether to bid on if they take a sacrifice (which might of course be a making contract):

This type of 4♣ bid would normally be played as showing some length in clubs and puts responder in the picture if they bid 4♠. It might also be a slam try so responder can bid 4♦ (whether as a cue or Last Train) if he has a hand that is good for slam.
Note that with the 3♠ overcall being past 3 of our major, 3♥, if opener passes that is definitely non-forcing.
If RHO doubles the Mixed raise, this is fairly simple:

Pass: some mild game interest
Redouble: 3 or 4 weak cards in clubs (think of it as a type of help suit game try)
other bids: ignores the double
Mixed raises when opener's LHO bids

Should this still be a Mixed raise? Simplest is no doubt to say "if responder can jump, it has the same meaning as when they don't bid". Thus, in this case the 3♣ jump would still be a Mixed raise. Of course you could make another agreement.

This 3♣ bid, not being a jump, is just a normal forcing 3♣ bid, not a Mixed raise.
Mixed raises of major suit overcalls
Many play that if partner overcalls 1 of a major, then a jump cuebid of opener's suit is a Mixed raise:

The 3♦ bid is a Mixed raise. Of course you might prefer that it is always 3♣ if that bid is available as a jump.
Mixed raises when you don't have room to jump
Suppose it goes:

You can't jump to 3♣. However, you can jump to 3♥. You also can bid 2NT or 3♦, a cuebid. A couple of approaches could work here:
1. If responder bids 2NT over a 2-level overcall (or for that matter, over a double or 1♠ overcall), that shows at least a Limit raise.
2. A cuebid shows a Mixed raise. That would be a 3♦ bid in the above auction.
Or, you could say that a jump to '1 under' 3 of the major is the Mixed raise, 3♥ here. That allows you to use both 2NT and a 3-level cuebid as Limit+ raises:
• one could promise 4+ trump, the other exactly 3, OR
• one could be a game forcing raise, the other a Limit raise.
Of course if they make the 'maximal' overcall, 2♥, then you can't do this either. I suggest that 2NT show at least a Limit raise and 3♥ shows a Mixed raise.
Overall, you have some issues to discuss with partner. If you both aren't on the same page it will cause problems so decide together what approach you want to take.
Mixed raises of minor suit openings
A lot of players like Inverted minors, where a 2-level raise shows at least a Limit raise and is forcing one round, while a jump raise to 3 of the minor is 'preemptive'.

2♦: at least a Limit raise, forcing
3♦: preemptive, less than a Limit raise
However, this definition for 3♦ covers a lot of ground. Responder might have either of these hands:

Hand 1 is more like a Mixed raise while hand 2 is a Preemptive raise. If opener has 18-19 balanced he needs to know whether to try for 3NT or not. Also, he needs to know whether or not to try for 5♦ (or slam) with a shapely hand.
What is needed, then, is a Mixed raise of a minor opening. This is achieved by assigning a specific jump response for this purpose. Use whatever you are not currently using (or feel you can most conveniently give up). Try using the '1 under' jump (which is most preemptive).

2♠: Mixed raise of clubs

3♣: Mixed raise of diamonds
Since a 1♣ opening is often on 3 cards, responder must have at least 5 trumps for a Mixed raise. A Mixed raise of diamonds, which is normally 4+ cards, might sometimes be made with only 4 trump.
Mixed raises of a minor in competition
A lot of flexibility is lost when they overcall, but if you can still make the '1 under 3 of opener's minor' jump, then that can still be used as a Mixed raise:

3♣: Mixed raise
Notrump bids can't be used as raises, since we are too likely to belong in 3NT when we open a minor and we don't want it played from the wrong side.
If they overcall the maximal suit, then unless you still want to play inverted 2-level raises in competition, which most do not, then you have to assign the jump raise as either 'mixed', 'preemptive', or 'random' (i.e. either mixed or preemptive).

2♠: at least a Limit raise in clubs
3♣: Mixed raise (my preference)
2♣: non-forcing raise
The 2♣ raise is non-forcing in competition, and might be made with only 4-card support, say with this hand:

You might possibly suffer in a 2♣ contract but you must take that risk to show some values and support. You can't bid 1NT and a negative double is misdescriptive.
Opener bids over a Mixed raise
The assumption is, if we can still play 3NT, that opener is thinking about 3NT. If opener goes past 3NT, then he is considering game or slam in the minor.

3♦: sign-off
3♥ or 3♠: values (might or might not be 4 cards), for the moment searching for 3NT
4♣: natural, trying to get to 5♦, or maybe slam; responder should think about both possiblities if he is accepting this try (by bidding past 4♦)

Defending against Mixed raises
Suppose it starts:

*Mixed raise.
A 3♠ cuebid should be Michaels, showing at least 5-5 in hearts and a minor. Overcalls are of course natural. 3NT could be played as natural, or showing the minors (I favor natural).
The question is what should a double show? The easiest, and I think probably best, is to play double shows clubs (double of an artificial bid shows that suit). A close second choice, played by many, is to play:
• Double of a Mixed raise shows a take-out double of their opening bid (spades in our example).
• Double of a Limit raise shows the doubled suit. When responder shows a better hand a take-out double is less likely to be needed.
If you play a double of a Mixed raise shows the doubled suit, then with a take-out double you can balance with a double when opener retreats to his major. I have found, on a frequency basis, that doubling to show clubs comes up more often.
Conclusion
Mixed raises are very useful and I recommend them. The main problem is that some bid has to be assigned to them and can't be used for something else. Also, in various competitive sequences you have to decide what, if anything, is a Mixed raise.
Good luck and enjoy!
Practice your bidding on a new topic before using it at the table.
Practice these Bidding Topics with your partner using uBid!

Click Here







4Cappelletti
Introduction
This convention is normally referring to a defense to opponents' 1NT opening. It is credited to Mike Cappelletti of the Washington DC area but that is in dispute. I'm from Indiana originally and in that area the defense was known as 'Hamilton', created by star player Fred Hamilton. He said to me one time "I invented it in 1969 and he was nowhere to be found" or something to this effect. So, call it what you will, but I will use the more common name, Cappelletti.
The main issue with defenses to 1NT openings is "should a double be for penalty?". If the answer is no, then double can be used to show a variety of hands in addition to those shown by overcalls at the 2-level (and possibly higher). In 'DONT' for example:

Double: shows any one-suiter
2♣, 2♦, or 2♥: shows the bid suit + one higher suit
This gives you maximum flexibility to play at the 2-level in any suit, but it gives up a penalty double of 1NT. This is in my view a fatal flaw of DONT against weak notrump and many would say against any notrump.
Capp (what I will call Cappelletti from now on) works like this:

Double: penalty; of course it could just be a good balanced hand (starting at 15 or 16 HCP)
2♣: shows any long suit; similar to double using DONT
2♦: the majors
2♥ or 2♠: shows the bid major + an unspecified minor
Requirements
There are a number of basic questions we could ask:
1. How much do you need to double 1NT?
• With a flat hand and nothing special (i.e. no good opening lead) I would say 14 HCP or more against true weak notrump openings (12-14 HCP or weaker). Can double with 13 HCP with a hand you like (a good lead, or a 5-card suit).
• Against 'medium' notrump openings, typically 13-15 HCP or 14-16 HCP, the idea is similar but doubling with a flat 14 HCP is not obligatory.
• Against strong notrump, 15-17 HCP, you need a reasonable 15 HCP or more. Of course this is my opinion, do what suits your partnership.
Would you double a 1NT opening on your right with the hands below?

Hand 1 is good enough to double a weak notrump, and I think a medium notrump also, but not quite enough to double a strong notrump.
Hand 2 is I think good enough to double any notrump, though you only have them booked on the ♠K lead.
Hand 3 is a good double. Your dream auction would be LHO (Left Hand Opponent, and likewise RHO = Right Hand Opponent) redoubling, all pass!
Do you need a 6-card suit to overcall 2♣?
In general I would say yes, though a strong 5-card suit (major especially) if nonvulnerable might qualify. Of course just having a 6-card suit isn't enough, especially vulnerable. You have some exposure to a penalty double. You should be able to look at the hand and say "this is a 2-level overcall" at whatever the vulnerability is.
Would you overcall 2♣ over a 1NT opening on your right with the hands below?

Hand 1 is dangerous to bid with, vulnerable especially. I would recommend bidding not vulnerable but with 6322 and a weak suit, you could easily go for a number.
Hand 2 looks like a 2♣ overcall to me. The suit has great spots and you are 6-4. You could be making game if partner has a suitable opening hand with some type of heart fit. Still, you do risk a penalty if partner has nothing of value.
Hand 3 is certainly good enough to bid 2♣, too good in fact. Double 1NT.
Hand 4 is the type of hand I might bid 2♣ with nonvulnerable. The suit is strong and the side tricks, KQJ, are slow tricks that you might not score on defense against 1NT.
What distribution do I need to overcall 2♥ or 2♠?
The standard treatment is that the major is at least 5 cards long and the minor at least 4 cards. Back in my formative days opponents would often make these types of overcalls with a 4-card major, sometimes landing in a 4-2 fit.
This is one problem with Capp: there is no good way to bid a hand with a 4-card major and a longer minor. As it is, if your hand isn't good enough to double you have to pass (or maybe overcall 2♣ to show a one-suiter in your 5-card suit).
Part of the risk of the 2♥ or 2♠ overcall in Capp is that you are getting to the 3-level if you play in the minor. This is a risk worth taking with a decent 5-5 hand; if you are only 5-4, and vulnerable, you should have an opening hand. Of course suit quality is important also.
What would you do with these hands over RHO's 1NT? Does their range or the vulnerability matter?


Hand 1 wants badly to bid something but nothing fits. If you don't mind some 4-2 fits, or 4-3's at higher levels when partner raises (perhaps in competition), then 2♠ is OK. Similarly, a 2♣ overcall could land you in a very poor diamond contract. The hand might double a very weak notrump otherwise it seems best to pass. If LHO transfers to hearts you can back in with a take-out double.
Hand 2, with 5-5, is an easy 2♠ overcall. This is not risk free of course but pass certainly isn't either.
Hand 3, with only 5-4, is a clear 2♥ bid nonvulnerable. The spots are reasonable so it might be worth the risk vulnerable as well; it is close.
Hand 4 is pretty weak, but 5-5 is great and the suits, even though not strong in HCP, have excellent fillers. I would bid 2♠ anytime.
What do I need to bid 2♦ for the majors?
People seem to be pretty loose making this bid, and for good reason: majors are the highest ranking suits and partner can choose either suit at the 2-level. As usual, 5-5 is very good, 5-4 is OK if you have some values, nonvulnerable especially. At least with the majors you can have 5-4 or 4-5, you don't need 5 in any particular suit.
Responding to a Capp double of 1NT
Many people define the double as 'penalty', which means you don't have to remove the double. I think it is more practical to define the double as 'cards', i.e. showing a good hand and that partner should pull with a weak hand (I would say with less than 6 HCP).
If responder has a 5+ card suit, it is easy enough to remove the double to his long suit. With no 5+ card suit, other than possibly clubs, responder can pull to 2♣. This 2♣ response is semi-artificial and doubler can either pass or bid another suit at the 2-level.

Hand 1 passes, eagerly. If they stay in 1NT doubled the penalty should be substantial.
Hand 2 pulls to 2♠, showing 0-5 HCP and at least 5 spades.
Hand 3 pulls to 2♣, showing 0-5 HCP and no 5-card suit (except perhaps clubs). Doubler might have a 5-card suit of his own to bid (or with clubs he can pass); otherwise he scrambles as best he can.
If you wish, if they double 2♣, you can redouble ('SOS') to ask partner to pick another suit.
You might wonder if it might not be better to just leave in the double with hand 3, perhaps finding that 1NT doubled making between 7 and 9 tricks is better than getting doubled in a 4-3 fit at the 2-level. My experience is that it is better to pull to 2♣, there is usually a playable fit somewhere and I don't want to concede a minus unnecessarily.
By extension, when you do leave in partner's double of 1NT you show at least 6 HCP so you should be compelled to act if they run to 2 of a suit: you should either be doubling for penalty or competing for the partial somewhere.
RHO bids over partner's Capp double
Many times your RHO will either redouble or bid over partner's Capp double of 1NT. If he bids something, the main question is "is double for penalty, or take-out?". There is no absolutely correct answer. The key is to have a firm agreement.
Most players are leaning towards take-out treatments of 2-level doubles so perhaps that will be most natural for your partnership. If so, then doubling would show at least 5 HCP and willingness to compete. It is a negative double in other words.
If you agree to this interpretation, then if you want to double for penalty you either have to pass, hoping for a reopening double, or if you can't afford to have partner pass, bidding game and giving up on a penalty.
If you bid a suit, I suggest that it is not forcing unless it is a bid of 3 of a major, or a jump. It shows about 5-9 HCP with at least a 5-card suit. 9 HCP would normally force to game, especially if partner shows a better hand (by doubling a stronger 1NT).
If you bid 2NT, that shows about 7-9 HCP with a stopper.

Hand 1 has to pass. You would have bid 2♠ had RHO passed but once he bids, you show some values if you bid.
Hand 2 should bid 2♥, nonforcing. A take-out double could yield a big return if partner has a club stack, but partner might also pass with 4 clubs to less good effect or you might get to the wrong fit if partner has 4 spades and 3 hearts.
Hand 3 is a perfect take-out double.
Hand 4 should bid 3♠, forcing (game forcing). It shows 5 spades. If partner bids 3NT you should pass even though it might be right to pull to 4♦.
RHO redoubles or makes an artificial bid
There are many possible sequences that start by doubling 1NT and we can't cover all of them here but we should consider these two:
1. If RHO redoubles, you can just ignore it. I.e., bid as if RHO had passed.
2. If RHO makes an artificial bid (Stayman or a transfer), you could agree a double has one of these meanings:
a. Showing 'cards', i.e. at least 6 HCP. Partner would be forced to compete if they stay at the 2-level.
b. Showing the suit doubled. If you double 2♣ Stayman, your double would show 5+ clubs and some values.
c. Showing a negative double, if RHO's bid showed a specific suit. If RHO bid 2♦ showing hearts, then double would show a take-out double of hearts.
Again, no right or wrong answer, just what you are both comfortable with and can remember. If you want my suggestion I say 'a' (cards).
Responding to a Capp 2♣ overcall
The 2♣ overcall shows any one suit. The expected response is 2♦, which is 'pass or correct': 2♣ overcaller will pass with diamonds and bid his suit otherwise. Since he advertises at least a reasonable 6-card suit and might have 7, partner is advised to normally bid 2♦.
Once the suit is revealed (normally by bidding 2 of a major), you can reevaluate and perhaps raise with a suitable hand. If it is close you can consider partner's style and the vulnerability. If partner will stretch to compete then you should try to give him 'room' and not try for game too aggressively.
There are two cases where you might not respond 2♦:
1. You have your own long suit. This should be done cautiously as partner may have risked coming in only because he has a long strong suit and is totally unprepared to play anywhere else.
2. You would want to try for game if partner has a 2♦ overcall. Of course if you bid 2♦ partner would pass and the bidding would presumably be over.
If you have your own long suit, you bid it. Of course you pass if you have long clubs. Jumping in a suit, or raising to 3♣, would show your own long strong suit with invitational values.
A 2NT response could be used to show an invitational or better hand. 2♣ overcaller would name his major if he has one. This should be forcing (don't bid 2NT if you can't handle 'forcing'). With a long minor, 2♣ overcaller either bids his minor to show a weak overcall, or bids 3NT with a better overcall.
What would you bid on the auction below?

Hand 1 is a clear 2♦ bid. Partner evaluates his hand as a 2-level overcall in diamonds and you have the 9 of trump and a side ace so you shouldn't be getting busy. And of course partner might have hearts or even clubs.
Hand 2 should clearly bid hearts. It is not good enough to jump to 3♥ invitational (though that might work if you catch fitting values). Bid 2♥, happily bidding game if partner raises.
Hand 3 should bid 2NT, showing at least an invitational hand.
You also declare that you plan to bid again over 3 of a major (you would raise). If partner raises to 3NT showing a decent minor suit overcall you pass happily. If partner bids 3♣ or 3♦, trying to get out, should you pass or bid 3NT anyway? That depends on the vulnerability and partner's style.
RHO doubles a Capp 2♣ overcall
Now you can pass, which is nice if the overcall is with long clubs; you can play it at the 2-level. Thus:

should show long diamonds. It is important not to forget this if you agree to it. Pass becomes the "what is your suit?" bid, not 2♦.
What should redouble mean? I think it should show some values, and willingness to play in 2♣ redoubled if overcaller has long clubs. The object is that overcaller can jump, perhaps to game, if he has a good overcall. I would redouble with:

As you can see you should advertise at least a 2-card fit for doubler's suit.
RHO bids over partner's Capp 2♣ overcall
The key question is "how do I invite partner to show his long suit?". Of course partner might be one of those who always plows ahead with his suit regardless, but you want to be able to distinguish between hands that are interesting and those that might not be. I say "might not be" because of course you don't know what the long suit is. Often you assume it is your shortest suit, but what if it isn't? Then you might miss a good fit.
If you bid a suit over RHO's bid, you show your own suit. This might be more tentative than it was when RHO passed over 2♣ since it is now a competitive auction. You should discuss whether this type of bid:

shows independent spades, or might be more tentative and allowing correction if 2♣ overcaller doesn't like spades and has a good suit of his own. I prefer the latter.

Hand 1 should bid 2♥. It costs little to see if partner likes hearts. As I suggested this should not be a command to pass; 2♣ overcaller can still bid his suit. Reverse the majors and now a double to say "bid your suit" has more appeal since you don't force partner to bid 3♥ as a 2♠ bid might.
Hand 2 should double to say "please bid your suit". Lest you think this unnecessary, consider hand 3 which passes hoping partner will NOT name his suit which 'must' be spades (of course on the rare occasion when it isn't this wouldn't be good).
A twist: RHO makes an artificial bid over a Capp 2♣ overcall

Now you can also cuebid 2♥, RHO's suit. If you can both remember it, you can play that double shows the doubled suit (diamonds in this case), and the cuebid (2♥ here) says "bid your suit".
Partner makes a Capp 2♦ overcall to show the majors
This one is pretty simple most of the time: pick a major. You can also jump to 3 of a major to invite or go all the way to game. If you have more cards in one major than the other, pick that suit even if you have more HCP in the short major.
If you have equal length in the majors, you can pick the stronger suit. If you are worried about being penalized, you might bid 2♥ regardless, planning to run to 2♠ if 2♥ gets doubled.
If you have a strong hand but no 4-card major, you can use the 2NT response which shows a good hand and asks for description. I suggest these responses:

3♣: 4 spades and 5 hearts
3♦: 5 spades and 4 hearts
3♥: 5-5 in the majors, weak hand
3♠: 5-5 in the majors, better hand
3NT: 4-4 in the majors
Hopefully if you have 4-4 in the majors you have at least an opening hand! In followup responder's 3 of a major is not forcing; 2♦ overcaller can judge whether or not to continue.

2NT showed game interest without a 4-card major. 3♦ showed 5 spades and 4 hearts. 3♠ was invitational and 2♦ overcaller has an easy acceptance. Of course if 2NT bidder expects a sound hand (due to style/vulnerability) he would bid 4♠ himself.
You might also pass the 2♦ overcall with long diamonds, or bid 3♣ with long clubs. Passing 2♦ is hazardous as partner might have 6-5 in the majors for example.
If you show the majors and partner bids 2 of a major, you should be cautious about raising since partner might have a 2-card fit and a weak hand. It is better to raise with strong shape than with moderate shape and a better hand. I think it is better to start with double if you have say 15 HCP and 5-4 in the majors.
Should you show the majors with 6-4? If you have a weak 6-card suit and good 4-card suit I would say yes (but of course this can backfire). If you have enough to take another bid then a more confident yes because you can show your long major if partner supports your 4-carder.

2♠ shows 6-4 in the majors and a decent hand. Partner has an ace and good major suit fillers.
RHO doubles 2♦
Now, you can pass to show diamonds, but 2♦ overcaller has a chance to bail out if he has no diamond tolerance and at least 10 cards in the majors. With say 5-5-0-3, he could balance with an SOS redouble.
You can use redouble to say "you pick the major". This is very useful if you have 3-3, or even more so if you are 2-2 in the majors. Other bids retain their normal meaning (ignoring the double).
RHO bids over 2♦
If RHO cuebids a major, then you can double to show maybe honor third in that major, allowing partner to compete with a suitable hand, or for the lead. Otherwise bid or pass normally.
If RHO bids 3 of a minor, double should be for penalty. You know what partner has, so double to ask him to clarify isn't especially necessary (though you might wish occasionally, if you have values and 3-3 in the majors, that double was take-out).
If RHO bids 2NT, often played as Lebensohl to sign off in 3 of a minor, I suggest double shows values and invites 2♦ hand to bid a 5-card major at the 3-level if he has some extras.
Partner overcalls 2♥ or 2♠ Capp
Partner shows 5-4 at least in his major and minor respectively. If you have 3-card support for the major then you have a fit and the only question is if you should raise. With 2-card support you have an adequate fit, and would normally disturb it only with an assurance of a better fit in a minor (this would require at least 4 in both minors).
As with the 2♣ overcall, the ambiguity about which minor partner has can lead to some bad miscalculations when your shortest minor is not his minor.

After the 2♠ overcall, partner would probably pass lest things get worse in 3♣. Clubs are overcaller's presumed minor but as you see, that is not the case.
Note that the overcalling hand has 14 HCP. I think it is usually best to start with double with good HCP hands and while this one is close, it illustrates the value of saving space with a hand like this. The bidding might instead go:

Of course they might also sell out to 2♥.
If partner wants to hear the minor (after a 2♥ or 2♠ overcall), 'standard' is that 2NT asks for the minor and other bids are natural and nonforcing. That is OK, but you might prefer this:

2NT: asks for the minor but shows game interest
3♣: 'pass or correct' for the minor
If 2♠ overcaller has a good hand he can bid past 3 of his minor (when the reply is a 'game interest' 2NT). Some would play that a 3♥ reply shows clubs and a 3♠ reply shows diamonds (both with good hands; with weaker hands just bid 3♣ or 3♦).
Conclusion
Cappelletti is a decent but far from flawless defense to a 1NT opening bid. It is best used when you think a double of 1NT should be card showing rather than some type of take-out. The convention is quite popular but many have not considered some of the questions I have addressed in this chapter.
Good luck and enjoy!
Practice your bidding on a new topic before using it at the table.
Practice these Bidding Topics with your partner using uBid!

Click Here







5Responses to a forcing 1NT
Introduction - responses to a forcing 1NT
A 1NT response is played by some as forcing one round, but only when the opening was in a major. This means that opener might have to rebid in a 3-card suit, on a hand that would otherwise pass the 1NT response - 5332 distribution and fairly minimum.
If opener has 6 cards in his major, or a side 4-card suit, he has an easy rebid available, though he will sometimes have to choose from more than one alternative rebid, for example:
• With 6-4 opener can either bid the second suit or rebid his major.
• With a 6-card major opener can rebid it at the 2-level, or jump in the long suit.
• With 5-4, opener normally bids the second suit but with a strong hand he can jump shift into the second suit.
Rebids with minimum hands
Distribution is important in evaluating a hand, not just the High Card Points (HCP). With 5332 opener has the worst shape and is not tempted to upgrade his hand (or only by 1 HCP if appropriate).
With 5332 shape, opener rebids his cheapest 3-card minor. This means rebidding 2♣ except when the shape is 5=3=3=2 (assuming a 1♠ opening); rebid 2♦ with this shape.
With 5-4 shape, rebid the second suit if it is lower-ranking. The only problem hand is one with 4 spades and 5 hearts.
I hear some of my friends (in my mind) saying "good advertisement for Flannery" (a 2♦ opening showing 5 hearts and 4 spades and 11-15 HCP). If you play Flannery you won't have this problem but if you don't, you rebid a 3- or 4-card minor. What if you are 4=5=2=2? Then you rebid 2♣ on a 2-card suit!
Bidding 2♣ on a 2-card suit may seem strange, but consider partner's hand: he does not have 4 spades, and probably does not have 3 hearts - if he does have 3 hearts he will raise hearts at the appropriate level. If partner has 2 hearts and no great length in either minor, he will take you back to 2♥. And if he does have length in a minor, he will pass or bid 2♦.

2♣ is a good contract even on only a 7-card fit. The problem is that partner has trouble evaluating his hand if you could have 2 clubs or 5 clubs or anywhere in between. Besides Flannery, another approach to this problem is to play that the 1NT response is 'semiforcing', i.e. that opener can pass with 5332 or also a Flannery hand. On the above deal 1NT is also a reasonable contract.
Imagine the responder hand above with the minors switched. He would probably pass 2♣ since you are quite unlikely to have only 2 and might well have 4 clubs and a stiff diamond. A weak 4-2 fit is not usually a good idea.
Opener has 6-4
Rebid the major, or show the second suit? I am not speaking about 4 spades and 6 hearts; the spades can be ignored in that case since there was no 1♠ response. You can use your judgment, guided by these principles:
With 6 spades and 4 hearts, rebid 2♥ not 2♠. The idea is to avoid missing a big fit, and possibly a game. This construction is not at all unlikely:

While not laydown, 4♥ is an excellent proposition and you have no chance to get there if you rebid 2♠; partner would pass. If you rebid 2♥, he will raise (perhaps to game); if to 3♥ then you would bid game.
One thing that helps is if partner takes you back to 2♠ with 2 spades and 3 hearts. This is a clear winner if you have 6-4. This is probably a small winner if you are 5-4 (a 5-2 is usually easier to play than a 4-3). It is a loser if you are 5-5 and aren't strong enough to rebid 3♥.
With 6-4 and a 4-card minor, tend to rebid the major. There are two exceptions:
The 6-card suit is very weak. In this case, partner will usually take you back to your major with a 2-card fit. If he has a singleton or void, the minor might be a better partscore:

Responder might also pass 2♦ which is certainly a better spot than 2♠.
Opener has a 'medium' hand not suited to a jump rebid of the long suit. We like to avoid jumping in a mediocre-or-worse 6-card suit since the 1NT response often has shortness in opener's major. With a side 4-card minor, there is an easy alternative bid.

4♠ will probably make if spades are 3-3, and there is no diamond ruff. 5♦ will also make on 3-3 spades and has good chances if spades don't split. If opener rebids 3♠, responder might raise, or bid 3NT which will probably not fare well on a club lead.
Rebids with medium hands
This was just discussed to some extent. There is no 'medium' rebid available in a lower-ranking suit: opener either bids the suit without jumping, which could be minimum or medium, or he jump shifts to show a maximum and force game.
If opener rebids his major he has the jump rebid available with a medium hand. As I said earlier, opener would like to have either a 7-card suit or a quality 6-card suit because of misfit possibilities.
It isn't so easy to put a point count requirement on the jump rebid since it depends on opener's playing strength and shape.
Ask yourself if you are interested in partner stretching to raise you to game, possibly with a stiff trump (of course not too aggressively in that case).
With 6322 shape, opener's minimum would be a very good 15.
With 7411 opener might be minimum in HCP. See what you would rebid over 1NT with the hands below:

Opener 1 is close between 2♠ and 3♠. With a singleton in the hand it is a clear 3♠ rebid, as it is with the ♠10 and an AKx suit, I prefer 3♠.
Opener 2 could reasonably rebid 2♠, 3♠ or 4♠. Jumping to 4♠ will work well if partner would pass 3♠ but it makes game. This pretty much relies on partner having good values in diamonds as opposed to hearts or clubs. I prefer the middle approach of 3♠ but don't object to a 2♠ bid, especially in a pairs event. 8 tricks could easily be the limit if partner has the wrong hand.
Opener 3 is a classic 3♠ bid. This time you would be happy if partner bid 3NT; with hand 2 you would remove 3NT to 4♠.
Opener 4 has the values for a 3♠ rebid, and is too strong to bid 2♠. However, the suit is weak so an alternative bid should be sought.
The alternative bid with medium hands and a weak 6-card major is two of a minor on a 3-card suit. On hand 4 that would mean a 2♦ rebid. This might seem counterintuitive and you might prefer to bid 3♠ and take your chances. However, suppose partner has this hand:

Partner has a problem over 3♠. He might pass or bid 3NT or even 4♠. The hearts are certainly not worth bidding at the 4-level, that would show something like

This would be the bidding if you rebid 2♦:

Opener might bid a conservative 3♥ and responder would go to game. If responder takes you back to 2♠, showing 2 spades, you can 'reraise' yourself to 3♠, invitational:

The 3♠ bid should show a medium hand with six trump, normally 6-4 but could be 6-3. Responder has a weak hand but the values he has are in opener's long suits so he should be aggressive and bid game.
Raising to 2NT
A raise to 2NT shows 17-18 HCP and 5332. 17 HCP with a 5-card suit is normally too strong for a 15-17 1NT unless there is a reason to downgrade the hand.
There are other shapes opener might have for the 2NT rebid if he thinks that is the best available bid:

Opener 1 does not seem worth a 3♦ jump shift, both because the hand isn't good enough and also that you are not likely to belong in a high-level diamond contract. A raise to 2NT looks to me like the best general description.
Opener 2 has to show some strength and jump rebidding such a trashy suit is not for me. I'm not going to rebid a 2-card minor or 3-card heart suit, so 2NT it is. Make the hand a little weaker, say Kx of clubs, and I would rebid 2♠, downgrading the hand.
Jumping to game
Jumping to 3NT shows 5332 and 19 HCP, or something close to that. Jumping to 4 of the major is similar to a 3-level jump rebid but with a better hand. Normally a 7-card suit is held, or a strong playing hand with a good 6-card suit. A 4♠ rebid is right with either of these two hands:

It might be right with hand 2 to play 3NT but it would not be easy to get there and know what you are doing. If you want to cater to this possibility you could jump shift to 3♣, then if partner bids 3♥ specifically, bid 3NT. Even then, partner could have

where 4♠ is best.
Jump shifting in a minor
For the same reason that 2 of a minor might be a 3-card suit, a jump shift in a minor could be a 3-card suit but only with a 6+card one-suiter. Suppose opener has this hand:

The correct rebid is 3♣. If partner bids hearts you have found a fit and are glad you didn't jump to 4♠. If partner bids 3♦ you have a choice between bidding 3♠ to show a sixth spade or bidding 3NT; I prefer 3♠.
Partner could easily have only 2 spades to bid 3♠ here, and your 4♠ bid says that you can play in 4♠ opposite two trump. If partner bids 3NT you have to pass. If partner raises to 4♣, you should bid 4♠, which I think should be cooperative, showing 6-3 or 6-4 and allowing a correction back to clubs.
Opener can upvalue a hand with good shape, but when the second suit is a minor it is best not to be too aggressive since a minor suit game requires 11 tricks and the hands might not fit well. Opener can show a medium 5-5 in some cases, especially when responder takes opener back to his major:

2♠ is known to be a playable contract so opener should bid again only with game interest. There might be a much better fit in diamonds so opener should describe his hand and let responder judge. Opener might have this hand:

Consider what these five responder hands might do over the 3♦ bid:

Responder 1 should pass 3♦, glad to find an 8-card fit.
Responder 2 should bid 4♠, loving having two queens in the 5-card suits. If you would have raised to 2♠ directly (not my style) then this hand wouldn't be possible.
Responder 3 should bid 5♦.
Responder 4 should bid 3NT.
Responder 5 has no fit and a poor hand so must choose pass or 3♠. Given your honor locations 3♠ seems best.
In all cases opener will pass responder's choice of contracts.
Thus a jump shift in a minor should show a hand worth forcing game, which means strong playability in the major, or good HCP. These are jump shifts in my opinion:

Reversing to 2♠
This shows at least a medium hand. The main question: is 2♠ forcing? There are arguments both ways and I don't feel strongly about it. It is worth having an agreement about one way or the other.
I don't think it is right to bid 2♠ over 1NT with 15-16 HCP and 4-5 in the majors. Bid a minor just as you would with a weaker hand. If partner takes you back to 2♥, you might continue with 2♠ (or 2NT), a 'pattern bid' and let partner decide what to do.
Autosplinters
This is a more advanced convention, but what would you think this bidding shows:

It could be Gerber, asking for aces, but if opener has that good a hand he should open 2♣. I think it should show a self-sufficient 7+ card major and shortness in clubs. Responder can cuebid or take over with the right hand for slam.


I would open 2♣ with this hand but many would open 1♠; if so a 4♣ continuation is descriptive.
If the opening is 1♠ and you rebid 4♥, that could easily be interpreted as a weak but very distributional hand with both majors so it is important to have an agreement. In fact, the natural interpretation of this double-jump seems better to me.
Using a reverse to 2♠ as an artificial strong bid
We have seen how hard it can be to bid flexible hand types, such as good one-suiters and 5440 patterns. This is a bit complex but you might find it appealing:

3♥: trying to get out; not interested in spades opposite 5-6
3♣ or 3♦: weak, long suit, no interest in a major
With most hands responder bids 2NT to ask for further description (or jumps to 4♥ to sign off).

3♣: 6 hearts, 6331 type, at least a good 16 HCP
3♦: 5 spades and 6+ hearts
3♥: 4-5-0-4, GF (game forcing)
3♠: 4-5-4-0, GF
3NT: 6 hearts balanced, GF
If opener bids 3NT, responder either passes or bids 4♥. If responder bids 4 of a minor that is a slam try in hearts.
If opener bids 3♥ or 3♠, responder signs off. If he has slam interest in the 4-card minor he raises. If he has heart slam interest, he bids the OTHER minor:

* 4-5-0-4, GF
Note that opener doesn't rebid the same GF values he has already shown, he bids Roman Keycard Blackwood (RKC) because he has even more.
If opener rebids 3♦ to show 5-6 in the majors, responder can bid 3♥ or 3♠ trying to sign off. Opener can bid again with a better hand. Opener might have as little as a good 13 HCP since he has such good shape.


* 5-6 in the majors, at least invitational
Responder has not much, but can visualize the fitting values in the majors as being enough to shoot out game. If responder has slam interest in a major he can bid 4 of a minor. Clubs = slam try in hearts, diamonds = slam try in spades.

* slam try in hearts
Of course 'Kickback', where 4♠ is RKC in hearts, is much better since opener could ask for the ♥Q.
If opener rebids 3♣ to show a 6331 invitational+, responder can attempt to sign off in 3♥, or game. 3♦ asks for the singleton and is GF. Use whatever responses you would to such an ask, I suggest steps (3♥ = short in clubs, 3♠ = short in diamonds, 3NT = short in spades).

* 3rd step = stiff spade
Responder's 4♦ theoretically sets diamonds but I think should also possibly be a slam try in hearts. Opener bids 4♥ with nothing special, RKC with a good hand. Responder corrects later if he wants to play in hearts.
If opener shows a stiff in a minor, then responder can bid 3♠ to show a heart slam try (or 4 of the short minor, if opener shows diamond shortness).

3♠: heart slam try
4♦: diamond slam try
* 3-6-3-1
Note that when opener has a stiff spade, there are 3 possible places to play, when short in a minor, only two. Thus, it is theoretically best to play that 3♥ over the 3♦ relay shows spade shortness. This allows a 3♠ bid to be a heart slam try and 4 of a minor to be natural. 3♠ would be short clubs and 3NT short diamonds.
Jeff Rubens called this the 'useful space principle' but of course you have to able to remember it.
Artificial 3♣ jump shift
This really is only necessary when the opening was 1♠. The idea is to distinguish GF one-suiters, and 4-card jump shifts from 5-5+ hands:

3♥: 4 hearts
3♠: 6 spades one-suiter
3NT: jump shift in clubs
This means that:

Note that 3♣ doesn't leave much room to clarify. Some are willing to give up a natural 2NT raise, a valuable bid, to leave more room for clarification (using 2NT as artifical):

3♦: 4-card diamond jump shift
3♥: 4-card heart jump shift
3♠: 6-card spade one-suiter
3NT: 5-4 jump shift with clubs
Note that responder should bid a forcing and natural 3♦ or 3♥ instead of 3♣ if he wants to 'get the suit in' before opener preempts that with his rebid. Responder can also bid 3♠ trying to get out or sign off in 4♠.

That leaves a free 3♥ rebid, which should show 5=3=0=5.

(1) at least 5-5 or 6-4 in spades and clubs
(2) asking for description
(3) 3 hearts, so 553
Responder would not bid 3♥ over an 'ordinary' 3♣ since that suggests a better suit.
Note that with a natural 2NT raise, opener either overbids and bids 3NT, or he bids 2 of a minor then follows with 2NT if he gets another chance to bid.
The last part is complex but could be worthwhile. Good luck!
Practice your bidding on a new topic before using it at the table.
Practice these Bidding Topics with your partner using uBid!

Click Here







6Inverted minors
Introduction
Back in the old days, a jump raise of an opening bid was game forcing. This made it simple for those trying to mass-market bridge but it wasn't practical. Inverted minors were first introduced as part of the Kaplan-Sheinwold system when it was realized that you want to chew up bidding space (i.e. preempt) with bad hands, not good hands.
The basic version was this:

You could muddle along with just this but of course there are further issues with both responses which I will address.
Single raise of a minor opening to show at least a limit raise
The first question is "what values do you need to show a limit raise?" The Kaplan-Sheinwold system used weak notrumps but I will be discussing these issues in the context of playing a 15-17 1NT opening.
To me a limit raise offers the possibility of 3NT opposite a good weak notrump, or perhaps 5 of the minor opposite the same or an unbalanced hand with a bit extra.
The second question is "how many trumps do I need for an inverted minor raise?" I will assume that 1♣ is opened with 3-3 in the minors, and 1♦ is opened with a 3-card suit only with 4=4=3=2 shape. This means a 1♦ opening should be assumed to be a 4+ card suit and 1♣ only 3. Thus, an inverted diamond raise can be made with 4-card support. An inverted club raise should deliver 5+ trumps (an exception is possible with 3=3=3=4 distribution). [Editor's note: a distribution shown with equal signs refers to specific suit lengths; for example, 5=4=1=3 means a hand with five spades, four hearts, one diamond and three clubs.]
If your shape is nothing special, then you need 10+ High Card Points (HCP) for an inverted minor raise. With 6+ trump you can go lower, perhaps to 8 HCP.
The third question is "can I have a 4-card major for an inverted minor raise?" It is perhaps possible; Bob Hamman once created such a method but it was very complicated. I recommend that an inverted minor raise denies a major (exception possible if you are not interested in a 4-4 fit in the major).
The fourth question is "should I be responding in notrump instead?" That requires a balanced hand and is a matter of judgment and we will look at that in a moment.
With all this in mind, what would you respond to partner's 1♦ opening with the hands below?

With hand 1, respond 1♠. It is quite possible that the only game you can make is 4♠, should opener have say ♠ K Q x x ♥ K J x ♦ A 10 x x ♣ x x. You will have to decide if and how to raise diamonds later.
Hand 2 is an ideal 2♦ inverted minor response. If you have any fit it is in diamonds (you have no fit if you face 4=4=3=2). The most likely contract is 3NT, but there is no rush to get there. First of all, it is probably better to have partner play it since you have no tenaces to be led around into. Give opener ♠ K x ♥ K x x ♦ A K 10 x x ♣ x x x and there are 9 top tricks. It is of course important for opener to play the hand to protect his ♠K.
Hand 3 should respond 2♣ (hopefully game forcing!). This is your only fit facing 4=4=3=2, and even if opener has 4 diamonds your best slam could be in clubs. Give opener
♠ x x ♥ A Q J x ♦ A x x x ♣ K x x and there are 12 top tricks in clubs, while 6♦ requires a 3-2 split and the diamond finesse. Even if opener lacks the ♥J, 6♣ would be better because there is no need for a 3-2 diamond split.
Hand 4 has an invitational notrump hand, in spite of the 4-card diamond fit. The honors are spread around and you have major suit stoppers. If a 2NT response shows 11-12 HCP you should bid that. If you have no invitational notrump response, then you should respond 2♦.
Opener's rebid over an inverted minor raise
The first question is "is a 2NT rebid forcing"? There is some case, especially at matchpoints, for 2NT being non-forcing. I think it is easier however for 2NT to be forcing one round.

3♦: weaker limit raise, non-forcing
3NT: better limit raise or game forcing hand that doesn't want to show another feature
Since responder will be raising with good limit raises, opener should try to have a bit extra to rebid 2NT. With a minimum and 4+ cards in the minor, he should consider 'reraising' to 3 of the minor, which is opener's weakest bid:

Opener might have ♠ J x ♥ A x x ♦ A x x ♣ Q 10 9 x x, if that is an opening bid in your methods. If not then improve the hand slightly.
Bidding 2 of a suit over an inverted minor raise
In general, a new suit shows a stopper in that suit and concern about bidding notrump, thus weakness in at least one other suit.
Suppose you have this hand:

You have 14 HCP so game seems a good gamble. However, with xx in spades you don't want to bid notrump at this point. I would bid 2♥, not promising a 4-card suit necessarily (though you have one), but showing a stopper in hearts.
In general, I recommend worrying primarily about unbid majors for 3NT. Responder can easily have 4 cards in the other minor but not in a major. Thus the message, for the moment, is that opener has a stopper in hearts but not in spades. Suppose the bidding continues:

Responder should be denying a spade stopper and showing a willingness to stop in 3♣. You could easily have 25+ HCP but no game. Suppose the two hands are as follows:

The last safe contract is 3♣, though you have good chances to make 4♣. Of course, if you just rebid 2NT you will occasionally avoid a spade lead and make 3NT. However, if responder has a spade stopper that should be led around into, you will be happy you bid the 'scientific' 2♥. Suppose you are facing this hand:

Over your 2♥ bid, responder should bid 2NT (all 2NT bids are forcing one round) and you raise to game.
Opener has an unbalanced hand
When opener has a singleton, especially with 5+ cards in his minor, he should make a serious effort to explore playing game or slam in the minor and not just settling for 3NT. There are two basic ways opener shows a short suit.
Opener can jump immediately over the inverted raise, as a splinter bid. This is the first way to show a singleton, the other way will be discussed under the next heading.

Opener shows at most a singleton heart. The question is how good a hand this shows, and whether it should be game forcing. I think it should show about 15+ HCP and be game forcing.
Suppose this is the layout:

3♥, a jump, shows 15+ with shortness. Responder bids Roman Keycard Blackwood (RKC) and has room to find out about the ♣K. Using 4NT as your RKC in this auction is seriously inefficient (I suggest Kickback, where 4♥ is RKC but that is not discussed here).
If 4♥ were RKC in diamonds the auction would go like this:

Over 5♥, as opposed to 5NT in the first auction, responder gives opener room to bid 5♠ to show the ♠K (a card that is wasted) and also the ♣K (which is magic).
Of course if you use 1430 responses opener would bid the 2nd step, not the 1st step.
Showing weaker unbalanced hands as opener
With a true minimum, 11-12 HCP, you can just reraise the minor to the 3-level, even though this does not specifically promise an unbalanced hand (but you need 4+ trump):

Opener might have either of these hands:

With a better unbalanced hand, but one not worthy of a splinter, opener can 'bid around' the singleton, i.e. bid the other two suits. Suppose opener has this hand:

This last bid, bidding a third suit, shows a singleton in the fourth suit (diamonds in this case). Opener has implied a hand with less than 15 HCP since he did not make a splinter bid. Responder can bid 4♣ (non-forcing), or bid game in clubs or notrump.
What bid would you make as responder in the above auction with the hands below?

Hand 1 should bid 4♣, non-forcing. You have only 10 HCP and the ♦Q looks wasted. You have a good play for 4♣ but no game.
Hand 2 should bid 3NT, being well prepared for a diamond lead and offering some help in hearts also.
Hand 3 should bid 5♣, having now a very good hand for a club contract (but of course not NT opposite a singleton diamond).
Responder wants to show an unbalanced hand
Responder is a round behind opener since opener made his bid first:

There is a lot less room; the bidding is too high for a splinter bid and certainly no room to 'bid around' the singleton.
However, if opener rebids 2NT responder can bid 3 of a major to show shortness. This is possible because responder has already denied a 4-card major:

This 3♥ bid is also game forcing. If the hands fit well there might be a slam:

Responder's 3♠ bid, over opener's 2NT, shows at most 1 spade and a game forcing or better hand. Opener's 4♣ shows interest in a club contract (game or higher). Responder control bids 4♥ to show slam potential and opener, with a perfect maximum, jumps to slam.
This is a delicate auction. If 4♦, 'one over' the trump suit (clubs) at the 4-level, would have been RKC, then control bidding above that shows interest but not a good enough hand to bid RKC with. On that basis, opener gives up on a grand slam and jumps to 6♣.
If opener reraises to 3 of the minor, then responder can only bid a notrump stopper at the 3-level:

Responder's 3♥ bid shows a stopper in hearts and thus by inference, weakness in spades (because spades are the other major). Opener has an easy 3NT bid.
Opener shows the minors
Opener can bid the other minor, which is natural. This does show something extra, at least distributionally, but does not force us past 3 of the minor:

Opener might have ♠ K x ♥ Q ♦ Q J 9 x x ♣ K J 9 x x.
In this case he would certainly pass 3♦.
Responder shows a game forcing raise
I think that if opener rebids 2NT, that responder can show a game forcing raise by bidding the other minor:

Responder would tend to prefer bidding 3 of a major if he had a game forcing raise with shortness in a major.
Opener can cuebid at the 3-level if his hand has some potential for a high-level contract in the minor.

3♣ showed a game forcing diamond raise, normally with no short major. 3♥ showed a control in hearts, as did 3♠ and 4♣. 4♥ was Kickback - RKC for diamonds.
If opener rebids a new suit at the 2-level, I think that 3 of the other minor should be game forcing, similar to over the 2NT rebid:

If these are the hands:

the bidding might continue:

3♥ and 3♠ were control bids, and opener, holding prime cards and decent trumps, advances with 4♣ to show a reasonable hand. Remember the 2♥ bid implies a hand with weakness in spades. 4♦ is Kickback and 5♦ shows the trump queen + the ♦K.
Opener makes a high level rebid
It is commonly played that a jump to 4 of the minor is RKC. Opener would normally want more information before bidding RKC but sometimes he has the hand for it:

4♠ showed 2 keycards without the trump queen.
Another bid opener can make is 3NT. This shows 18-19 balanced with good stoppers and usually only a 3-card minor (if 4, then not a good slam hand).

If opener has 18-19 balanced with a good slam hand, he rebids 2NT then bids again, unless responder retreats to 3 of the minor (in which case opener has to judge).

Responder shows more than a minimum by raising to game so opener comes again with 4♦, showing 18-19 balanced, a more slam suitable hand, and no control in clubs (since he bypassed a 4♣ control bid).
Responder has significant extras so he bids 4♥ Kickback. He could well bid 6NT instead of 6♦ and should do so in a matchpoint game.
Interference over an inverted raise
If they double for take-out, opener can show extras with defensive potential by redoubling. Otherwise, it should be 'system on', i.e. ignoring the double. If opener has a balanced hand that might prefer to be dummy if 3NT is the contract, he can pass.

3NT might be a struggle but it is certainly better played from responder's hand.
If they overcall, opener can double for penalty, bid naturally, jump for a splinter, or pass. If it comes back to responder, a reopening double should show 3 trumps and a balanced hand.
With shortness in their suit and some extras, opener can cuebid their suit. This should not promise 15+ and it should allow an out in 4 of the minor:

Opener might have ♠ A 10 3 ♥ 2 ♦ A J 9 4 3 ♣ A 10 8 7. 4♦ should be playable and you want to clue responder in to your heart shortness right now.
Interference directly over the 1 minor opening
The main question: do inverted minors apply if they overcall or make a takeout double? It is certainly possible to play them 'on' but I recommend not doing so. If they overcall, a cuebid shows at least a limit raise. This allows a single raise at the 2-level to be a normal 6-10 point raise.
Suppose partner opens 1♦ and you have this hand:

You can respond 1NT. However, if RHO bids 1♥, you want to raise diamonds so you would want to bid 2♦ to show a standard single raise in diamonds.
Some allow a raise (of 1♦ only) with 3-card support in competition. For example, responder might have ♠ 8 7 6 ♥ 9 2 ♦ K J 3 ♣ A J 9 7 6. Again, if RHO passes you respond 1NT but if he overcalls a major, you can raise to 2♦ if that is permissible in your partnership (I think it should be).
Responder makes a preemptive raise
The main issue is how weak can responder be? Should opener convert to 3NT with 18-19 balanced, or does the jump raise show such a bad hand that opener should pass?
In the absence of a third raise, then I suggest that the jump raise show a hand that is willing to hear opener bid 3NT with 18-19 balanced.
A hand with 7-9 (bad 10) HCP is what has been called a 'mixed' or 'constructive' raise, while a weaker hand is more classically preemptive. Some play, wisely, a 2-level jump to show the mixed raise, with the jump to 3 of the minor being truly weak and preemptive.
I recommend a jump to 2♠ to show a mixed raise. This is more preemptive than a jump to 2♦ or 2♥ and leaves these cheaper jump shifts for some other purpose.

2♠ showed a 'mixed raise' in clubs.

3♣ shows a bad (preemptive) raise and opener passes.
Showing an immediate limit raise
Some prefer to make an inverted raise game forcing and avoid a lot of the issues we discussed in this article. To do this they need another jump shift (say 2♥) to show exactly a limit raise:

2♦: game forcing raise
2♥: limit raise
In this case, if opener rebids 2NT over 2♥ responder should be able to pass having limited his hand.
Conclusion
Inverted minors are a great convention but as you see there are a number of things to discuss. Good luck!
Practice your bidding on a new topic before using it at the table.
Practice these Bidding Topics with your partner using uBid!

Click Here







7Roman Keycard Blackwood
Introduction and first scheme
Roman Keycard Blackwood, abbreviated RKCB or RKC, is one of the best innovations in bridge bidding ever in my opinion. Regular Blackwood, asking for aces, was a great start:
1♠ - 2♥
3♣ - 4NT
5♣: no aces
5♦: 1 ace
5♥: 2 aces
5♠: 3 aces
5NT: 4 aces
This allowed us to avoid slams missing two aces. At least sometimes. Responses to 4NT can sometimes get us too high if two aces are missing, depending on which suit is trump.
It was then discovered that the king of trump was as important as an ace. Suppose these are the combined hands:

or

Opposite East 1 slam is poor. The fact that you are missing the king of trump, not the ace, gives you some play but less than fifty percent. Opposite East 2 slam is nearly laydown. The trump king is a 'Keycard' to be sure, while the ♣K is not.
Thus, there are five 'Keycards': the four aces + the king of trump. A new scheme of responding is required now that a new 'ace value' is shown:

5♣: 0 or 3 Keycards
5♦: 1 or 4 Keycards
5♥: 2 Keycards, no trump queen
5♠: 2 Keycards, has trump queen
Note that we have room, when 'replier' (the hand replying to 4NT) has two Keycards, to also show the trump queen. Just as the trump king is important, the trump queen is also important but not as vital, so it is not counted as a Keycard. The trump queen will be shown separately, as the trump queen is not really needed when you have a 10+ card trump fit:

Opener knows that there is at least a 10-card ♠ fit, so the trump queen rates to drop in two rounds. If they are 3-0, then if you guess which honor to cash first the trump queen is picked up that way also.
When there is only an 8-card fit, and to a lesser extent a 9-card fit, the trump queen is very important:

There are 5 Keycards. Opener has 2 and responder shows 2, so one is missing. The 5♥ reply denies the trump queen, so opener should sign off in 5♠. If dummy has KJx of trump slam has some play but less than fifty percent. If responder had bid 5♠ to show 2 Keycards + the trump queen, opener would bid slam.
Asking for the queen of trump after a 5♣ or 5♦ reply
If the reply is 5♣ or 5♦, then the trump queen has not been shown nor denied. If asker wants to know about the trump queen, he bids the next step (if the next step is the trump suit, skip over that (which is a sign-off) to the next step to ask for the queen of trump):

versus

Of course asker does not ask for the queen of trump if he has it, or if he knows there is at least a 10+ card trump fit.

These are the responses to the queen ask:
1. If you lack the queen of trump, return to the trump suit at the lowest level. In the above auction, responder would bid 5♠ to deny the trump queen.
2. If you have the trump queen or you know there is a 10-card fit, which is equivalent to having the trump queen:
• if you have no side-suit kings (the trump king = an 'ace'!), bid 6 of trump (6♠ in the above auction);
• if you have one side king, bid the suit of the king;
• if you have more than one king, bid the cheapest one.
In the above sequence, responder has the trump queen and the ♣K, so his correct reply is 6♣. Opener would bid 7♠ over the 6♣ reply.
Trump queen ask that is past 5 of the agreed suit
Sometimes the trump queen ask goes past 5 of our agreed suit. This is not a good situation if a Keycard is missing; asker has to guess whether to bid slam or sign off in 5. Asking for the trump queen PAST 5 of the agreed suit thus shows ALL missing Keycards and is a try for a grand slam:

Responder wants to show the trump queen with no side king, but the cheapest bid in trump is 6♥: does that deny the trump queen, or show the trump queen with no side king?
This is a matter for partnership agreement. I recommend the following for this situation (trump queen ask past 5 of trump):
6 of the trump suit denies the trump queen,
  5NT shows the trump queen but no king to cuebid.
The auction would thus continue:

Bidding 5NT to ask for specific kings
If asker continues with 5NT, he is showing all the 'key values' (the 5 Keycards + the queen of trump), trying for seven, and asking replier to bid his cheapest king. Lacking any side-suit kings, replier returns to trump at the 6-level.

What if the cuebid king is not the right king, but another king that replier might still have is good enough? Asker's bid of another suit, following the reply to 5NT, says "bid 7 if you have this king". On the above auction, if opener had♥AQxx and ♦A, he could continue with 6♥ to tell responder to bid 7 if he has the ♥K.
Another example:

Here is my suggestion:

Opener counts 13 tricks.
Asker bids a new suit (not the queen ask or 5NT)
What does 6♣ mean in an auction like this?

6♣ must be artificial in this auction, since we have a known 9+ card spade fit. I suggest artificial new suit continuations by asker say "bid 7 if you have THIRD round control of this suit".
A third round control is the queen; however, responder can bid 7 with a doubleton, as opposed the to queen, if he has sufficient trump support (four-card support is sufficient if there is a known 9+ card fit).
Here is a deal where this might apply:

6♣ - 7♣: "I have third round control of clubs".
Can 6 of a different suit be trying to play there?
In other auctions it will be less clear that 6 of a new suit should be asking partner to bid 7 with third round control. Two examples:
1.
1♠ - 2♦
2♠ - 4NT
5♠ - 6♦?
2.
1♥ - 2♣
3♣ - 3♥
4NT - 5♥
6♣?
I do suggest that if you want to play third round control asks, you need to define when they do or don't apply. To keep it simple, you might just agree that they all are EXCEPT in a bid-and-raised second suit.
Using the above rule, 6♦ would be asking in sequence 1, 6♣ would be an ofter to play in 6♣ (bid-and-raised suit) in sequence 2.
Is 4NT RKC?
This is an involved subject which I will deal with only briefly in this article. Here are some rules I suggest, for non-competitive bidding (4NT is more likely to be 'take-out' or the like in a highly competitive auction and is not the subject of this article):
1. If there is no clear agreement to the contrary, 4NT = RKC.
2. If a major suit is firmly agreed, 4NT is RKC.
3. Otherwise, raising notrump is 'Quantitative' (invitational).
1♦ - 1♠
2NT - 4NT: invitational
1♠ - 2♣
2♠ - 2NT
3NT - 4NT: invitational
More on using 4NT as a quantitative raise of NT.
Certain auctions when we open 1NT or 2NT use 4NT as a quantitative bid:
a. You bid Stayman and your next bid is 4NT:
1NT - 2♣
2♥ - 4NT: about a good 15 to 17 HCP, invitational and natural
b. You bid a Jacoby transfer and your next bid is 4NT:

In the above auctions, you can agree that a JUMP to 4♣ is 'Gerber', asking for aces (Keycards if you prefer, see the section on RKC Gerber).
You can also use a Texas transfer at the 4-level, then a 4NT followup as RKC:

There are certainly other auctions where you may wish 4NT is natural but I suggest you spell them out. If you don't, then 4NT is RKC.
What suit is trump?
In the examples so far a trump suit was firmly established. What if no trump suit has been established?
If no suit is clearly established, trump = the last naturally bid suit.
1♠ - 2♥
3♣ - 4NT: RKC in clubs, the last naturally bid suit
This is logical, as responder seems excited that opener just bid clubs.
1NT - 2♣
2♥ - 4♣: Gerber, but RKC in hearts, the last naturally bid suit
There are situations where this agreement isn't ideal. In the first example sequence, responder might wish to RKC with spades trump instead of clubs. He has to first bid 3♠ (surely even if you don't play 2 over 1 Game Force, 3♠ now would be forcing), to set trump, then bid 4NT next time:
1♠ - 2♥
3♣ - 3♠
4♠ - 4NT: RKC in spades, the agreed suit
Responder might have a solid heart suit and wish to RKC in hearts. You need some special convention to accomplish this; most people don't have one so the best shot is to rebid hearts, hoping to get a raise:
1♠ - 2♥
3♣ - 3♥
4♥ - 4NT: RKC in hearts
If opener is not obliging then you are stuck:
1♠ - 2♥
3♣ - 3♥
3NT - ?
RKC Gerber
I suggested that when partner has opened or rebid in notrump, a JUMP to 4♣ is Gerber:
1NT - 2♣
2♥ - 4♣: Gerber because it is a jump in a 'notrump opening or rebid' sequence. RKC because there was a natural suit, hearts, bid.
Responses are in steps, just like when 4NT is RKC. I suggest that you use the same step responses for all RKC/ace asks:
1NT - 2♣
2♥ - 4♣
4♦: 0 or 3 Keycards
4♥: 1 or 4 Keycards
4♠: 2 Keycards, no trump queen
4NT: 2 Keycards, trump queen
Continuations would be normal RKC continuations, with a bid in hearts a sign-off, a rebid of 5♣ asking for specific kings, and the cheapest other bid asking for the queen of trump if opener didn't indicate whether he had it or not.

If there have been no natural suits, then only aces are shown. I suggest this:
1NT - 4♣: Gerber for aces
or
1NT - 2♣
2♦ - 4♣: Gerber for aces
The 2♦ rebid is artificial so 4♣ is not RKC in diamonds.
1NT - 4♣
4♦: 0 or 3 aces
4♥: 1 or 4 aces
4♠: 2 aces, minimum
4NT: 2 aces, maximum
Don't bid Gerber if you might wish to play in 5♣, because a continuation of 5♣ asks for kings.
Any other continuation is a sign-off.

Is there an ambiguity about '0 or 3' or '1 or 4' Keys/aces?
Most of the time when the reply is given it will be clear exactly what number of Keycards are held:
1♠ - 4NT with ♠ K9865 ♥ AKQ43 ♦ A2 ♣ 3
5♣: 0 or 3, must be 0 because only 2 Keycards are missing;
5♦: 1 or 4, must be 1 for the same reason.
In a few cases, especially with distributional hands that are low in Keycards, it won't be clear. For example the hand discussed above with KQJ9xxxx in spades might have been facing all four aces, in which case you want to bid 7NT, not 4♠. How to solve this problem?
If partner signs off affer you show 1 or 4 (aces or Keycards) and you have 4, bid the cheapest step. This allows partner to ask for the queen of trump (cheapest step) or specific Kings (second step).
When partner asks there is no way that '4' is a disappointing answer. In the KQJ9xxxx case, opener would continue with 4NT and responder would bid 7NT.
With 3 when you showed 0 or 3, it isn't so simple as there are certainly situations where 3 Keycards would be expected (you showed a strong hand):

At some point there has to be a 'cutoff', a point where it is assumed that you don't have 0 Keycards, I suggest that point is a strong notrump or better shown in the bidding (but discuss and decide for yourself).
1♠ - 4NT
5♣ - 5♠
?
Opener must bid on with 3 Keycards since opener has not shown at least a strong notrump in the bidding. However, over 5♠ he should pass with 0 Keycards.
RKC 1430
In this type of auction:

If one Keycard and the trump queen are missing, responder has to guess. Someone figured this out and decided to switch the meaning of 5♣ and 5♦:

This way, in the more likely 'favorable case', 1 Keycard as opposed to 0 Keycards, the 5♣ response gives you room to ask for the trump queen with 5♦. If partner has no Keycards you usually want to sign off anyway.
One more reason to play 1430: if clubs are trump, a 0 Keycard response is less likely than 1 Keycard, and if 2 are needed for slam then the 5♣ response doesn't carry us past our safe 5♣ contract.
This switch is called '1430' because '1 4' comes before '0 3'. 1430 is quite popular these days and if you like it then play it. Personally, I don't like it at all, I prefer to solve these problems by having a cheaper RKC bid available:
1♥ - 2NT
4♥ - 4♠: RKC in hearts!
4NT: 0 or 3
5♣: 1 or 4, etc.
In all cases there is room to show the trump queen below 5 of trump. This 'cheaper RKC' has various names depending on which version exactly is used, but the above was named 'Kickback' by Jeff Rubens (editor of The Bridge World magazine, another great source of bridge information) who, as far as I know, invented it.
Quiz
Pick the sequence given the two hands, assuming 15-17 1NT openings, Jacoby 2NT responses, splinter bids and normal RKC responses (0314, not 1430). West is the opener.

answers

Stayman then 4NT = quantitative. Opener has an easy pass.

4♣ = RKC Gerber for spades, 4♥ = 1 or 4 Keycards. 4NT, the cheapest non-signoff, asks for the trump queen since opener didn't promise or deny it. 5♠, the cheapest bid in trump, denies the trump queen.
It is true that 5♠ is uncomfortably high, and responder might instead bid 4♥ splinter over 2♠ and Pass 4♠. However, might opener not bid 4♠ over 4♥ with KQxx Kxx and otherwise the same hand? I think a splinter shows less than this; responder is justified in taking control.

3♠ shows some values + a fit, 5♦ 1 Keycard. 5♥ asks for the trump queen, and 6♦ shows the trump queen + the ♦K.

4NT is RKC in clubs, the last natural suit. 5♦ shows 1 Keycard, 5♥ is the trump queen ask 'above 5 of trump', and is thus a try for 7. 5♠ shows the ♣Q + the ♠K, and perhaps other less-cheap kings. Affer 5♠ responder has enough information to to jump to the grand, especially as 3♣ shows extra values (a very common treatment in 2 over 1).

4NT is Keycard in spades (I recommend this, you are a lot more likely to have a hand like this where you want to shut the opponents out than a hand with a solid 10-card suit and just want aces).
5♣ shows 0 or 3, and 5♠ says "Pass with 0, bid cheapest step with 3", since opener has not promised a strong notrump or better. Opener bids the cheapest bid, 5NT, to show 3 and responder bids the grand slam.
Other issues
There are other issues about RKC, which as you can see is a complex subject, that I won't cover here, such as:
• interference over RKC;
• Kickback, Redwood, minorwood and other cheap RKC bids;
• Super Gerber;
• special types of RKC;
• bidding over a Quantitative 4NT;
• showing all 5 Keycards.
Practice your bidding on a new topic before using it at the table.
Practice these Bidding Topics with your partner using uBid!

Click Here







8Serious 3NT
Introduction
It is a long-recognized problem, in a possible slam auction, whether a player should control-bid regardless of the strength of their hand. An example auction:
1♠ - 2♥
2♠ - 3♠*
?
* forcing (of course)
Must opener control bid 4♣ with a hand like:

or should he show a minimum by bidding 4♠? It is certainly important to clarify value ranges, but on some hands responder merely needs to know that opener has a control of some kind in a particular suit (clubs here). Give responder this hand:

and he can bid 4NT asking for aces/key cards once he hears opener bid 4♣. What if opener bids 4♠ instead? Now responder is in a quandary. Is it safe to go to the five-level? And if so, how best to proceed?
First choice: forget about the clubs and bid 4NT. This works well if you aren't missing two club tricks (and have enough key cards as well). Or they might not lead a club, but with only two unbid suits to choose from, the odds of success in that case aren't good.
Second choice: control bid at the five-level (5♦ presumably, to point out the problem in the club suit). This is always unappealing since opener doesn't know what he needs to accept. Opener might have the same hand with KJx of clubs and accept, as he has club control. This is fine except we are missing two aces if opener's hand is:

Third choice: pass 4♠ and give up. In this case an excellent slam is missed.
Serious 3NT when a major suit is firmly agreed as trump
Recognizing this problem—how to proceed—in the early Eighties I invented 'Serious 3NT'. The concept fits perfectly well within the frame work of 'two-over-one game forcing' methods.
In the auction we have been discussing:
1♠ - 2♥
2♠ - 3♠
?
3NT will not often be the best spot and if it is, how do we know that in the bidding? So, we make 3NT part of the spades-are-trump machinery. The basic idea:
• bidding 3NT says "I'm serious about slam";
• bypassing 3NT to control bid at the 4-level says "I'm not serious about slam; I'm cuebidding as a courtesy to you".
1♠ - 2♥
2♠ - 3♠
?

Hand 1 is very nice: 14 High Card Points (HCP), some shape - having a singleton in partner's heart suit isn't necessarily bad - and good outside values (an ace and a king). Start by bidding 3NT to say that you are serious about slam:
1♠ - 2♥
2♠ - 3♠
3NT: serious
Hand 2 isn't very good but it does have so-so trump and a side ace. You want to show the club control but want to warn partner that your hand isn't wonderful. Bypass 3NT to control bid 4♣:
1♠ - 2♥
2♠ - 3♠
4♣: club control but non-serious
There are two more possibilities:

Bid 4NT Roman Keycard Blackwood (RKC). With a sufficiently good hand, opener can just take over. So:
1♠ - 2♥
2♠ - 3♠
4NT: RKC

Bid 4♠. You have no keycards so you should do everything you can to discourage partner; try to sign off in game:
1♠ - 2♥
2♠ - 3♠
4♠: sign-off
Situations where Serious 3NT applies
There are three basic situations where Serious 3NT is commonly used:
1. Responder makes an immediate forcing raise
A majority of modern players use 2NT for this purpose ('Jacoby 2NT' in America). Some players prefer 2NT to be natural and game forcing and use a jump to 3♣ as their forcing raise.
1♠ - 2NT*: four or more trumps, game forcing, sets spades * or, 3♣ if that is your system
2. Responder makes a delayed forcing raise
Direct forcing raises show four or more trumps. With a three-card forcing raise, responder normally makes a two-over-one response, then raises at his next turn:
1♠ - 2♣
2♦ - 2♠: forcing spade raise
I should note that I presume a system of five-card majors and two-over-one game forcing. If you play something else, things are complicated (try switching!) but you can use some of the same sequences.
There are more variations. First, opener might bid a major suit on the second round which responder raises:
1♠ - 2♣
2♥ - 3♥: sets hearts as trump. Presumably a 4-4 fit unless opener has a fifth heart.
Let's stop to look at a full deal example showing the above sequence:

1♠ - 2♣
2♥ - 3♥
?
Slam has pretty good play, but it will be very difficult if opener has to bid 4♥ now to limit his hand. Opener might have a hand like:

so responder can't safely go past 4♥. The correct sequence will be discussed a bit later.
Sometimes responder has to go through a 'two step' to show a forcing major suit raise:
1♥ - 1♠
2♣ - 2♦: fourth suit forcing to game
3♣ - 3♥: three-card forcing raise in hearts
Those who don't play two-over-one as game forcing might have to bid similarly after a two-over-one and you will find that you run out of space in a hurry:
1♠ - 2♥
2♠ - 3♣
3NT - ?
You have to raise spades at the four-level now, which of course isn't forcing.
3. Opener raises responder's major (game forcing)
One case comes to mind:
1♠ - 2♥
3♥: setting hearts as trump
What you bypass, you deny
The luxury we have playing Serious 3NT is that we can control bid with minimum hands just in case that is all partner needs to know. So, it is important to know when a certain bid denies a possibly key control. The rule is simple:
what you bypass, you deny.
1♠ - 2♣
2♥ - 3♥
?
With:

you are clearly non-serious. However, your hand isn't awful, it is just minimum so you should cooperate. The first bid that comes up is 3♠ since you have a spade control, therefore bid 3♠. Suppose the bidding continues like this:
1♠ - 2♣
2♥ - 3♥
3♠ - 4♣: non-serious control bid
Responder has bypassed bidding 3NT, so he is not serious about slam ('what you bypass, you deny'). So it is easy: sign off in 4♥; don't cuebid the diamond control.
Suppose instead responder had bid 3NT serious, now you would continue the process. Should you bid 4♣, with your singleton club? Or should you bid 4♦?
This is a matter of partnership agreement, but I would say do not cuebid shortness-controls in suits partner has bid. Thus, a 4♣ bid here would show the ♣A or king, not shortness. So, you should bid 4♦, denying the ♣A or king but promising first or second round control of diamonds (which might be a singleton or void since diamonds are an unbid suit).
Responder has:

and can easily Blackwood your side into 6♥.
Agreeing on a major at the two-level
This is truly a good situation, if a game force is established. Two-over-one game force players have this situation occur with some frequency, anytime opener rebids a lower-ranking suit at the two-level and responder has support for opener's major:
1♠ - 2♣
2♦ - 2♠: three-card forcing spade raise
You could simply agree that everything now is control bidding. Or, you could agree that opener makes one natural bid now, THEN control bidding proceeds. The latter is what I suggest, since this 'shape' information can be quite useful:

1♠ - 2♣
2♦ - 2♠
3♣ - 3♦
3♥ - 3NT
4♦ - 4NT
5♦ - 5♥
6♦ - 6♠
This auction is quite a long one, and raises some further questions I'll deal with in a bit. First of all, the 2♠ rebid sets spades as trump and since it is at the two-level, allows opener one natural bid. 3♣ shows three clubs, so opener is 5-1-4-3 (perhaps with a heart void, say with 5-0-5-3). This excites responder who has no wasted values in hearts.
'What you bypass you deny', so responder bids 3♦ to show the ♦A or king (no cuebidding singletons or voids in suits partner has bid). Now, opener has a heart control which he has already shown by inference from his 3♣ bid. However, to make sure he bids it again here. Now, responder confirms that he is serious by bidding 3NT. Opener confirms that he has a diamond control by bidding 4♦. This is all that responder needs, as he bids 4NT to find about the ace and queen of trump. 5♦ shows one (or four) keycards (♠K + the four aces); 5♥ asks for the trump queen, and 6♦ shows the trump queen + the ♦K, but not the ♣K.
If this last bit is a little bit fancy, fine; over 4♦ and finding out - via a more simple version of Blackwood - that opener has the ♠A, responder can shoot out 6♠ figuring it has some play anyway.
If you don't play Roman Keycard Blackwood I highly recommend reading about it in chapter 7.
System foundation and Serious 3NT
If you are going to play Serious 3NT, you have to agree which auctions it applies to. It isn't necessary to discuss each possible sequence as long as you have a 'system foundation' that both partners understand. For example:
1♠ - 2♣
2♦ - 2♠
Does this really promise three spades, or might it be a hand such as:

I feel strongly that 2♠ must promise three spades. If you have the above example hand, you must bid something else, my preference is to bid fourth suit-forcing, which in this case is 2♥. Of course if the hand had stronger hearts:

you could continue with 2NT, not 2♥.
The main point I am making is this:
raises of majors set trump, preferences do not.
The reason I like 2♠ to promise a fit is so that I can clearly distinguish my 'raises' from my 'preferences'. With the first example hand, the bidding might continue:
1♠ - 2♣
2♦ - 2♥: fourth suit-forcing
3♦ - 3♠: preference, i.e. only two spades. An honor in spades would normally be expected (at least Jx)
An alternate bid on this auction would be to raise to 4♦, as you have a 5-3 diamond fit. The point, if you did continue with 3♠, it is clear that opener's 3NT now would NOT be serious!
If opener has:

he would continue with a natural 3NT over 3♠. You would then have to decide whether to pass or continue with 4♦, showing three-card diamond support. Your help in hearts combined with having weak diamonds should lean you toward passing 3NT.
There are other 'foundation' issues you should discuss. Some examples:
1. Do raises of major suit responses at the one-level promise four trumps? If they do, then trump are set and 3NT can be serious; if not then 3NT would be natural. So:
1♦ - 1♠
2♠: does this promise four trumps?
2. Does opener's rebid of his major after a two-over-one response promise a six-card suit? Or might it be a 'stall' with only five trumps:
1♠ - 2♥
2♠: does this promise a sixth spade?
Of course there are arguments both ways on both issues, just know that your answers affect later auctions. For example in this auction:
1♠ - 2♥
2♠ - 3♠
If opener could have only five spades the auction is very unfocused. There is a stronger case for a 4♠ bid to show a minimum with only five trumps (or perhaps a terrible hand with six). I.e., the 'warning bid' of 4♠ must be used more freely.
Is 3NT serious on these auctions?
Remember that sometimes there is no absolutely right answer; it depends on your foundation agreements and when you choose to apply Serious 3NT.

Auction 1 clearly is not: 3♠ is not forcing so we are not in a game force; 3♠ didn't set trump either so 3NT is clearly natural.
Auction 2 is serious: a major was set in a game forcing sequence. Since opener bypassed control bidding 3♠ he would deny a spade control.
Auction 3 is one to discuss. At the three-level there is less room. Here, there is room to bid 3♦ as fourth suit forcing so I think 3♠ should set trump. Perhaps it is most practical to NOT use Serious 3NT in all these dubious cases.
Auction 4 clearly is not serious. 3♠ was a preference, as responder didn't raise spades earlier.
Auction 5 is serious, presuming 2NT was a forcing spade raise.
Auction 6 is serious since opener set hearts by bidding 3♥.
Am I serious?
You can answer this by asking yourself a question or two:
1. Do I have significant extra values for my bidding to date?
2. Do I need partner to have a lot of extras to make slam?
'Extra values' is admittedly not a precise concept but that is because when you are contemplating a slam in a suit, distribution is very important.
For example on this auction:
1♥ - 2♣
2♠ - 3♠
?

These two hands are identical in HCP and high card location. The first hand is minimum but has okay values. I would bid 4♥, denying a minor suit control (in clubs, responder's suit, it merely denies the ♣A or king) but showing a control in hearts, AND, since I didn't bid 3NT, non-serious.
Hand 2 is serious indeed. The hand has an extra trump, and nine-card fits tend to play much better than eight-card fits. There are two potential 'holes' in the hand: the ♠Q and the ♥Q. Also, you would like to avoid being at the five-level if partner has no aces, say with:

(I address this issue in the "Principle of Fast Arrival" section.) Start by bidding 3NT and see what happens.
If you improve the hand to:

you can just bid 4NT yourself since partner surely has at least one ace now. With:

responder should jump to 4♠, to discourage you from bidding again.
Assuming you don't have great shape, you are serious if you have significant extra HCP, or you have good values and some extra shape. On the auction we have been discussing,
1♥ - 2♣
2♠ - 3♠
?
these two hands are serious:


Hand 1 by virtue of fifteen nice HCP, hand 2 by virtue of thirteen nice HCP with 6-4 shape.
Responder might be the one to decide if he is serious or not:
1♠ - 2♣
2♥ - 3♥
3♠ - ?

Hand 1 has some decent cards, but with 14 HCP you are close to minimum. Bid 4♣, a 'non-serious' cuebid to limit your values.
Hand 2 has sixteen nice HCP, which is significant extras. Convey this by bidding 3NT.
Note I use the term 'nice' for some of these hands. Nice values are keycards: the four aces and the king of trump, also the queen of trump. Kings in suits partner has bid are useful as well. Other kings often contribute but with less certainty. The queen in a bid suit is often valuable but it will depend on partner's holding in the suit.
Principle of fast arrival
While not directly related to Serious 3NT, it is useful to have some tools that limit the responding hand. One is jumping to game on the second round:
1♠ - 2♣
2♠ - 4♠
Some believe this should show something specific ('picture bid'), while I think it should be a discouraging bid, called 'principle of fast arrival'. I suggest this:
• jumping to game denies any keycards;
• raising then bidding game next time suggests only one keycard.
The value of this agreement is that opener can avoid bidding RKC with a shapely hand such as:

if responder jumps to 4♠ over 2♠.
1♥ - 2♣
2♠ - 4♠: no keycards
Bidding four of the major the second time might be less clear, but if it is bid directly over something at the three-level (a control bid, or Serious 3NT), it can be recognized to show one keycard:
1♥ - 2♣
2♠ - 3♠
3NT - 4♠: one keycard
Opener is again warned. With two or more keycards, responder keeps the ball rolling by cooperating, unless opener is non-serious (by bidding 4♣ or 4♦ for example in the above auction). In this case responder signs off if he lacks the overall values to suggest a slam.
Bidding three of the agreed major
This comes up if we agree the major at a low level:
1♠ - 2NT
3♦ - 3♠: what does this mean?
First of all, it denies a heart control. You might decide it should be a 'waiting bid', to see if opener is serious. Or it might be a cuebid in the trump suit! If you use this treatment, responder shows the ace or king of trump.
Non-Serious 3NT
Some like to reverse the meaning of 3NT, to show a hand that is NON-serious. This is a matter of preference, but I like the original serious concept. If I am serious, I save space by bidding 3NT, leaving partner room to control bid at the four-level.
If I am non-serious, I show what I have (by a four-level control bid) and leave the rest to partner.
Two full deals
Here are two full deal examples using Serious 3NT:

1♠ - 2♥
2♠ - 3♠
4♦ - 4♠
Responder's 3♠ sets a major as trump in a game forcing auction, so 3NT would be serious. Opener has a few extra HCP, but with mostly dubious values he is not serious so he cuebids 4♦ to show a diamond control, no club control and non-serious. Responder has an easy time signing off in game.

1♠ - 2♣
2♥ - 3♥
3♠ - 3NT
4NT - 5♣
5♦ - 6♥
3♠ shows a control (ace or king) in spades, and 3NT is serious. Responder shows greater interest because his values are working. This is all the encouragement that opener needs so he bids RKC, finding three keycards* and the trump queen opposite. The 6♥ bid denies any side kings so seven looks too iffy (requiring running both majors). Opener settles for six and passes 6♥.
* formally 5♣ shows zero or three keycards. Due to responder's Serious 3NT he is certain to have three keycards.
Conclusion
Serious 3NT is a good tool best reserved for serious partnerships (pun intended). It uses an otherwise idle bid in a way that allows one hand to limit itself in major suit slam auctions. Before using it you must discuss when it applies and practice it.
Practice your bidding on a new topic before using it at the table.
Practice these Bidding Topics with your partner using uBid!

Click Here







9Last Train
Introduction
Last Train is a convention that was both devised and cleverly named by my regular partner, Jeff Meckstroth. He invented it in a slam auction where we had agreed hearts. I bid 4♣, and he didn't want to sign off in 4♥ nor did he want to take over with Roman Keycard Blackwood (RKC), so he bid 4♦. Our agreement was that 4♦ was a cuebid and on this particular deal he had no diamond control.
I saw his dummy and asked what 4♦ meant. He said "it's the Last Train. The Last Train to Clarksville". The latter of course is a song by the Monkees.
I immediately liked the idea and it became part of our system. Let's look at an example auction where Last Train might apply:

1. Jacoby 2NT, 4+ trumps and game forcing
2. some extra values, no short suit
3. cuebid, some control in clubs, has some slam interest
I think it is more important for opener to be able to bid 4♦ to show interest but nothing specific, i.e. Last Train, than to show or deny a diamond control. However, this is not clear-cut and for this reason not every pair chooses to play Last Train.
Last Train defined
I will suggest various uses for this convention in this chapter. For now, it is used only in the following situation:
A major suit is firmly agreed in a game forcing auction. Last Train becomes the bid just below 4 of our major - 4♥ if we have agreed spades, 4♦ if we have agreed hearts. Last Train says "I have too much to sign off but not enough to bid Blackwood (or RKC)".
Last Train should only apply in a situation where we have firmly established a trump suit. Otherwise, we are presumably bidding naturally. Let's take a look at some situations where Last Train could be particularly useful.
1. We establish a major suit as trump in a preempted auction
For clarity, opponents' bids are shown in brackets.
1♠ - (3♦) - 4♦* - (Pass)
?
* game forcing spade raise
- 4♥: Last Train, extras, an 'inbetween hand' if you will
- 4♠: weaker hand, signoff attempt
- 4NT: good hand, RKC
Note that the 'hand quality' message is much more likely to be helpful than just whether or not opener has a heart control.
2. Control in the 'Last Train suit' has already been shown or denied
1♠ - 2NT(1)
3♥(2)
1. Jacoby 2NT
2. singleton or void in hearts
1♥ - 2NT
3♣(1) - 3♥(2)
(1) singleton or void in clubs
(2) waiting, no control in diamonds (bypassing a 3♦ cuebid)
In the first auction, opener shows a heart control with the 3♥ bid. In the second auction, responder denies a diamond control so opener must sign off right now if he lacks a diamond control also. Thus, any other bid clarifies that opener has a diamond control. I explain why in this next section.
What you bypass you deny
While not crucial, per se, to the use of Last Train, it is still useful to have some basic understandings. I prefer to use an approach to cuebidding, when a major is agreed, that I call "what you bypass you deny".
1♥ - 2NT(1)
3♣(2) - 3♥(3)
1. Jacoby 2NT
2. singleton or void in clubs
3. bypassing a 3♦ cuebid denies a first or second round diamond control
First round control would be the ace or perhaps a void; second round control would be the king or a singleton.
If you don't like 'what you bypass you deny' then of course your inferences will be different from those I suggest in this topic.
What sort of hand uses Last Train?
This is a matter of hand evaluation and judgment. Suppose this is the auction so far:
1♥ - 2♦(1)
2♥ - 3♥(2)
3♠ - 4♣
?
1. Two over one Game Force
2. establishing hearts as trump
There are actually a number of 'system questions' that it helps to answer to have a firm foundation for this discussion. Among these questions might be:
1. Does the 2♥ rebid show at least 6 hearts? Or might it be bid as a waiting bid with only 5 hearts?
2. Does the 3♥ raise promise extra values? Or might it be bid with a minimum 2 over 1 response?
3. Do the cuebids of 3♠ and 4♣ show extra values, or are they 'obligatory' because we are still below game?
Players have strong ideas on these subjects so I can't give you an absolute right or wrong. I will give my preferences below; substitute your partnership's own:
1. 2♥ shows at least 6 hearts. Default into 2NT with no other good bid.
2. The 3♥ raise shows at least a slam-useful minimum, i.e. you can't be both minimum and have 'soft values' (not keycards). This means I suggest playing what is called Principle of Fast Arrival, where a jump to 4♥ over 2♥ would show a weak (for slam purposes) 2 over 1 response.
3. I think with a bad hand opener should bid 4♥ over 3♥, so his cuebid of 3♠ should show reasonable slam values. Responder has already said his hand is OK so it seems reasonable that he should cuebid a control in clubs if he has one.
I'll give some example hands that might use the above auction and give my thoughts:

With opener 1, I would rebid 2NT, not 2♥, over 2♦.
With opener 2, I would bid 4♥ over the 3♥ raise, having a minimum with terrible trump and only 1 keycard.
With opener 3, I would cuebid 3♠ over 3♥. I have only 11 High Card Points (HCP), but I have 2 keycards + trump queen. Other good features: the queen in partner's diamond suit, and a side suit singleton.
Here are some possible responder hands:

With responder 1, over the 2♥ rebid I would jump to 4♥, 'Principle of Fast Arrival', to discourage. If opener's hand is sufficiently strong he can bid again.
With responder 2, I would bid 3♥. I have only 12 HCP but all values look potentially useful: a goodish 5-card suit, 2 keycards + trump queen. Imagine opener with this hand: ♠ x ♥ A K x x x x ♦ K x x ♣ x x x, and slam is very good. You might not get there but it gives you the idea that you shouldn't be signing off yet.
Responder 3 has two weak hearts, and should bid 2NT even if 2♥ does promise 6 trump. You can raise hearts later but for now you might be better off in 3NT or in a diamond slam.
Some specific hand evaluation considerations
As you can see it can be difficult just to use 'points' to evaluate a hand for slam purposes. Typically there are 3 types of slams:
1. Power slam. These are the ones with about 33 combined points, the classic number to bid a slam. I.e., you have a lot of combined power.
Typically, bidding slams on point count works best when both hands are balanced.

Here we have 15 opposite 18, or 33 HCP. Both hands are completely flat so point count bidding should work pretty well. In practice the hands fit OK, with 4 heart tricks and 3 or 4 diamond tricks. You will make slam if you get 4 diamond tricks, or 3 + the club finesse.
We are talking about major suit fits, and if both hands are flat, then point count will be useful on these hands as well:

This time 6♥ is pretty good. You have 15 opposite 17 and 1 for the doubleton spade = 18 for 33 points. 6♥ is much better than 6NT as you can ruff a spade in dummy.
2. Trick source slams. This implies a long suit that can be run or established. It is this type of slam that is more common in 2 over 1 auctions.

This time 6♠ (or 6♦) are just cold, barring an unlikely ruff. 6♠ is the best slam as you would expect with a 9-card fit. It is awkward to think in terms of points with a layout like this; better to think in terms of tricks you expect to take. The auction might go:
1♠ - 2♦
2♠(1) - 4♣(2)
4NT - 5♥
6♠
(1) 6+ spades
(2) splinter
Opener has strong trump, a fitting top diamond honor, and control of both offsuits so he takes over with RKC.
3. Ruffing slams. These are made by taking a lot of extra trump tricks. Good fit + useful side suit shortness = possible ruffing slam:

1♠ - 4♥(1)
4NT - 5♠(2)
7♠
(1) splinter
(2) 2 keycards + trump queen
Opener can visualize taking 6 trump tricks, A AK A, for 10 tricks, and ruffing all 3 hearts in dummy for 13 winners. Responder has the queen of trump which reduces most risk of an overruff in hearts.
As we can see 'points' really didn't enter into it too much in the trick source slams or ruffing slams, it was more a question of seeing the prospect of 12 or 13 winners.
So how does Last Train help us? It is with inbetween hands, where we don't see slam for sure but we want to express interest.

1♠ - 2♦
2♠ - 4♣(1)
4♥(2) → 4♠
(1) splinter
(2) Last Train!
Opener has some extra values, but his hand isn't perfect: trumps are relatively weak and the ♥K isn't as useful as the trump king or ♦K would be. Responder is relieved to hear Last Train because he has stretched to bid as much as he has so far. He happily signs off and the dangerous 5-level is avoided.
One other point: using 'what you bypass, you deny', opener has denied the ace or king in diamonds, which makes responder's hand weaker still. Whether opener can bid 4♦ with a singleton or void is a matter of partnership agreement; I say not because diamonds are responder's primary suit and a singleton is usually not as useful as the king would be.
Let's change the hand to:

1♠ - 2♦
2♠ - 4♣
4♠
This time responder has a maximum splinter, and would bid 4NT if opener makes any type of encouraging bid (4♦, or 4♥ Last Train). 5♠ is dangerously high and it is good to stop.
Note: most play that splinter bids show a limited value range, I'd say about 11-14 HCP here. This helps partner evaluate. With stronger hands, choose another route.
Some Last Train specifics
Last Train shows, as I said previously, something extra but not enough to take over. Clearly your hand is not good enough to visualize slam if partner has enough keycards (a number that would be reasonable for him to have on the auction to date). Assuming this, consider the following points in deciding if your hand is worth Last Train.
What values have I shown already? This is very important as partner should be taking over himself if your minimum-shown values are sufficient. Let's try this one as a quiz.
Quiz
How do you like your hand on the following bidding:
1♠ - 2♣(1)
2NT(2) - 3♠(3)
?
(1) game forcing, either balanced or clubs
(2) 12-14 HCP, 5332
(3) slam try, fit in spades

Hand 1 is minimum and nothing special. Partner has not promised a club suit and you have only 12 HCP with some soft values. Bid 4♠. Partner will bid again if a hand like this is enough for slam.
Hand 2 has 13 HCP. The ♦K is much better than the queen but your hand is not maximum. I would consider the hand 'medium' and cuebid 4♦ for now.
Hand 3 has 14 HCP, with well-placed values. If I trust partner's bidding I would push past game on my own.
What I am speaking about with the above hands, is the 'box' you put your hand in, mentally, for the auction to date. You don't necessarily bid Last Train just because you have an in-between hand, if some lower cuebid is available. For example, with opener 2 I would bid 4♦, not 4♥, since bidding 4♥ would deny a diamond control ('what you bypass you deny').
Last Train evaluation with less defined shape and value ranges
It is easier to evaluate when you have shown both a specific value range and shape, for example when you open 1NT. In auctions like this:
1♠ - 2♥
2♠ - 3♠
?
Opener can have a wide range of shape and values. The good news is that many hands will be good enough to bid RKC at some point. With weaker hands, consider if you have any of these features:
• Extra trump length. If 2♠ showed 6+, then a 7th trump.
• Good trump. 2 of the top 3 trump would be good trump. Having good internal quality, as with AJ108xx, is a plus as well.
• Extra HCP. If 11 with a 6-card suit is a minimum, having 13 or 14 would usually put you in the 'medium' category.
• Useful distribution. Having a singleton or especially a void in an unbid suit could help produce a 'magic fit' in a 'trick source slam'.
• Good keycards. Partner always can use trump honors and aces.
• King, or perhaps queen, in partner's long suit.
Quiz
How would you rate your hand in the auction below? What bid would you make?
1♠ - 2♥
2♠* - 3♠
?
*6+ spades

Opener 1 has 13 HCP, most of which looks decent but not great. I would term this a medium hand. Cuebid 4♣.
Opener 2 has 11 HCP, poor shape and some dubious values. I would bid 4♠.
Opener 3 is a pretty useful looking hand, with Kx of a known 5+ card suit, good trump, a side suit singleton and control of both unbid suits. It is hardly a maximum but you are quite interested.
Opener 4 should bid RKC, 4NT. If partner has 3 aces bid 7. If he has 2, bid 6♠. They might be able to beat it with a club lead if partner is missing a major suit ace and has sufficiently weak holdings in both minors, but even if this is the layout they won't necessarily lead a club.
Last Train later in the auction
Most of the time there will be a cuebid or two before either player can choose to bid Last Train (i.e. without bypassing a control that could be cuebid). In this case whoever can either bid Last Train or sign off has to evaluate his hand to date.
In many of these auctions the evaluation will be a subtle question, and the quality of a possible slam will be unclear. Many of the slams I have avoided after someone used Last Train have been 'take it or leave it' propositions.
There is always going to be some degree of luck regarding how well the hands fit. If we continue the bidding with Opener 3:

1♠ - 2♥
2♠ - 3♠
4♣ - 4♦
?
This is a close decision whether to bid Last Train, planning to pass if responder signs off, and bidding RKC. You're hoping partner has one of these hands:

NOT one of these hands:

One problem with the hand is you are missing 4 keycards so you need at least 3 to want to be in slam. You won't get to every reasonable slam by bidding Last Train and passing a 4♠ sign-off, but you will avoid the dangerous 5-level opposite hands like hands 4 thru 6 above.
With two of the responder hands, hand 1 and certainly hand 3, responder should bid RKC over your 4♥ Last Train. Bottom line: bidding Last Train should get you to the best spot opposite 5 of the 6 responding hands.
Other situations for Last Train
There are other situations for the use of Last Train, especially when trying for game in a major.
1♠ - 2♠
3♦ - 3♥
Opener is trying for game with his 3♦ bid. Responder should bid game with a good hand and sign off in 3♠ with a bad hand.
With an in-between hand, it is natural to bid 3♥, the 'Last Train' to 3♠ that lets opener bid game if he has a sound game try.
It should be clear that since 3♥ is the only 'in-between bid' available, it can't say anything about Hearts. It is truly a Last Train bid just as 4♥ would be if we were trying for a slam in spades.
If the auction instead was:
1♠ - 2♠
3♣ - 3♦ or 3♥
Both bids are Last Train type bids, so they can suggest something in the bid suit. This might help opener evaluate his hand in a close case (it is better to have length instead of shortness in responder's Last Train suit).
Quiz
What would you bid on this auction? Suppose that your agreement is that a raise to 2♠ shows about 7 to 10 support points.
1♠ - 2♠
3♦ - ?

Responder 1 is minimum with a bad diamond holding (better to have soft values in a suit partner is long in). Sign off in 3♠.
Responder 2 is an 'in-between' hand: the spade and diamond values are excellent, the ♥K is questionable, and the hand has 8 HCP, in the middle. Bid 3♥, Last Train.
Responder 3 is a maximum, with excellent spade and diamond values and an extra trump. Bid 4♠.
Last Train in preempted auctions
Suppose the bidding goes like this:
1♠ - (2♦) - 4♠ - (5♦)
?
This is an auction where, on the face of it, we have no idea who can make what. The 4♠ bid is not strong and most would say if opener passes here that is not forcing. So, opener's choices are to pass, double for penalty, compete to 5♠, or to bid 5♥. Once again, 5♥ should be 'Last Train', showing interest in slam.
This type of Last Train bid is awkward because responder has to decide to bid or not bid a slam without using RKC, always a dangerous thing. I think to be practical, opener should be looking for something he could reasonably expect, i.e. 2 useful cards:

I would bid 5♥ on the above auction, Last Train, confident that partner will bid slam if he has 2 aces and not otherwise. Of course this is worth discussing in advance.
Conclusion
Last Train is a useful convention, especially with an agreed major suit fit. It arises when we are out of room and have to decide whether to sign off or commit to a higher level. It is a useful bid to have in your arsenal but I would advise discussing when it applies first. It is also useful to bid some hands and see if your judgment matches that of your partner.
Practice your bidding on a new topic before using it at the table.
Practice these Bidding Topics with your partner using uBid!

Click Here















Eric Rodwell's Bidding Topics
Copyright © Eric Rodwell 2017
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced in any form without the written permission of the publisher, Baron Barclay Bridge Supply.
Baron Barclay Bridge Supply
3600 Chamberlain Lane, Suite 206
Louisville. KY 40241
502-426-0410
www.baronbarclay.com
ISBN: 978-1-944201-04-3
Cover design by Morgan Hatfield
Text design and composition by John Reinhardt Book Design



