




 
 
 
 
 
 
'Black Lies Matter'















 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Copyright
2016 
Taleeb
Starkes
All rights reserved.














 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This book may contain copyrighted
material in which the copyright owner may not have specifically authorized
usage. Such usage is permitted under the "Fair Use" provisions located in the
Copyright Act of 1976, which permits usage "for purposes such as criticism,
comment, news reporting, teaching (including multiple copies for classroom
use), scholarship, or research."
The news headlines referenced throughout
this book are actual, unadulterated, headlines. In many instances, my comments
are noted underneath the headlines to emphasize a point. 














 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Eternal
gratitude to Claire "The Saint" Hawksley. I threw a Hail Mary pass and
you leaped higher than anyone else to catch it...
You're truly a godsend.











Foreword 
***Trigger
Warning***
 
 
WHY TALEEB? 
 
    In 2011, when Ann Coulter told Sean
Hannity, "Our blacks are so much better than their blacks," the
mainstream media went nuts. Whoopi Goldberg said, "I didn't know we were
anybody's blacks," and even right wing news sources were informing Ann that
slavery had been abolished. They were all being willfully ignorant because we
are so desperate for racist villains, we'll lynch anyone who talks openly about
race. Ann was clearly referring to Herman Cain, and everyone ignored the second
half of her quote where she added, "You have fought against probably your
family, probably your neighbors. . . that's why we have very impressive
blacks." She was speaking
about African-American people of color (or whatever the term is this week) who
have the courage to be truthful and blunt no matter how uncomfortable it makes
their fellow blacks feel. 
 
    Half a century ago, we had the Freedom
Riders daring to go town-to-town in the South comingling with blacks in areas
where such actions were verboten. Today, the courageous ones are on the right.
When Ann says "our" she's talking about the likes of Thomas Sowell, Deroy Murdock, Jason Riley, and Allen West. These black men
brave family gatherings such as Thanksgiving and confront their family members
with counterintuitive thoughts like, "welfare is bad for the black family"
and "legal guns make bad neighborhoods safer." This is not how liberals
want blacks to behave. Blacks are meant to push for social programs and vote
Democrat even though the Dems have caused them nothing but trouble since the
Civil Rights Act. Liberals demand blacks vote for gay marriage even if that
contradicts their religious beliefs. If ex-KKK member David Duke likes Trump,
we have to gasp in horror but if ex-KKK member and Democrat Robert Byrd endorses Hillary and Obama, we're meant to ignore it.
Liberals push Planned Parenthood on the hood even though abortions have killed
more blacks than, well, anything. The left treats blacks like whimpering pets
they can trot out in commercials to gain more votes, taxes, and power. The
right wants to treat them as adults.
 
    When I think of "our blacks," I cast
a wider net than Ann. "Our" refers to those of us brave enough to
champion free speech and tell it like it is no matter how much it hurts. We
speak on the record the way we all talk in bars. "Our" is the people in
the trenches, willing to make the tough decisions no matter how unpopular it
makes them. The aforementioned conservative black intellectuals are great, but
they're also nerds. I'm a fan of conservative blacks who possess an urban
veneer. I'm talking about the likes of Sonnie Johnson and yes, Taleeb Starkes.
Thomas Sowell lives in a beautiful mansion in sunny California. Starkes lives
in a modest row home in Philly. Where many of the conservative blacks Ann was
referring to make their living pontificating about a history they left behind,
Taleeb is in it. His full-time job is working with troubled teens who don't fit into the system. They challenge him to fist
fights and he has to constantly juggle not losing face with not losing his job.
I'm more apt to listen to Taleeb's views on poor, black teenagers or as the
media call them "youths." It's easy to come up with solutions for the
worst of the worst sitting at your desk, but Taleeb's answer is shocking. "Remove
the weeds from the garden," he says of the irreparable few, "Separate
the liabilities from the assets." While many can be whipped into shape and
encouraged to assimilate, there are plenty who are "disrespected"
because they haven't earned respect. 
 
    This is the kind of voice needed moving
forward in America, someone who's actually been there. When we listen to the people
in the trenches such as Starkes, we all prosper. He's rough around the edges
and so blatantly honest, it makes most of us uncomfortable. He's not an
academic and doesn't use pretentious verbiage. Moreover, his books explain what
is really going on in America in a language that the people most affected by it
can understand. In that sense, there is no voice more relevant than Taleeb's.
These are not hypothetical scenarios. This is the truth. 
 
Gavin McInnes
Co-Founder, VICE Media
Founder, StreetCarnage.com
Host, The Gavin McInnes Show














 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
***
"If you want truth to go round the world you
must hire an express train to pull it; but if you want a lie to go round the
world, it will fly; it is as light as a feather, and a breath will carry it. It
is well said in the old Proverb, 'A lie will go round the world while truth is pulling its boots on.'"  
- Charles Haddon Spurgeon 














 
Table of Contents

 
Foreword
The Race Grievance Industry
#BlackLivesMatter
Hypocritical not
Hippocratic Oath
Fifty Shades of Gray...
Freddie Gray
The Congressional Black
Caucus
#BlueLivesMatter
#AllLivesMatter
Land of the Free, Home of the
Offended

 









The Race
Grievance Industry
"White America is a syndicate arrayed to protect its
exclusive power to dominate and control our bodies. Sometimes this power is
direct (lynching), and sometimes it is insidious (redlining)."
- Ta-Nehisi Coates
  Have you noticed
the unchanged pattern of outrage that manifests from the black community
whenever a black life is taken by a white person, especially a white
cop? Also, have you noticed that the same culture-vultures arrive without
hesitation to gluttonously feast during these incidents? They
figuratively pick apart the black body until it's a carcass — leaving nothing
for bacteria to decompose. These opportunists are arsonists dressed as first
responders, and their mission is to start racial infernos. In other words, they
racialize not harmonize.
Undoubtedly, you've noticed this trend — even if you're a bleeding-heart
liberal.
  One must understand
that these "call to action" reactions are not spontaneous; they're calculated
maneuvers promoted by an ever-present Race Grievance Industry — an industry whose only product is
victimhood... and it's manufactured without pause.
  The Race Grievance
Industry's sole purpose is to profit from racial strife under the guise of
pursuing racial peace. Its modus operandi is rooted in a lie that refuses to
die: blacks are permanent victims of racism and no amount of effort will
overcome it. The lie is rinsed and repeated in different ways, but the
message remains unchanged — America is a racist labyrinth specifically designed to stifle
black advancement. 
A century ago, Booker T. Washington noticed the Race
Grievance Industry's agenda:
"There is another class of coloured people who make a
business of keeping the troubles, the wrongs, and the hardships of the Negro
race before the public. Having learned that they are able to make a living out
of their troubles, they have grown into the settled habit of advertising their
wrongs — partly because they want sympathy and partly because it pays. Some of
these people do not want the Negro to lose his grievances, because they do not
want to lose their jobs." 
  On one hand, the R.G.I. will declare that
race is a social construct, but then use race to socially construct a paycheck.
Even when blacks are the majority population in cities such as Baltimore, and occupy key positions — mayor, city council, city
council president, police chief, fire chief, school superintendent, etc. — the Race Grievance Industry
still schemes to convince blacks that racism is America's default setting. Food for thought:
If a city that had a predominantly gay populace, gay mayor, gay city council
with a gay president, gay police chief, and gay fire chief, etc. blamed
homophobia for its problems, wouldn't that be laughable? By the way, I hope the
Gaystapo doesn't come after me for that analogy.
 

NY State
Senators wore Hoodies to the State Capital
RGI's Theory of
Exploitivity
  Regardless of
evidence, circumstances, or facts, the Race Grievance Industry's predictable scavenger hunt that
summarily ensues after any unfortunate white-on-black incident stems from what
I've termed, the "Theory of
Exploitivity."

  The Theory of
Exploitivity declares racism as the motive for any disagreeable white-on-black
incident. Racism is the end-all-be-all explanation: no fact finding
mission is necessary.  Moreover, this one-dimensional, race-based concept
is unapologetically absolute with no room for debate. In simple terms, the
Theory of Exploitivity translates as Black
Victim + White Culprit = Racism. And, due to the theory's
continued success for the RGI, so-called white Hispanics have now been included
as "White Culprits" and thus, eligible for exploitation. On the other hand,
so-called black Hispanics don't fit the agenda (for obvious pigment-related
reasons).
  This time-tested
equation of Black Victim + White Culprit =
Racism has proven to be just as vital to the Race Grievance
Industry as E=mc2 was to Albert Einstein. And just as Einstein's Theory of
Relativity has revolutionized science, the Theory of Exploitivity has
revolutionized the science of victimology, while generating untold wealth for
its practitioners. In fact, Al Sharpton, the Race Grievance Industry's most
visible board member, routinely has more corporate
sponsors for his events than colleges have for their bowl games.
Al
'Shakedown' Sharpton
  For years, "Shakedown" Sharpton — a former FBI
informant — has enriched himself by threatening companies with bad
publicity if they didn't financially support his agenda. Judging from his body
of work, he's the quintessential race-hustler. Robert F. Kennedy Jr., a
certified limousine-liberal and political elite mainstay, once served a
month-long stint in a Puerto Rican prison with Sharpton for trespassing. RFK
Jr. wrote these scathing comments about "Shakedown" Sharpton in his diary: 
 
"Al Sharpton has
done more damage to the black cause than George Wallace [segregationist Alabama
Governor]. He has suffocated the decent black leaders in New York," — "His
transparent venal blackmail and extortion schemes taint all black leadership."
 
Diary bombshell: RFK's slams against
Al Sharpton, Jesse Jackson and Gov. Cuomo
nypost.com
 
  Whenever "Shakedown" Al needs sponsors for
his annual National Action Network — the
civil rights group he founded and leads — conference, he licks his chops. The
New York Post reported:
 
"Anheuser-Busch
gave him six figures, Colgate-Palmolive shelled out $50,000
and Macy's and Pfizer have contributed thousands to the Rev. Al Sharpton's
charity. Almost 50 companies - including PepsiCo, General Motors, Wal-Mart,
FedEx, Continental Airlines, Johnson & Johnson and
Chase - and some labor unions sponsored Sharpton's National Action Network
annual conference in April. Terrified of negative publicity, fearful of a consumer
boycott or eager to make nice with the civil-rights activist, CEOs write
checks, critics say, to NAN and Sharpton - who brandishes the buying power of
African-American consumers. In some cases, they hire him as a consultant."
 
  His National Action
Network (NAN) collected $2 million more in 2014 than the prior year.
Additionally, his pay increased from $241,545 in 2013 to $412,644, including a
bonus of $64,400. Certainly, "Shakedown" Sharpton's
extortion racket is the envy of other RGI members.
REV. AL SOAKS UP BOYCOTT BUCKS
nypost.com
 
Al Sharpton gives himself 71% raise
thanks to de Blasio, Obama
nypost.com
 
  Sharpton yells "No
justice, no peace" while chasing the phantom menace of racism, but ignores
the actual menaces that terrorize the community. Therefore, when it comes to
resolving racial strife, I'd follow Caesar the Ape (from Planet of the Apes)
before following Al the Ape (from the Grievance Galaxy). After all, Caesar has
a proven record of trustworthiness, and his integrity isn't financially
incentivized.
  
Caesar > Al
RGI Members
  Although
the Race Grievance
Industry has no official website, headquarters, or telephone number, its
membership is an assorted bag of nuts from all races. They are everywhere yet
nowhere that's needed. It mainly consist of blacks whose self-appointed
profession is being black (pro-black for short), and these pro-blacks expect
every black person to bleed red, black, and green, instead of red, white, and
blue. Typically, the members are credentialed, influential, and successful, — reverends, college professors, politicians, entertainers, television & radio show hosts, athletes, et al. —
many living the American dream; yet dedicated to convincing black people that
the American dream is a white privilege unattainable for blacks. 
  President Obama, who has no ancestral ties to enslaved Africans
in America, occasionally contrives a pro-black image. However, the book
"Double Down: Game Change 2012" revealed, 
"Obama had little patience for the 'professional left,'
and vanishingly close to zero for what one of his senior African American
aides, Michael Strautmanis, referred to as 'professional blacks' (as opposed to
black professionals)."
 
Tavis Smiley and Cornell West are running examples of Obama
coldshouldering some pro-blacks while tolerating others such as "Shakedown"
Sharpton. Sharpton is still embraced because he gave Obama street credibility,
and refuses to publically criticize him. Overall, no one can stand the company
of pro-blacks for long, not even other pro-blacks.
  It shouldn't be
surprising that the Race Grievance Industry also has non-black members,
specifically white members. Behind the grievance
curtain are white liberals. Historically, white liberals have been the
puppeteers of black movements while the foot soldiers were mostly non-white. The
inconvenient truth is that most national black organizations need white support
to start and grow. In fact, the original founders of the NAACP (National
Association for the Advancement of Colored People) consisted of more whites
than blacks. Of the NAACP's "Founding 8," Ida B. Wells and W.E.B. Dubois were the only blacks. 

The NAACP's
Founding 8
 
  Having a white or
even white-looking person as ambassador of black causes is extremely beneficial
to the Race Grievance Industry. Simply
put, whites give black organizations credibility. Furthermore, having
white or white-looking people as generals spreading the RGI's generalized lies
makes general consumption easier. Presently, the head of the Congressional
Black Caucus is G.W.
Butterfield, a man who could easily pass as white but is black by a
technicality (the "one-drop rule''). Shaun King, a Black Lives Matter
aficionado who came to fame during the Ferguson fiasco of 2014, has a Black
belt in social justice jiu-jitsu, but was exposed as a white guy passing as
black. After being outed as a poser, his dedication to racial
rabble-rousing has only intensified. Rachel
Dolezal, a white woman who self-identified as a black woman, was once head
of the NAACP's Spokane chapter; nothing could hold down that strong, black,
independent woman except the white woman's body that housed her. Currently,
she plans to write a book about people "caught
between boundary lines of race or culture or ethnicity." I wonder if her
book will also be white on the outside but black on the inside. 
  
CBC Leader, BLM Leader, NAACP Leader, New Black Panther Party Leader?
  White allies of the RGI beware. You are simply useful tools.
Even after denouncing your white privilege to embrace white-guilt, the
unchangeable fact remains... you're white! White inner-city teachers can attest
to the fact that being
white equals being perpetually conscious against doing or saying anything
that could be misinterpreted as "racist" — even though the teachers' worldview
and career commitment to minorities prove otherwise. 
Former media professor charged over 'siccing' muscle on student journalist during Mizzou
protests says she was fired 'because she is white'
dailymail.co.uk

Last year,
she was fighting for black students. This year, she's fighting for unemployment
benefits
  The
Race Grievance Industry is the unofficial gatekeeper of black cultural identity,
and its members don't deviate from the governing
narrative
of victimization. Regarding race matters, the members' opinions echo those of
the collective; individual thought is shunned. The appearance of black racial
unity takes precedence over addressing black pathologies. During the Zimmerman
trial, a young and naive, newly sworn president of the NAACP's Norfolk,
Virginia chapter learned the rules of the echo chamber. He audaciously posted
on his private Facebook page that people should think logically and not
racially over the case:
"As I look at this George Zimmerman case ...
I wonder why is it that we are always willing to say someone who clearly had a
shaky past, was the victim.' 'Are we blinded about why Trayvon was at his dad's
house in the first place, and why he wasn't at home at the time he was shot?
Please think logically and not racially..."
  He
had no idea that by pressing 'enter' after the post, his time as NAACP
president would become pressed. The RGI's thought-police were immediately
summoned to muzzle this thought-fugitive. Local black officials called for his
resignation, including Norfolk City Councilman Paul Riddick, who
told WAVY-TV10, "The national [NAACP] office should come into this. It
would be an effort to silence this fellow. I don't know how recall process
works, but I think they should recall him. He obviously does not have the
maturity when to speak and when not to speak." The councilman added, "My
initial reaction, 'was that it wasn't true, that somebody had gone on his Facebook
and had planted this." The ordeal meant that the young 25-year-old NAACP
president had now been baptized by the Church of the Eternal Victim a.k.a the
Race Grievance Industry. 
'Think logically and not racially': Facebook message from NAACP chapter president about the
Zimmerman trial brings calls for his resignation
dailymail.co.uk

The post that almost cost him his NAACP post
RGI's
Official Political Party
  The democrat
party is the official party of the Race Grievance Industry, and it's due to the democrats'
overview of government as the savior. This belief perfectly suits the Race Grievance Industry's platform of
victimization. As long as the democrats continue to validate black victimhood,
the Race Grievance Industry will ensure that blacks remain on the democrat
plantation. Because of this quid pro quo union, the two entities fit like hands
in gloves. 

The democrat party and blacks fit tightly like O.J.'s gloves.
Ahem..."alleged" gloves
  It's
no coincidence that cities with predominately black population are usually democrat-controlled.
And it's no coincidence that violence, dysfunction, and poverty are endemic in
those places. Characteristically,
the democrat party
prefers handouts to a hand up, and that's the reason it doesn't teach people
how to fish; instead, it provides fish sticks. Yep, it's the party of fish
sticks. In fact, the city council of majority black and democrat ruled
Washington, D.C., unanimously approved a bill that included a proposal to pay
residents a stipend not to commit crimes. Councilmember Kenyan McDuffie, a
democrat who wrote the legislation, said it was part of a comprehensive
approach to reducing violent crime in the city, which experienced a fifty-four
percent increase in homicides in 2015. "I want to prevent violent crime —
particularly gun violence — by addressing the root causes and creating
opportunities for people, particularly those individuals who are at the highest
risks of offending," wrote McDuffie in a letter to constituents. According to the District's independent chief
financial officer, the program would cost taxpayers $4.9 million over four
years, including $460,000 a year in stipend payments. In short, this is merely
another democrat-sponsored bailout for thugs. Remember, D.C. already possesses
some of the strictest gun laws in the nation; yet, its 2015 homicide rate increased 54 percent
from 2014. Evidently, disarming law-abiding citizens hasn't deterred violent
criminality. Consequently, the democrats now want to take taxpayers' money to
pay criminals not to victimize taxpayers who can't defend themselves because of
D.C.'s gun ban. This democrat tactic is nothing short
of paying protection money to the mafia. Rewarding self-defeating
behavior is another democrat attribute that the Race Grievance Industry
absolutely adores. I now understand why democrat President Lyndon
Johnson (LBJ) prophesized,
"I'll have those niggers voting Democrat for the next 200 years." Not
only is his prophesy manifesting, but the
"two-hundred years" calculation might be short two hundred years. 
DC bill would pay people stipends not
to commit crimes
wtop.com
 
  For black democrat politicians, claims of racism
have become legitimized as weapons to wield, or crutches to lean on. This
option to invoke racism as the first and last line of defense enables black
democrat politicians to abuse their position and still maintain the support of
many black constituents — even when their political indiscretions or outright
crimes are undeniable. Black republican politicians aren't extended the same
luxury. For them, there's no supportive hammock from the black community, which
is why being a black republican politician is a brave but lonely endeavor.
Consider ex-Detroit mayor Kwame Kilpatrick, a democrat who — after pimping and
prostituting the mayor's office for millions of dollars — was convicted of
numerous crimes that severely affected "black" Detroit. Even so, his brother-in-law's statements
about Kilpatrick's case reflected a credible sentiment felt by Kilpatrick's
base. Here are a few quotes:
 
"You
talk about race, come on man, that's what it is. If Kwame Kilpatrick was white
and his name was Kent Masters Kensington, he would not be on trial." 
 
"It's
almost a travesty that they're even on trial. If you take a consensus of the
people in the city... people would reelect [Kilpatrick] today. He would win
right now, and there in my logic lies the travesty. I
mean, here it is, they're trying to get people to hate the guy that they
elected, and here it is 10 years later and the people still would vote him in
office and they still champion him on his work. Now, the affair and all that
other stuff, yeah, ok. But his body of work, you cannot question it." 
 
"What happened here in Detroit was a
bloodless coup. If you look at every situation overseas that the government
goes in and takes out the leader and puts in their own
public regime, it's the same thing that happened here in Detroit. They came in
and destroyed the education, destroyed the real estate, took out the head
person in charge and created chaos. And now they're restoring order the way
they see fit by bringing in the emergency manager."
Report: relative calls Kwame
Kilpatrick prosecution racist, Detroit brainwashed
mlive.com
 
 
Marion Barry, a former four-term black democrat mayor of Washington,
D.C., was affectionately nicknamed "Mayor for life." He
maintained this honorary title until his death, even though this "Chocolate
City" was drug-infested and America's murder capital for consecutive years during
most of his tenure. Furthermore, in 1990, the mayor was arrested and later
convicted on drug charges after the Federal Bureau of Investigation
videotaped him smoking crack cocaine in a hotel. He served six months in
a federal prison. And guess what was the alleged catalyst behind his
arrest. No, it wasn't his notorious drug habit; it was racism. In his
autobiography titled, "Mayor For Life," Marion
Barry explained: 
"[t]hey didn't want me creating all of
these opportunities for black folks. So when the FBI set me up at the Vista
[Hotel], they were really trying to kill me. . . . The war to reclaim Washington
for white people had been declared." 
 
After his release from prison, he was elected to the Council of the District
of Columbia in 1992, and then elected again as mayor in 1994, serving from 1995
to 1999. Overall, Barry served three tenures on the council of DC (1975-1979,
1993-1999, 2005 - until his death in 2014). Evidently, racism really held him
down.
In 'Mayor for Life,' D.C.'s Marion
Barry takes pride in himself but little blame for problems
washingtonpost.com
  The
race-card isn't only played by big city democrat mayors. The small,
racially-diverse town of Monticello, N.Y. — 29.3% black, 29.9% Hispanic, 34.6% white — had its
black democrat mayor slam it into play. It occurred after Mayor Gordon Jenkins
drove to the scene of a serious car accident to survey the damage, and
authorities noticed that he appeared to be intoxicated. They requested he take
a Breathalyzer test. The mayor refused. As a result, he was arrested and taken
to the police station. Upon arrival, the mayor shifted into full victim mode,
and it was all captured on more than three hours of video. As reported by CBS:
In
a video recorded at his own police headquarters, a man identified as Jenkins
was shown seated in a chair with one hand handcuffed to a wall. During the
first minute of the video, he is heard apparently talking to himself, using a
variety of obscene insults to describe the officers.
 
Soon
afterward, an officer comes in to interview him.
 
"You
know something, Davis?" he says to the officer in the video. "I'm the one that
hired you in this job, man. I mean, it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter about
that. But you know something? How the f**k you guys going to play the game?"
 
When
the officer later addresses him as "sir," Jenkins replies:
"Don't call me sir."
 
"Mayor? Is that better?" the officer says.
 
"Don't
call me mayor," Jenkins replies. "Call me n****r, because that's what I am when
I'm right here in handcuffs. But you know something? I don't give a f**k."
 
Altogether,
hours of video were released, showing Jenkins not happy about his arrest.
 
"What
are you going to do? Put me in jail five years? I'll
get out in five years, and I going to f***ing tell
you what the f**k you did to me, and I'm going to come
back to you," he tells an officer later.
 
The
mayor was charged with DWI, refusing a Breathalyzer, obstruction of justice and criminal mischief.
 
The
final charge came following an incident seen about an hour and 22 minutes into
the first of three video clips. Jenkins stands up,
pulls a clock off the wall, and hurls it out the door of the interrogation room
while demanding to know who is at the police station desk.
 
"Why
did you break the clock?" an officer says.
 
"Because I called you and you didn't
answer, and you f***ed...
these cuffs are too tight," Jenkins replies. When the officer returns to the
room, Jenkins accuses the officer of trying to "humiliate" him.
  Although
the trustee of Monticello called for the mayor to step down following this
incident, he maintained his position for almost two years before being removed
by a New York state court. "Unscrupulous conduct" was cited as the
court's reason for his forced resignation. Up until his removal, Gordon Jenkins
was Monticello's mayor for seven years. He, along with his base, believes
"something else" was the reason behind his forced exit. And of course, that
"something else" is racism.
Video Shows Monticello Mayor Cursing,
Breaking Clock After DWI Arrest
newyork.cbslocal.com
The
IUPAC
  What is the most abundant element in the
universe? According to science, the answer is hydrogen. However, in the
jaundiced eye of the Race Grievance Industry, the correct answer is racism. And
I'm certain that the Race Grievance Industry wants racism added to the Periodic
Table of Elements. Perhaps the International Union of Pure and Applied
Chemistry (IUPAC) should consider such request.
After all, the Race Grievance Industry has several studies that appear to
validate racism being the most abundant element in the universe (well, black people's
universe) and
whites are harnessing its power. 
Racism
Causes Premature Births
  All this time, I erroneously
assumed that poor prenatal care and/or other factors contributed to premature births.
Thankfully, this Race Grievance Industry endorsed study set things straight. As
reported by theroot.com:
"A pair of Emory
University studies released this year have connected the large share of
African-American children born before term with the biologically detectable
effects of stress created in women's bodies after decades of dealing with
American racism. As shocking as that itself may sound, the studies' findings
don't end there.
Racism, and its ability to increase
the odds that a pregnant mother will deliver her child early, can kill. There
is also evidence that racism can alter the capacity for a child to learn and
distorts lives in ways that can reproduce inequality, poverty
and long-term disadvantage, the studies found."
   
And for the cynics like me who doubt racism's impact, Elizabeth Corwin,
Dean of research at Emory University's Woodruff School of Nursing, wants us to
know, "Racism is an incredibly powerful force." Doubling
down on this assertion, Dr. Diane L. Rowley, a professor at the University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill's Gillings School of
Global Public Health, stated:
 "The research
was at first just suggesting, but it's
well-established today, something about living in the United States, something
beyond poverty or health insurance coverage and health care access is helping
to shape pregnancy outcomes," Rowley said. "And that something is racism."
 
 
According to the study, of the fifteen million babies born prematurely
each year in America, 16.8 percent are Black, 13.6 percent are Native
American, 11.7 percent are Latino, 10.5 percent are White, and 10.3 percent are
Asian.
 
Although most experts admit to not knowing all the reasons for early
labor, racism has once again become the defacto answer; explicitly, the organic
racism that Dr. Rowley believes is exclusively practiced by whites in America.
Someone needs to inform the thousands of pregnant women who illegally cross the
U.S border (with pending anchor babies) that it's best to remain in their
homeland. Why risk a premature birth because of America's inescapable racism
when they can remain in their country and only worry about the Zika virus.
Furthermore, since Asians lose the fewest babies, does that mean they're
practicing reverse-racism on whites? 
Racism Linked to Infant Mortality and
Learning Disabilities
theroot.com
[Article's
Quote: "A team of researchers closely tracked the pregnancies of more than 100 women
during the last three months of their pregnancies."]
Racism
Makes Black Men Age
 
There's a saying that black people revere: "Black don't crack."
And since we enthusiastically embrace flattering stereotypes, it's a no-brainer
that studies justifying our victimization mindset - even if such studies aren't
empirical, exhaustive, or logical — are embraced. The
following evidence of racism was uncovered by researchers from the medical
school of the University of Maryland:
"Black men who are
victims of racism literally age quicker than those who are not, a new study has
found. 
 
Their bodies speed up
the biological process of ageing which means they are at risk of getting
illnesses like diabetes or heart disease much younger than expected, it said.
 
It would explain why,
in certain parts of the world, black people are more prone to some diseases
than other races even allowing for age, income and other factors.
 
But the effects
particularly apply to black people who have their own 'internalised[sic]
bias' - in other words, they have negative views
themselves about black people.
 
Those who are more
'pro black' are less likely to experience a speeding up of the ageing process,
measured by DNA biomarkers of ageing on chromosomes in the body.
 
Researchers from the
medical school of the University of Maryland conducted interviews and medical
tests on 92 adult black men.
 
Their experiences
included racism at the hands of police, prospective employers, public officials and everyday staff in stores or restaurants.
 
A psychological questionnaire also determined if the men
themselves held any 'internal' bias against black people - in other words they
had negative views without necessarily realising
[sic] it."
 
Damn, once again, I was wrong. I erroneously attributed a tough aging
process to lifestyle choices, i.e. diet, exercise, sleep, and genetics. Silly
me, I need to start blaming racism more. It's a catch-all for black
pathologies, and I have a few vices that I'd love to blame on racism. I'll
probably have trouble convincing the wife though. Ironically, the study
concludes that pro-blacks are likely to live longer... in racist America.
Black men who experience racism age
quicker than those who don't - and could stress be to blame?
dailymail.co.uk
Blacks
Wait Longer to Cross Roads
   
Why did the chicken cross the road? I don't know, but if the following study
has merit, the chicken definitely crossed the road faster than a black person — unless, the black person was chasing the
chicken. 
"A new US study has found black people
have to wait 32 per cent longer at a crosswalk than white people before drivers
chose to yield. Researchers at the University of Arizona also found that black
pedestrians were twice as likely as white pedestrians to be passed by multiple vehicles. 'We were surprised at just how stark the
difference was,' said transportation planning expert, Professor Arlie Adkins.
The study involved 88 pedestrian trials and 173 drivers and was co-authored
Portland State University researchers Kimberly Kahn and Tara Goddard. 'We are
not saying drivers are overtly racist,' Kahn said, emphasising
[sic] that the study results are consistent with implicit biases that
individuals may hold beneath their awareness against certain groups of people."

Black
people have to wait 32% LONGER than white people to cross the road: Study reveals extent of racism among drivers
dailymail.co.uk
Racism
Makes Blacks Fat
 
Thanks to the following study, I finally understand why Oprah, even as a
self-made billionaire, still possesses so many gripes with America. As
reported by Daily Mail:
"There
are many reasons why an increasing number of people are classified as obese - and
now racism could be one of them. Frequent experiences of racism are associated
with a higher risk of obesity among African American women, a new study claims.
Scientists found that women who were more frequently victimised [sic] for their race, were more likely to be
obese. The study, by Slone Epidemiology Centre at Boston University, found the
relationship between racism and obesity was strongest among women who reported
consistently high experience of racism over a 12 year period. The research was
based on the Black Women's Health Study, which enrolled
59,000 African-American women in 1995 and has followed them since. While
rates of obesity in the U.S. have risen rapidly over the past few decades, the
greatest increases have been seen in African American women, half of whom are
currently classified as obese."
  And for the blacks who have
no weight issues, don't worry, I'm sure a grievance study is in the works for
you somewhere. Racism can now be created out of thin air ensuring that no
victim-minded person is left out.  
Is racism making you FAT? Victims of prejudice are at
greater risk of obesity
dailymail.co.uk
Mr.
Sandman is Racist?
  Who knew that Mr. Sandman —
the folkloric, bringer of good dreams — was racist? Yes, a study has shown
that he only brings the best dreams to white people. Dr. Lauren Hale, a
family and preventative medicine professor at Stony Brook University,
elaborated with NPR.org about a study from the Center for Disease
Control (CDC).
"Race and ethnicity also tend to
correlate with sleep. Nobody sleeps better than white people, according to the
CDC report; 54 percent of non-Hispanic blacks get sufficient
sleep, about 12 percent fewer than whites. "What is likely going on is
probably explained by demographic composition," Hale says. "Densely
populated neighborhoods might have more noise and light. African-Americans
compared to whites are more likely to live in those neighborhoods."
 
On
top of that, Hale says there are a lot of stressors
that nonwhite communities disproportionately feel that can influence sleep.
"There are concerns about racism, not being able to feed one's family,
relatives being incarcerated," she says. "One needs to feel safe. If
you don't have that internal feeling of security whether financial, physical or emotional, it will be harder to fall
asleep."
  Clearly, the study didn't include women in
the hood' whom I've categorized as "Quadruplers" (Baby Mamas whose lifestyles
are subsidized by taxpayers at least four different ways — housing, daycare,
food stamps, medical etc.); Quadruplers definitely get the best sleep. 
Nobody Sleeps Better Than White
People, Says Study
nymag.com
 #OscarsSoWhite 
 
The year is 1940, and the Twelfth Academy Awards is underway in
Los Angeles. Hattie
McDaniel has just won Best Supporting Actress for her role as Mammy in Gone with the Wind. She's the first black nominee/winner
and her acceptance speech was saturated with gratitude and humility:
"Academy of Motion Picture Arts and
Sciences, fellow members of the motion picture industry and honored guests:
This is one of the happiest moments of my life, and I want to thank each one of
you who had a part in selecting me for one of their awards, for your kindness.
It has made me feel very, very humble; and I shall always hold it as a beacon
for anything that I may be able to do in the future. I sincerely hope I shall
always be a credit to my race and to the motion picture industry. My heart is
too full to tell you just how I feel, and may I say thank you and God bless
you." 
  After her speech, she returned to a small
table located in the ballroom's rear isolated from her fellow nominees. The
seating arrangement wasn't her choice; it was mandated. Movie
executives had to beg just to get her into the awards ceremony, which was held
at a segregated 'No Blacks' hotel. McDaniel's was no stranger to
discrimination. Jim Crow laws had also prevented her from attending the world
premiere of Gone with the Wind in Atlanta. In spite of the
racial barriers, she persevered. Equal opportunity to exhibit
one's talent was the primary desire of black entertainers such as Hattie
McDaniel.
Oscar's First Black Winner Accepted Her Honor in a
Segregated 'No Blacks' Hotel in L.A.
hollywoodreporter.com
  Now, fast-forward to the year
2016, where humble expectations of equal opportunity have evolved into hardcore
demands for equal outcome. Several RGI members put on Oscar-worthy performances
— of victimhood — after no
blacks were nominated for Oscars in any major
categories. The outrage sparked the hashtag #OscarsSoWhite. Al "Shakedown" Sharpton told Variety that his
civil rights group would convene a series of meetings and conference calls with
African-American leaders and advocacy groups to create a campaign to encourage
people not to watch the awards show. Sharpton also said in a statement:
 
"Hollywood is like the
Rocky Mountains, the higher up you get the whiter it gets. And this year's
Academy Awards will be yet another Rocky Mountain Oscars. Yet again, deserving
black actors and directors were ignored by the Academy — which reinforces the
fact that there are few if any blacks with real power in Hollywood." 
  Sharpton also criticized the industry for having a
"fraudulent image of progressive and liberal politics
and policies." His
comments followed fellow card-carrying RGI member Spike Lee, who complained:
"How Is It Possible For The 2nd
Consecutive Year All 20 Contenders Under The Actor Category Are White? And
Let's Not Even Get Into The Other Branches. 40 White Actors In
2 Years And No Flava At All. We Can't Act?! WTF!!." 
  Actress Jada Pinkett-Smith, whose husband
Will Smith wasn't nominated for his leading role in "Concussion," stated that
she wouldn't even watch the Oscars. She promoted the boycott through a lengthy
Facebook video, saying
in part:
"Today is Martin Luther King's birthday, and I can't help but
ask the question: Is it time that people of color recognize how much power,
influence, that we have amassed, that we no longer need to ask to be invited
anywhere?" Begging for acknowledgement, or even asking, diminishes dignity
and diminishes power. And we are a dignified people, and we are powerful. So
let's let the Academy do them, with all grace and love. And let's do us,
differently."
  The united front was really just a front to
exploit white-guilt. After all, taking advantage of white-guilt has been an
immensely beneficial strategy for the Race Grievance Industry. White-guilt is the
gift that keeps giving. In fact, white-guilt was utilized to provoke Academy
members into voting for "Twelve Years a Slave" — an adaptation of the
1853 slave narrative memoir by Solomon Northup, a
free black man who was kidnapped and sold into slavery. The Los Angeles Times noticed the guilt-tripping:
The
film's distributor anchored its awards campaign around the line "It's
time," easily interpreted as an attempt to exhort members of the
Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences into voting for the movie because
it was the right thing to do.
 
The film's director, British filmmaker
Steve McQueen, said repeatedly during the long awards season that Hollywood
appeared more comfortable making Holocaust movies than slavery stories. And in
her opening monologue, Oscar host Ellen DeGeneres even joked that if McQueen's
telling of the enslavement of Solomon Northup didn't take the top Academy
Award, voters could be branded as "racists."
  Uh
oh... calling whites the dreaded "r-word," and I don't
mean "republican" (although they're treated interchangeably today) is a proven
game changer. Which is why two Oscar voters privately admitted that they voted
for the movie without actually seeing it. The two claimed that they felt
obligated to do so — given the film's social relevance. Twelve Years a Slave
ultimately won three Academy Awards in 2014: Best Picture (black
director), Best Supporting Actress for Lupita Nyong'o (black), and Best Adapted
Screenplay for John Ridley (black). Noteworthy is the fact that that the
president of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences is black. The
Academy has recently promised more diversity.
Two Oscar Voters Picked '12 Years A
Slave' Without Watching It
huffingtonpost.com
 
"It's about opportunity to act, not awards," said actor Jaime
Fox, who in 2005 won a 'Best Actor' Oscar for his role in
"Ray." I wholeheartedly agree with that notion. Additionally,
instead of griping about the wrongs in Hollyweird, including the lack of black
men playing leading roles, the Race Grievance Industry should focus on the lack
of black men playing leading roles in black single-parent homes. Nevermind...
that would break its covenant with the democrat party; black single-parent
homes are a vital voting bloc.
  Despite the existence of countless black-specific award shows and
film platforms — NAACP Image awards, BET awards, American Black Film Festival,
Pan-African Film Festival, San
Francisco Black Film Festival, Hollywood Black Film Festival, Black Harvest International Film festival, African Diaspora International
Film Festival, New York African Film Festival, BlackStar Film Festival etc. —  the Race Grievance Industry still wants diversity to lean one way. Diversity is one of the seemingly
agreeable buzzwords that the RGI effortlessly tosses
around to find favor. But let's be clear, diversity essentially means "less
white." They want white events diversified while black events remain black. In
fact, the RGI desires every white-dominated
platform to resemble the National Basketball Association's 2016 All-Star game, which
featured only one white guy out of the selected twenty-six players. Actually,
he was a "white-Hispanic" and only got the All-Star nod as a replacement for an
injured black guy. So, should the NBA All-Star game have more diversity for
diversity's sake, or remain merit-based? I'll submit that question at the next
NAACP awards show.
Heartless Racists
 
After complaining to his mother about sleeping difficulties and chest
pains, fifteen-year-old Anthony Stokes was rushed to the hospital. The diagnosis was dire — dilated cardiomyopathy, an enlarged
heart that's too weak to pump blood efficiently. A heart transplant was
desperately needed; without one, doctors estimated he'd have less than a year
to live. Stokes, who was wearing a court-ordered ankle monitoring bracelet
during the diagnosis, later received even worse news; the hospital refused to
place him on its heart transplant waiting list. Ultimately,
this decision was a death sentence. 
  The teenager's family immediately suspected
racism was the motive; however, the hospital cited Anthony's "history of
non-compliance" in its letter to the family. The letter stated, "Anthony
is currently not a transplant candidate due to having a history of
noncompliance, which is one of our center's contraindications to listing for
heart transplant." Dr. Ryan Davies, a cardiothoracic surgeon at the
Alfred I. DuPont Hospital for Children — and not involved with this case —
explained to CNN: "Assessing compliance for potential transplant
recipients is important because if a patient doesn't strictly take all required
medicines as directed, he or she could die within weeks of leaving the
hospital." Dr. David Weill,
medical director of Stanford University's Lung and Heart-Lung Transplant
Program, also expressed to CNN that it's normal for patients to be rejected
from organ transplant lists because of noncompliance — in other words, they are
perceived as people who won't follow instructions about taking medications or
keeping medical appointments. Arthur Caplan, head of the division of medical
ethics at NYU Langone Medical Center, noted to CNN
that patients have to adhere to a lifelong regimen after receiving an organ
transplant — showing up at medical appointments, taking medications, monitoring
changes in health — and teenagers in general don't have a good track record of
following orders. Regardless, the family remained convinced that Anthony's
denial wasn't due to his "history of noncompliance." A spokesperson for
the family said a doctor told them that Anthony's low grades and time spent in
juvenile detention factored into that assessment. "It just seemed they
decided he's a troublemaker, and that's not true," Anthony's mom
told The Atlanta Journal-Constitution.
  With accusations of stereotyping, and racism,
this story quickly moved onto the mainstream media's radar, and that's when the
local RGI affiliate was ready to make its national debut. The president of
Georgia's Southern Christian Leadership Conference chapter said Anthony was
judged based on "tattoos and an ankle bracelet" from a "juvenile
agency," and was discriminated against "because he was poor,
black and had trouble with the law." Those keywords put the collective
black outrage in motion, and then media scrutiny mounted against the hospital.
Within a week, the hospital — without explanation — reversed its decision; the
teenager was placed onto the list. Not only was he placed onto the list, he was
prioritized and moved to the front of the line. Although doctors initially informed
Anthony that he'd likely receive a new heart in about three to four months
(according to a family friend), surgery was successfully completed after just
seven days from his placement on the list. A family
friend attributed the story-book outcome to "the handiwork of God and
the media pressure." Unsurprisingly, the true catalyst for the
decision reversal didn't receive any credit... it never does. So, on the
family's behalf, and from the kindness of my healthy heart, the race-card is being
publicly thanked.
 
Teen put on heart transplant list
after earlier denial
cnn.com
 
'Noncompliance' bars 15-year-old
Atlanta boy from heart transplant list
nydailynews.com
  With a new heart and renewed lease on life,
fifteen-year-old Anthony was set to create a future that contrasted his trouble
past. "So I can live a second chance. Get a second chance and do things I
want to do," he told
the local media. The heart transplant would
help straighten out his life. Indeed,
Anthony utilized the new heart and second chance at life to do the things he
wanted to do. However, two years later, at the age of seventeen, Anthony was
killed while doing the things he wanted to do. Unfortunately, those "things"
included carjacking, home invasion, armed robbery and other felonious
activities. Apparently, old habits die hard, and those habits ensured that
Anthony wouldn't get a third chance at life. As reported by nydailynews.com:
 
Stokes,
of Decatur, allegedly carjacked a Honda, then burst into a Roswell home and
shot at an elderly woman as he tried to rob her, WSB-TV reported. The woman was not hit.
 
"A
lady said a person kicked in the door to break into the house. She was inside
the living room and saw the suspect, who was wearing a mask," Lisa Holland, of
the Roswell Police Department, told the news station.
Stokes
then took off at a high speed as cops chased him down the highway. He smashed
into a 33-year-old pedestrian before losing control and plowing into a pole.
 
"He did a fishtail spin going
around to the right and hit a pedestrian. I saw a white shirt fly up in the
air," witness Claudia Kuklis told WSB.

 
Police had to cut him from the mangled,
carjacked vehicle
  The
seventeen-year-old later died at the hospital with a heart that was still
practically under warranty. I can't confirm if the hospital issued an "I
told you so" or "Apology Accepted" statement to the RGI and media.
But, I am certain that the RGI attributes Anthony's cause of death to P.T.S.D.
(Post Traumatic Slave Disorder) and not career-criminal disorder.
Heart transplant recipient Anthony
Stokes dies in police chase, crash
wsbtv.com
 
Troubled Ga. teen who received
controversial heart transplant dead after crime spree ends in fatal wreck: cops 
nydailynews.com
 
 
I know a guy who would've definitely put that
heart to good use. 
Oprah's
Cure for Racism
  The
Race Grievance Industry is heavily invested in agitprop because it needs blacks
to believe that racism is metastasizing uncontrollably across
America. Then, it'll promote (RGI) remedies. For example, Oprah Winfrey —
the former undisputed queen of daytime talk, now undisputed queen of the Race
Grievance Industry — has created her own remedy for racism.
 
Always the masterful marketer, she deliberately makes
racially accusatory comments to boost promotion for her grievance movies. Once,
she took issue with the manner that President Obama is criticized. During
a BBC interview, she opined:
"There's a level of disrespect for the
office that occurs. And that occurs in some cases and
maybe even many cases because he's African American. There's no
question about that and it's the kind of thing nobody ever says but everybody's
thinking it." 
Oprah Winfrey: The Butler, racism and
Obama
bbc.com
  Interestingly, she failed to
consider that President Obama enthusiastically campaigned (twice) to be
subjected to the so-called "level of disrespect" that
accompanies the office, and was twice successful.  Moreover, she
neglected to mention how America's stifling racism didn't prevent her from
becoming a media mogul, or stop the trailblazing successes of other blacks such
as Dr. Condi Rice, Robert "Bob" Johnson, Dr. Ben Carson, et
al.  Like Oprah, these individuals came from humble beginnings and
stand as testaments to America's exceptionalism. Anyone notice that Oprah
never defended Dr. Ben Carson or Dr. Condi Rice whenever they were
"disrespected" by racists — specifically black racists? I digress.
 
Oprah then proceeded to identify the ultimate source of the racism, and
even candidly offered a cure — albeit an ominous cure: 
"There are still generations of
people, older people, who were born and bred and marinated in it, in that
prejudice and racism, and they just have to die."
  In
other words, old whites are the problem. They're inherently racist, which
in turn makes them incapable of judging people by content of
character.  Thus, they must die!
  Introducing OprahCare: the "Final Solution" for racism.  Not
only does OprahCare end racism, it silences Obama's critics — essentially, killing
two racist birds with one righteous stone. Though, an obvious flaw with
OprahCare is that it wants death for those who criticize Obama because of his
race, yet, excuses those who won't criticize him because of his race. The
OprahCare proponents refer to this contradiction as "payback." (Learn more about "payback" in the #BlackLivesMatter
chapter)
 
Unlike ObamaCare, where the public was assured that we could keep our doctor
if we liked our doctor, OprahCare actually allows whites to keep their racist
views if they like their racist views. The only stipulation is that they
will "have to die" to keep them. Whites such as Donald
Trump and Bill O'Reilly are immediate OprahCare enrollees who come to mind. I
expect to see them on OprahCare brochures. On the other hand, white friends of
the Grievance Diva such as Dr. Phil would receive waivers.
 
Although OprahCare may appear to target older white racists, its aim is
broader. The other potential recipients of OprahCare are any white
non-Democrats - definitely Republicans, Conservatives, Tea Partiers, and
Libertarians.  Even white-Hispanics, such as George Zimmerman, are
ideal for OprahCare.  Granted, Zimmerman claimed to have voted for
Obama (which is waiver-worthy), but he also killed Trayvon Martin, whom Oprah
considered this generation's Emmett Till.
Oprah: Trayvon Martin The 'Same Thing' As Emmett Till (VIDEO)
huffingtonpost.com
 
Whites in other countries also qualify for OprahCare.  For
instance, the Swiss saleswoman who allegedly treated Oprah like a
commoner when she inquired about a $38,000 Tom Ford handbag isn't exempt.
Oprah Winfrey's account of being
racially profiled at Swiss boutique is 'not true,' shop clerk says
nydailynews.com
 [Article's Quote: An unidentified
Italian woman says, 'I don't know why someone as great as her would cannibalize
me on TV' over a $38,000 Tom Ford handbag flap that has Switzerland in an
uproar.]
 
White liberals are exempt from OprahCare as long as they continue to
openly display white guilt.  Naturally,
blacks are exempt, despite a poll that concluded: "[t]hirty-seven percent (37%) of American Adults think most
black Americans are racist," while "just 15% consider most
white Americans racist, while 18% say the same of most Hispanic Americans." Even
so, OprahCare asserts that only whites can be racist, which
apparently is acceptable if they're only being racist towards black
conservatives. The Race Grievance Industry's conventional wisdom interprets
broad generalizations of blacks as "racist," but justifies blacks' broad
generalizations of others as "observations."
More Americans View Blacks
As Racist Than Whites, Hispanics
rasmussenreports.com
 
Signing up for OprahCare isn't an option for whites; the Grievance Diva
has already identified the racists, and their OprahCare policies have been
pre-approved. They're simply waiting to be implemented.

OprahCare outreach coordinators wearing "So
Sorry" shirts 
Is
Lowering the Bar Racist?
  For
at least a decade, blacks (excluding African immigrants) have maintained the
anchor position regarding the achievement gap. The achievement gap is the observed, persistent
disparity of educational measures between the performance of groups of
students, especially groups defined by socioeconomic status,
race/ethnicity, and gender. It can be detected on a variety of
measures, including standardized test scores, grade point
average, dropout rates, and college enrollment and completion rates.
Federal and state educators continue to create policies and initiatives in attempt
to tighten the widening achievement gap — even if those policies / initiatives sometimes cater to the
lowest denominator or embrace low expectations.

  For
example, in 2012, the state of Virginia proposed controversial education goals
that lowered passing rates for blacks, Latinos, and students with disabilities
but made the rates higher for white and Asian students. Patricia Wright,
Virginia's superintendent of public instruction at the time, defended the
policy: 
"The
concept here is that if indeed within six years we can close the achievement
gap between the lowest- and highest-performing schools — at least cut it in
half — that would be acceptable progress." 
  According to NPR, the updated passing
rates were a result of Virginia's board of education analyzing students'
test scores in reading and math. In math, the acceptable passing rate for
Asian students was set at 82 percent, 68 percent for whites, 52 percent for
Latinos, 45 percent for blacks, and 33 percent for kids with disabilities.
Apparently, with educational goals for blacks
near the level of students with disabilities, the old adage that black
students have to "work twice as hard" doesn't apply here. The one
upside of black students being placed at the bottom is that there's nowhere
else to go but up. I guess this is the lead from
behind strategy.
 
Firestorm Erupts Over Virginia's
Education Goals
npr.org
 
Florida's board of education also wants to
narrow the achievement gap by lowering of academic standards for black
students. Florida only expects seventy-four percent of their black pupils to be
proficient in Math and Reading (at grade level or better) by the year 2018. As
far as Florida's expectations for its Asian/white/Latino students, seventy-four
percent is an unacceptable indication of underachievement; such status is
reserved for blacks. It expects 90 percent of Asian students, 88 percent of
white students, and 81 percent of Hispanics students to be reading at or above
grade level. For math, the goals are 92 percent of Asian kids to be proficient,
whites at 86 percent, Hispanics at 80 percent and blacks at 74 percent.
Florida Passes Plan For Racially-Based Academic Goals
tampa.cbslocal.com
  One frustrating aspect of this 'cater to the lowest
denominator' approach becomes apparent on
graduation day. These schools don't issue the coddled, black graduates
diplomas that reflect their academic shortcuts. Instead, they receive the
same diploma — once based on merit and successful comprehension of the
core curriculum — as their diverse counterparts who were held to a higher
standard. In other words, equal reward without equal effort. 
  In
the STEM fields — Science, Technology,
Engineering, Math — the dearth of black students is telling. It's a field where
lowering the bar is ultimately detrimental to the individual. One typically has
to possess the aptitude and work ethic to endure these challenging
fields.  
Despite
the recent focus on improving and increasing STEM education in the United
States, results from an online survey conducted by Harris Interactive on behalf
of University of the Sciences show that over half (51 percent) of all
high school-aged students are not interested in pursuing careers in healthcare
and the sciences. Even more disconcerting is the increase in lack of interest
from African American students, who are already tremendously underrepresented
in the STEM workforce.
 
The 51 percent of 9th-12th grade
students who say they are definitely or probably not considering a career in
science or healthcare represents a 4.1 percent increase over last year's
survey. The largest group contributing to this percentage is African Americans,
with 61 percent of respondents declaring they are not interested in pursuing
careers in healthcare and the sciences. 
  On the RGI's endless hunt for racism, it'll
cite Silicon Valley and the overall tech industry's shortage of blacks as
racism; even though the RGI knows that there's an urban perception that STEM is
for THEM (Whites and Asians).
 
Minorities Represent Largest Sector
Not Interested In Pursuing STEM Careers
prnewswire.com
 











#BlackLivesMatter
"Black lives do matter but it must
matter to black people first." - Arthur Reed (Ex-Gang Leader)
  The
Race Grievance Industry has many offspring, front organizations, and troll
groups, but Black Lives Matter (BLM) is its militant wing and general purpose
mob. This wholly-owned
subsidiary of the Race Grievance Industry attempts to present itself as a
simple grassroots movement spawned from injustice, when in actuality,
it's an AstroTurf movement spawned to create racial agitation/division, civil
unrest, and lawlessness — while pushing a Marxist, anti-police agenda
under the guise of "black issues." For the record, BLM's brand of Marxism is
inspired by Karl Marx not Groucho Marx; even though BLM's claimed impetus is
hilarious like the latter. According to BLM's
official website, the movement started:
"[a]fter
17-year-old Trayvon Martin was post-humously [sic]
placed on trial for his own murder and the killer, George Zimmerman, was not
held accountable for the crime he committed." 
  For
the last three and a half decades, blacks have accounted for more than half of
America's homicide
victims, yet a group that literally calls itself "Black Lives Matter"
somehow didn't care to exist until Trayvon Martin was killed by George
Zimmerman. Evidently, not even one of those black-on-black deaths prior to
Zimmerman/Martin was sufficient to start a "Black Lives Matter" crusade.
Furthermore, during the 503 days between Trayvon's death and Zimmerman verdict,
thousands of blacks were murdered, but their killers didn't have George
Zimmerman's pigmentation; they had George Jefferson's pigmentation.  So,
those lost lives — like the thousands that were killed pre, during, and post
Trayvon's life — didn't matter to a group that deliberately named itself "Black
Lives Matter." Wikipedia states, "Black Lives Matter (BLM) is an international activist movement,
originating in the African American community that
campaigns against violence toward black people." Am I completely misunderstanding BLM, or simply realizing the real lies? Definitely, it's
the latter! 

"For every Trayvon Martin killed by someone
not black, nine other blacks were murdered by someone black," wrote John W.
Fountain, an award-winning journalist and professor at Roosevelt University. He
further elaborated about urban America's murder mania, which in 2015, spiked by
thirty-three percent or more in Baltimore, St. Louis, and New Orleans:
"Imagine Soldier Field, home of the NFL's
Chicago Bears, filled beyond capacity, brimming with 63,879 young
African-American men, ages 18 to 24--more than U.S.
losses in the entire Vietnam conflict. Imagine the University of Michigan's
football stadium--the largest in the U.S.--filled to its limit of 109,901 with
black men, age 25 and older. Now add 28,223 more--together totaling more than
U.S. deaths in World War I. Picture two UIC Pavilions, home to the University
of Illinois-Chicago Flames, packed with 12,658 Trayvon Martins--black boys,
ages 14 to 17--nearly twice the number of U.S. lives lost in Iraq and
Afghanistan. Now picture all of them dead. The national tally of black males 14
and older murdered in America over a 30-year period from 1976 through 2005,
according to the Bureau of Justice Statistics: 214,661.The numbers tell only
part of the story of this largely urban war, where the victims bare an uncanny
resemblance to their killers."
 
As New York Justice Edward McLaughlin expressed to an urban terrorist during
sentencing for attempted murder, "Black
lives don't matter to black people with guns." The deniers and apologists
may lie about this reality but the numbers don't. 
Our Dead Could Fill Our Stadiums
huffingtonpost.com
 
BLM's website reveals just as much about its non-actions as its actions.
Firstly, judging from BLM's body of work, the term "Black Lives Matter" should
have an asterisk. Clearly, only a specific kind of black life matters to the
BLM movement. Secondly, the more accurate name and hashtag is #BlackLivesMatterWhenTakenByWhites.
I'm guessing that this phrase is
too long and more importantly, too honest for tee-shirts, so BLM settled for
the first three words.
The Old vs.
New
 
Although BLM is tethered to the RGI, it wants to become an independent
movement with discernable differences between itself and the grievance vampires
of old. At a rally in St. Louis for Michael Brown, a rapper/BLM activist
declared, "This ain't your grandparents' civil rights movement," and veteran civil rights activist Barbara Reynolds agrees. "He's
right," wrote Reynolds, an ordained minister, author, and former
editor/columnist for USA Today. Her analysis continued: 
"It
looks, sounds and feels different. Black Lives Matter
is a motley-looking group to this septuagenarian grandmother, an activist
in the civil rights movement of the 1960s. Many in my crowd admire the
cause and courage of these young activists but fundamentally disagree with
their approach.  Trained in the tradition of Martin Luther King Jr., we
were nonviolent activists who won hearts by conveying respectability and
changed laws by delivering a message of love and unity. BLM seems intent on
rejecting our proven methods. This movement is ignoring what our history has
taught.
 
The
baby boomers who drove the success of the civil rights movement want to get
behind Black Lives Matter, but the group's confrontational and divisive tactics
make it difficult. In the 1960s, activists confronted white mobs and
police with dignity and decorum, sometimes dressing in church clothes and
kneeling in prayer during protests to make a clear distinction between who was
evil and who was good.
 
But at protests today, it is difficult
to distinguish legitimate activists from the mob actors who burn and loot. The
demonstrations are peppered with hate speech, profanity, and guys
with sagging pants that show their underwear. Even if the BLM
activists aren't the ones participating in the boorish language and dress,
neither are they condemning it.
I was a civil rights activist in the
1960s. But it's hard for me to get behind Black Lives Matter.
washingtonpost.com
  Yusra Khogali, Toronto Black Lives Matter
co-founder, used Facebook to set the record straight regarding the change of
guard. She also updated whites on how they'll be impacted by the policy
changes: "What wypipo
(white people) don't understand is that this is not like our elders movement.
We will snatch ur edges and
clap back you into ashes. We will also beat that ass becky. Run up." Using coded speech to threaten
others gives BLM plausible deniability when convenient.

  Indisputably, a generational divide has manifested
between veterans and rookies. Whether it's Jesse Jackson being booed in
Ferguson, Rep. John Lewis saying that Black Lives Matter protesters should
respect everyone's right to be heard, or Rep. Elijah Cummings being called
derogatory names during the Baltimore riots, the quarrel has gone public. 
    
  At a
rally organized by Al Sharpton's National Action Network (NAN) in Washington
D.C., BLM activists stormed the stage
— after NAN officials reportedly denied them access — and claimed that the old
regime was attempting to hijack the Black Lives
Matter movement. Ashley Yates, co-founder of BLM affiliate group
Millennial Activists United, took to Twitter to "air dirty
laundry" about Sharpton who praised the young leaders' work at a
summit convened by the White House, but never joined their protests or attended
any action planning sessions. Moreover, Yates claims that Sharpton had "not
a single word" to say to
the young activists when the meeting was over. The consensus of the new
generation is that Sharpton wants to claim these splinter groups without
showing any substantive interest in the work they've been doing. Pastor Danny
Givens Jr., the clergy liaison to Black Lives Matter in Minneapolis, stated
that they (old guard) "want to co-opt the [Black Lives Matter] movement by
presenting an olive branch and unity in order to promote their own agenda.
These are preachers who have been doing this for 30 years or more and they
don't want to make room for the next generation of faith leaders."
Black clergy group apologizes for
"intolerance" by some black pastors
startribune.com
 
During a National Action Network (NAN) meeting, Shakedown Sharpton
forcefully responded to the youngsters' sentiment, and tried to convince them
that they're being manipulated by others: "It's the disconnect that is the
strategy to break the movement. And they play on your ego. 'Oh, you young and
hip, you're full of fire. You're the new face.' All the stuff that they know
will titillate your ears. That's what a pimp says to a ho."  Sharpen essentially wants to control
BLM's trajectory/development and complete the training of the fledgling
activists. Only then, will they be able to fully join the dark side.  
Amid tensions,
Sharpton lashes out at younger activists
capitalnewyork.com
  The
Christian Science Monitor highlighted BLM's rebuke of a top-down leadership: 
"In
years past, the civil rights mantle of Martin Luther King Jr. was taken up by
other charismatic leaders, political figureheads such as Jesse Jackson and Al
Sharpton - each a skilled orator with roots in the black church, which in many
ways is still the center of community life and politics for black Americans.
 
But
as the country remembers Dr. King on Monday, a new generation of activists is
doing things differently. Many within the Black Lives Matter movement are
uncomfortable with venerating any "great man" of the past, and they
reject the idea that any dynamic figurehead should embody their struggle today.
 
Younger protesters are doing much of
their work through social media, and they're deciding that the social
conservatism of many black churches is part of mistakes of the past. Many of
these activists also say that the Black Lives Matter Movement owes a greater
debt to the organizing principles of Occupy Wall Street than to the civil
rights movement."
 
Although BLM is comprised of individuals growing up in an America that's
vastly different from their predecessors, i.e. Mississippi isn't still burning,
Jim Crow is dead, there's a black First Family etc., the
grievances inexplicably remain the same. 
For Black Lives Matter, MLK's kind of
activism isn't the. only way
csmonitor.com
  Oprah Winfrey, critical of BLM's lack of
leadership, voiced her concerns during an interview promoting "Selma" — the film she produced about the 1965 protests
in Alabama over voting rights for blacks.  The
queen of the RGI told People magazine: 
 "I think it's wonderful to march and to protest and it's wonderful to see all across
the country, people doing it," she says. "But what I'm looking for is some
kind of leadership to come out of this to say, 'This is what we want. This is
what we want. This is what has to change, and these are the steps that we need
to take to make these changes, and this is what we're willing to do to get
it.'" 
  The response from BLM supporters was swift.
The verdict was in; Oprah was guilty of being an out of touch elitist. The
judgment made her clutch her pearls.
 
Protesters slam Oprah over comments
that they lack 'leadership'
washingtonpost.com
 
Black Lives Matter is demanding to be the face of the victimization
narrative this century. They are not waiting for the torch to be passed. However, understand that the differences between the old schoolers and
new schoolers are tactical not philosophical.
Obama Brings Black Lives Matter and
Civil Rights Activists Together for Meeting
time.com
BLM's Strategy
  If the only tool one has is a hammer,
everything tends to be treated as nails. That's BLM's conflict resolution
approach.
BLM
merges some traditional civil rights strategies with social media blasts to its
tactic of direct confrontation. And "voila," a toxic brew of grievances via
coordinated chaos is then poured onto society. Phillip Agnew, co-founder of the
BLM affiliate group Dream Defenders, told reporters:
"We and
people around the country are going to continue to take to the streets, we're
going to continue to disrupt the daily order and ensure that business doesn't
happen as usual until something happens for the people in our communities and
we see some meaningful reform and clear indications from not only the
president's office, but from governors, mayors, and police chiefs and officers
around this country, that Black lives do truly matter."
 
This
Ain't Your Granddaddy's Civil Rights Movement
bet.com
  BLM is powered by negative
energy placed into motion. In other words, it's sustained by an emotion (energy
+ motion) that's negatively charged. This emotional (instead of logical)
approach can easily be seen and verified through its protest methodologies. It
is unconcerned with the fact that these antagonizing ploys for immediate
gratification have caused long-term, irreparable damage to its
reputation. Admittedly, BLM does an excellent job of disruption; but just
as atheists are quicker to burn a Bible than a Koran, BLM
knows its limits. BLMers will hit soft targets or low hanging fruit; places
that have no influence or even played a part in the "oppression."
Interestingly, BLMers never attempt to disrupt the flow of anything in the
black community that would potentially stop black-on-black homicides. Overall,
the protests are attention-whoring endeavors. And when an
actual tragedy occurs that takes some shine away from BLM — such as the Paris
attacks — BLM supporters will huff and puff as if victimization is
BLM-exclusive. How dare other people besides BLM receive attention for their
suffering!  The audacity! The
nerve! 

Demonstrations
 
Apparently, stores, malls, city streets, and highways across America are
oppressing blacks and thus need to be confronted. BLM has disrupted activity at
many innocuous places — unworried that the commotion may ultimately hurt the
very people it claims to serve — while triumphantly detailing their activity on
social media with incident specific hashtags. Cutting off its nose to spite its
face is a standard RGI ploy. Comedian/activist Dick Gregory once called for a boycott of Florida's tourism
and agricultural industries (specifically Disney and orange producers) to help
eliminate the Stand Your Ground Laws, while racial grievance guru Jesse
Jackson, told CNN, "No doubt, the
inclination is to boycott Florida, stop conventions, to isolate Florida as a
kind of apartheid state."   
Black
Lives Matter protest shuts down Mall of America and airport terminal
theguardiancom
 
[Author's
Note: America's largest shopping mall was locked down after hundreds of
protesters gathered for a Black Lives Matter demonstration that also caused an
airport terminal to shut down.]
 

#BlackJobsDontMatter during the busy season
  One
cold winter day in January, 2015,
a group of BLM demonstrators hopped out of a rented van on Interstate 93 in
Massachusetts, unrolled barrels — each filled with 1,200 pounds of concrete —
and chained themselves to the barrels. Thousands of commuters were
inconvenienced, particularly, an ambulance carrying an 83-year-old man who was
seriously injured when his pickup truck skidded on ice and smashed into a stand
of trees. Due to the BLM-induced congestion, the ambulance had to be
diverted from a nearby hospital in Boston to one in Brockton, delaying this
senior from receiving necessary hospital care in the process. State Police and
firefighters had to saw the barrels and tubing loose to clear the highway.
Twelve protestors were arrested, and at their sentencing, heard an impact
statement from the 83-year-old man's daughter. Also, the judge called the
protesters' actions "foolish," and added, "One man in an ambulance had a
beautiful life that mattered." The protestors never explained how shutting
down a major highway helped their cause. Oh, it didn't.
BLACK LIVES MATTER PROTEST HALTS
TRAFFIC ON 405 FREEWAY
abc7.com
 
Judge scolds Black Lives Matter
protesters, who get probation
enterprisenews.com
Political
Rallies
  When was
the last time BLM crashed a corner of drug dealers? Oh, I remember... It
happened somewhere around the time when the cow jumped over the moon. Instead
of confronting the urban corner-clusters, crashing political campaign rallies
(using intimidation tactics) is prioritized — even if the candidates such as Sen. Bernie Sanders and
Hillary Clinton play for BLM's team. Assumingly, Sen. Sanders, a socialist's
socialist who wants to give away more "free" stuff than other democrat
politicians do, and calls for an end to over-policing in black neighborhoods and systemic racism, is adored by BLM. Within a month's span, the
group made its presence felt at two of his speaking engagements. MSNBC reported
on the second encounter that occurred in the liberal utopia of Seattle,
Washington:
"We're shutting this event down — now," said an
activist who suddenly leapt on stage. She approached the microphone where
Sanders had just begun speaking, thanking attendees for welcoming him to "one
of most progressive cities in the United States of America." An event organizer
attempted to stop the activist, and a heated exchange ensued as the crowd
booed.
Eventually, activist Marissa Johnson was
allowed to speak. "I was going to tell Bernie how racist this city is, even
with all of these progressives, but you've already done that for me. Thank
you," she said as some in the crowd called for her arrest.
Johnson then asked for a four-and-half-minute
moment of silence to honor Michael Brown Jr., the black teenager who was killed
by police in Ferguson, Missouri, a year ago. As the crowd grew more agitated,
Johnson added that Sanders says he cares about grassroots movements, but, "The biggest grassroots movement in this country right
now is Black Lives Matter." 
Sanders stood by silently the entire time.
Eventually, organizers decided to end the event and the Vermont senator did not
return to the microphone.
  Although Sen. Bernie Sanders was an active
participant of the 60's civil rights movement, and his record on fighting for
civil rights is longer than the weaves worn by BLM's professional disrupters,
none of it mattered to their short-sighted, estrogen-driven agenda.
Bernie
Sanders event shut down by Black Lives Matter activists
msnbc.com
 
Senator Bernie Sanders felt "the Bern" after his threesome
with BLM
  Hillary
Clinton, wife of former president Bill Clinton, who was affectionately called
America's "first black president" by
blacks, hosted a private, five-hundred dollar per plate event. Black Lives
Matter activists
crashed her Grey Poupon-laden soirée demanding that she account for some of
her past statements on racial justice. BLM claims that as First Lady, she supported
her husband's 1994 crime bill, which led to an
increase in mass incarceration, three-strike federal sentencing laws, the elimination of rehabilitative
programs for drug abuse, and emphasized prison
construction. All of which
disproportionately affected blacks. Hillary should've reminded BLM that she's
married to an honorary black man, and thus exempt from black criticism.
Alternatively, her campaign stated that different policies make sense at
different times; therefore, today's Hillary Clinton is calling for "facing up to the reality of systemic
racism" and ending the school-to-prison pipeline. In other words, she's speaking from both sides of her mouth.

Sign quotes Clinton's 1996 statement regarding at-risk youth:
"We have to bring them to
heel."
  When BLM protestors appeared at a Hillary
campaign event in Philadelphia Pa., Bill Clinton vehemently defended his 1994
crime bill and even had harsh words for the heckling BLMers. In
grievance-speak, America's first (unofficial) black president was suddenly
"acting white." Nation Public Radio (NPR) reported: 
He said the bill lowered the country's crime rate,
which benefited African-Americans, achieved bipartisan support, and diversified
the police force. He then addressed a protester's sign, saying:
"I don't know how you would characterize the gang leaders who got 13-year-old
kids hopped up on crack and sent them out onto the street to murder other
African-American children," Clinton said, addressing a protester who
appeared to interrupt him repeatedly. "Maybe you thought they were good
citizens .... You are defending the people who kill the lives you say matter.
Tell the truth. You are defending the people who cause young people to go out
and take guns."
  Noticeably, the
lynch mob didn't (and won't) hold the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) accountable for endorsing the
1994 crime bill. The feigned rage is simply another "blame whitey" scenario for
black people's problems, and then guilt-trip whites into fixing those problems.
Even though Clinton Inc. and other limousine-liberals are amongst a dwindling
group that still tolerates BLM's temper-tantrums, tolerance from typical white
liberals in the real world has to be waning. It's obvious that BLM wants
friends but doesn't want to be a friend.

Bill Clinton Gets Into
Heated Exchange With Black Lives Matter Protester                                                  
npr.org
[Author's
Note: Bill Clinton violated a major tenet of the
Democratic Party; never speak about black apathy and hypocrisy regarding
pervasive black criminality... Only reinforce positive black imagery!
Additionally, embrace and "appreciate" any verbal abuse from blacks, regardless
of its hostility level. After all, blacks are going to vote for the party
anyway so grin, and bear it.]
 
Black
Caucus yields on crime bill
articles.baltimoresun.com
Die-Ins 
  A
die-in, sometimes known as a lie-in, is a form of protest where
participants simulate being dead. In the simplest form of a die-in,
protesters simply lie down on the ground and pretend to be
dead — sometimes even covering themselves with signs or
banners. The insincerity of BLM die-ins is that its die-ins never occur in places where blacks are literally dying, such as
the hood. BLM's die-ins are simply grandstanding
gestures in front of non-threatening whites. 
 
BLM die-in at the 2015 Twin Cities Marathon finish line with a sign
that read, "Fuck Yo Finish Time" 
#BlackBrunch
  Under the hashtag #BlackBrunch, BLMers
invaded restaurants, diners, or eateries frequented by whites in affluent or
gentrified neighborhoods. The best diners to disrupt were the hipster diners. Apparently,
they're hotbeds of police brutality. While white
hipsters enjoyed their overpriced omelets or Pabst beers, BLMers would read the
names of black people killed by cops — and they didn't use their "inside voices" while reading.
Instead, they yelled and behaved as if
they possessed the absolute moral authority to castigate the patrons for
brunching while white. Although visibly bewildered, the customers would
usually pause until the storm passed. Yet, another
protest in a place that has nothing to do with the reason for the protest.  
 
#BrunchingWhileWhite < #BlackBrunch
Vendetta = Violence 
  The RGI knows that resentment against whites
is a core emotion within many
blacks. And as Jedi Master Yoda sagely identified, "Anger leads to hate... Hate leads to suffering." Indeed, the underlying antipathy
has led to suffering (from the
victim mindset) and violence against whites. And yes,
I've actually used a Yoda quote.   
  Dr.
Thomas Sowell, the intellectual juggernaut, noticed the pattern of attacks and
concluded that a black and white race war is in effect. He wrote:
"Initial skirmishes in that race war have already begun, and
have in fact been going on for some years. But public officials pretend
that it is not happening, and the mainstream media seldom publish it at all,
except in ways that conceal what is really taking place."
Former Congressman, Allen
West, echoed Dr. Sowell's sentiment and added:
"We were supposed to be living in a post-racial America since
we elected the first 'African-American' president. That's hardly the
case."
  I have a tremendous amount of respect and
admiration for these men. They're not Race Grievance Industry members or
stockholders of victimology. Contrarily, these black men are straight-shooting
realists who emphasize critical thinking over critical complaining. Moreover,
they want to do what's right for America instead of what's best for a few
Americans. However, despite my admiration, I disagree with their assessment
that the continued black-on-white violence indicates a present or future race
war. A race war requires at least two engaging races: the reoccurring
black/white interracial violence is statistically overwhelmingly one-sided.
More whites are killed annually by blacks than vice
versa.

Hate Facts
  Still,
I maintain that it's not a race war. These assaults are simply considered
payback. And this 'payback' has been happening for decades with the RGI's
blessings (White victim + Black culprit = Payback/racial revenge). Since whites are generally perceived by many
blacks as universal oppressors who consistently use institutionalized racism as a weapon of mass (black) destruction, black-on-white
offenses are typically regarded as justified payback for white persecution.
Actor Jamie Foxx exemplified this mindset while promoting his movie
(Django). He joyously proclaimed:
"I kill all the white people in the movie. How great is that?
And how black is that?"
  Imagine a white actor saying, "I get to whip black people in the movie.
How great is that? And how white is that?"
  Even the white liberals who proudly display
their "Hope & Change" bumper
stickers and "Black Lives Matter" sympathies
can't escape the perception that whites are inherently racist. In fact,
white liberals are simply viewed as whites who internalize their racism,
whereas white conservatives are considered shamelessly racist. The former may
actually be despised more than the latter. Either way, the victim mentality
emphasizes that "good and bad" whites are simply opposite sides of the same
racist coin. George Yancy, a black professor of philosophy at Emory
University, blatantly stated in his New York Times article, "Dear
White America" that "Being a
'good' white person or a liberal white person won't get you off the hook." 
 
Black-on-white violence rarely receives condemnation from
the black press, and unsurprisingly, the mainstream media also conveniently
overlook this pattern of racial violence; it conflicts with the portrayal of
blacks as permanent victims incapable of being racists. Therefore, the
non-coverage is just another instance of the corporate media spitting at the
public and reporting it as rain.
  Undoubtedly, white resistance is surfacing,
and I believe this observation sparked Dr. Sowell's
commentary. Nevertheless, the mounting white backlash is more of an
awareness campaign and shedding of "white guilt," than one of violence.
  Dr. Sowell also
mentioned that he was appreciative that old age
may spare him from seeing a race war. I say, enjoy the remainder of your
earthly time because there is not, and will not be a race war. Laughably,
the New Black Panthers have been endlessly calling for a race war, but the New
Black Panthers are as relevant on racial matters as the Carolina Panthers (NFL
football team). Nonetheless, 'payback' attacks will continue with BLM's tacit
encouragement. And sometimes, only divine intervention can postpone those
attacks from occurring. Such was the case when Toronto Black Lives Matter
co-founder Yusra Khogali used Twitter to beg "Allah" to stop her from killing "white folks."  She tweeted, "Plz Allah give me strength to not cuss/kill these men and white folks
out here today. Plz plz plz."


Moving to Saudi Arabia would solve her problem
Payback
Instances    
  Most
people know the name of that white Hispanic guy who stood his ground in
Sanford, Florida, but certainly, many don't know the name of the white-Hispanic
who didn't stand his ground in Washington, D.C. His name is Chris Marquez, a
decorated Iraq war veteran whose bravery inspired two statues. He was brutally
attacked and robbed by a pack of black feral teens after they approached him
and asked whether "black lives matter." The decorated Marine was eating in a
McDonald's when the miscreants surrounded him and began yelling, "Black lives matter." At that point, they
demanded he answer the question, "Do you believe black lives matter?" He didn't respond. "I felt threatened and thought they
were trying to intimidate me, so I figured I'm just going to keep to my food,
eat my food and hopefully they'll leave me alone," Marquez told WJLA. The
youths then started calling him a racist, he said. When he proceeded to leave
the restaurant, the name-calling spiraled into a physical assault.  One of the teens hit
him in the head from behind, knocking Marquez unconscious to the ground, where
the gang beat and robbed him. Marquez told police that one youth hit him in the
head with what he believed was a handgun, which couldn't have been the case
because D.C. has a gun ban. Surely, this criminal wouldn't dare violate the gun
ban.
  The
veteran, who had survived ambushes in Fallujah, awoke on McDonald's sidewalk
with his pants ripped and his wallet — containing $400 in cash, three credit
cards and his Veterans Affairs medical card, among other things — stolen.
Washington D.C. police said they weren't considering the incident a hate crime.
It takes no imagination to envision the black ethnic response had the marine shot
and killed the domestic assailants as he once did foreign assailants. 
Former
Marine, AU student says he was beaten in racially motivated attack
washingtonpost.com

  
During his time in the Corps, Marquez was
deployed to Iraq three times and Afghanistan once. He served
eight years on active duty in the Marines as a rifleman and scout sniper from
2003-2011, and was awarded a Bronze Star for valor on his first deployment for
carrying his commander's body out of combat after dying in an ambush. 
Marquez is the subject of the "No Man Left Behind"
statues, at Camp Lejuene and Camp Pendleton, depicting him and another man
holding up a wounded soldier at the Battle of Fallujah.
  Two white teens, Jourdan Bobbish and Jacob
Kula, were murdered execution-style in a Detroit field, and their lifeless
bodies were discovered days later. They were robbed, tortured, and then
murdered after trying to buy drugs. Their black killers, Fredrick Young and
Felando Hunter, were sentenced to life in prison. During sentencing, the
victims' families read impact statements. Jacob Kula's mother lamented, "Not only did the defendant take away my
son's future; he took away my future - my future as a mother - my future as a
grandmother," Jourdan Bobbish's mother grieved, "I have sorrow in my heart, soul and every fiber of my being today and
I will carry that with me for the rest of my life."
  After hearing their touching statements,
defendant Fredrick Young
had something to say to the court. He wanted to apologize... BLM-style:
"I'd like to say sorry to the families of Aiyanna
Jones, Michael Brown, Eric Garner. I want to apologize
to them for not being able to get justice for their loved ones who was murdered
in cold blood - and in respect for the peaceful protest, I want to say hands up
don't shoot. Black lives matter - that's it your honor." 
  With
no apology to his dead victims or their eternally impacted families, I was
hoping that the urban terrorist at least apologize for being born. 
 
Super
predator gave BLM-inspired speech
BLM Investors
 
Rapper Jay-Z and his wife Beyoncé are huge supporters of the Black Lives
Matter movement. In fact, Mic.com reported that Jay-Z's global music and
entertainment platform Tidal, in association with Roc Nation planned to donate
$1.5 million to Black Lives Matter and several other local and national social
justice organizations. The majority of recipients are social justice groups and
organizations specifically committed to ensuring the nation understands that
black lives matter. Tidal strategically made the announcement about its
donation on what would've been Trayvon Martin's twenty-first birthday. The
money was raised from a sold-out charity concert held in Brooklyn, New York,
which featured Beyoncé, Nicki Minaj, Jay-Z, Lil Wayne, and Nick Jonas. Jay-Z and Beyoncé's philanthropic endeavor shouldn't be surprising. During the Ferguson Fiasco of 2014 and
Baltimore Tsunami of 2015, Hip Hop's First Family secretly bankrolled tens of
thousands of dollars in bail money to protesters. Dream Hampton, Jay-Z's
ghostwriter for his book "Decoded,"
publicized the power couple's covert financial support in a sequence of tweets — before quickly
deleting them. She doubled-down on her statements in an email sent to the New
York Daily News: "I can say I've
personally helped facilitate donations they've given to protesters directly and
that they never ask for anything in return, especially publicity." Hmmm... I wonder why they don't
contribute to the witness relocation program to combat the no-snitch mentality.
Jay Z's Tidal to Donate $1.5
Million To Black Lives Matter, Other Social Justice Groups
mic.com
 

  The
money contributed by Hip Hop's Barack and Michele Obama is merely pennies on
the dollar when compared to the money disbursed by the chief financier of BLM's
instigated methods of social justice —
left-wing billionaire George Soros. In an online poll conducted by Human Events, George
Soros was voted, "the single most destructive leftist demagogue in
the country." In 1998, Soros wrote, "Insofar as there
are collective interests that transcend state boundaries, the sovereignty of
states must be subordinated to international law and international
institutions." According to Soros's private foundation tax filings —
uncovered by the Washington Times — Soros donated $33 million dollars to dozens
of different social justice organizations, to help turn events in Ferguson
(Missouri), from a local protest into a national flashpoint. The billionaire's funding financed the bussing of
professional organizers from Washington, D.C., and New York into Missouri. The
numerous organizations reportedly created their own online 'echo chamber', by
using their extensive social media presences to synchronize 'likes', reposts
and comments on articles reflecting their point of view. BLM is just one of his
pawns to push other agendas to divide America. BLM is cannon fodder for a broader battle. Soros knows that a house divided against itself cannot stand. 
George
Soros funds Ferguson protests, hopes to spur civil action
washingtontimes.com
 

The Overseer
#CutTheCheck
 
Famed BLMer, DeRay
McKesson, quit his school administrator job in Minnesota to become a
professional protestor for the RGI. So, what happens when the Race Grievance
Industry's money doesn't trickle down to its hired agitators in a timely
fashion? Naturally, the employees will become restless and bite the hand that's
supposed to feed them. When Ferguson became ground zero for racial frenzy, the
RGI's rent-a-mob tactic caused dissention after the hired protesters didn't
receive their pay. Suddenly, the only black lives that mattered to the
professional protesters were their black livelihoods #BlackLivelihoodsMatter.
As a result, they created a #CutTheCheck hashtag, and even held a sit-in at the
offices of MORE (Missourians Organizing for Reform and
Empowerment).  MORE, is the updated Missouri branch of ACORN
(Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now), which filed for
bankruptcy in late 2010. Investigative journalist and author Matthew
Vadum uncovered that MORE has been active in the Ferguson protests, and in efforts to
free jailed demonstrators so they can continue vandalizing businesses,
intimidating perceived adversaries, setting fires, and throwing projectiles and
human waste at cops. 

MORE's Facebook post
advertising 'Free Warrant Search' event
 
  MillenialAU (MAU), one of the BLM
umbrella groups that participated in a sit-in, wrote an open, grievance letter
to the white overseers of BLM-related finances, and posted it online.
On May 14, 2015
many individuals and organizations of the protest movement that began in
Ferguson, Missouri organized a sit-in in the office of Missourians Organizing
for Reform and Empowerment (MORE). The demand was simple: Cut the checks.
Early in the movement, non-profit
organization MORE, formerly known as the St. Louis chapter of ACORN, and local
St. Louis organization Organization for Black
Struggle created a joint account in which national donors from all over the
world have donated over $150,000 to sustain the movement. Since then, the poor
black [sic] of this movement who served as cash generators to bring money into
St. Louis have seen little to none of that money. Furthermore, since the influx
of funding has started, poor black people continue to take to the streets all
the while losing their homes, vehicles, ability to feed themselves and their
families, and suffering from trauma and mental illness with no ability to
afford quality mental health services. Questions have been raised as to how the
movement is to sustain when white non-profits are hoarding monies collected of
off [sic] black bodies? When we will [sic] hold the
industry of black suffering accountable? The people of the community are fed up
and the accountability begins here and now.
This isn't about MORE. This is about
black lives in the Black Lives Matter movement who are literally broke and
starving. There is an insidious strand of racism and white supremacy that
exists in this movement and it is called the Non-Profit Industrial Complex. As
a by-product, it provides decent salaries and comfort to many people who are
not affected by the disparities that they are trying to address. This money is
typically in the hands of white people who oversee the types of services that the
non-profit provides, while having select token black people to spearhead the
conversations within and to the community.
We NEED to be thinking about justice
for black people. This means white people must renounce their loyalty to the
social normalcy that maintains white power and control. If black lives really
matter, justice and self-determination for black people would mean the black
community would control it's [sic] own political and
economic resources.
It is asinine to believe that black
people can continue to organize and take to the street when they can barely
meet their basic needs. In St. Louis, organizers and protesters depleted
$50,000 of the available funds and dispersed it among the people in the
movement in no particular order. Jeff Ordower, executive director of MORE,
stated that another $57,000 is expected in the next one to two weeks in which
those funds will also be dispersed to the black people in the movement.
Moving forward, we are building a
board of accountability within this movement.  We must funnel economic
into this movement through the hands of black people who are fighting with and
for black life. More on this board will be discussed as we develop.
 
Remember, BLM isn't fighting for equality; it's fighting to
generate and maintain salaries. #BlackLivelihoodsMatter 
Hired Black Lives
Matter protesters start #CutTheCheck after being stiffed by ACORN successor
group
washingtontimes.com

Library Bans
BLM
 
Majority black Nashville, Tennessee is ranked number forty-five on NeighborhoodScout.com's list of "Most
Dangerous Cities - 2016." Within a year, one's chances of becoming a victim
of either violent or property crime is one-in-twenty. Relative to Tennessee,
Nashville's crime rate is 87 percent higher than the other cities and communities.
So, who did Nashville's chapter of Black Lives Matter place into its
crosshairs? Of course, it wasn't Nashville's black thugs — that move would
violate its Hypocritical Oath (Refer to Hypocritical not Hippocratic Oath
Chapter). Nashville's
Public Library was targeted.
 
Black Lives Matter conducted its chapter meetings at the North Branch
Library in North Nashville until library officials informed BLMers that events
excluding groups of people could not be held inside the city's libraries. BLM
accused the library of practicing "white supremacy," but the truth (as
truth usually is) was simple; so simple that BLM made it complicated. As a
taxpayer-funded entity, Nashville's library system — which has an entire
department devoted to civil rights — has a policy that mandates all meetings at
their facilities be open to the public and news media. It has an open-door,
open-meeting policy. It wasn't until a complaint from a library patron, who saw
a BLM advertisement about an upcoming meeting and felt excluded, alerted the
library staff to Black Lives Matter's exclusionary policy. The library was
previously unaware of the group's racist rule, which allows blacks as well as
non-blacks of color to attend but prohibits whites. 
 
Naturally, the library's decision outraged Black Lives Matter, who then
responded with its standard blame-game talking point. "Due to white
supremacy in our local government, this week's BLM General Body Meeting location
has changed," BLM posted on its Facebook page. "We were surprised
about it, but we shouldn't have been," a BLM member told The
Tennessean of the library's decision. "We kind of know the history
about how this goes in this country. ... It's definitely something we want to
make public to tell people what's going on in the city."
  The
group moved its meetings to a church where I assume it's acceptable to holler
racism while practicing racism. I only pray that a
wise soul in that church humbly asks, "What would Jesus do?"
Black Lives Matter 'color-only' rule runs afoul of Nashville library
tennessean.com
 

BLM
doesn't understand simple math... Racism + Racism = Racism
 











Hypocritical not
Hippocratic Oath
"Every veil secretly desires to be lifted, except the veil
of hypocrisy." - Richard Garnett
  A
Hippocratic Oath holds those who swear to it to a strict code of professional
and personal conduct. The oath, historically
taken by physicians, stipulates
that they will do their professional best to administer care regardless of an individual's
race, religion, creed, etc. Juxtapose the altruism of the Hippocratic Oath to
the oath practiced by self-appointed race-healers. I
call it the Hypocritical Oath, and its foundation is based on hypocrisy instead
of humanitarianism. These race-healers prescribe and administer grievance-laced
placebos to exploit the pre-exiting condition of victimhood that's afflicting
the black community. In other words, it's the RGI's method of Pavlovian
conditioning,
and it's difficult to break. Nonetheless,
attempting to illuminate the RGI's fallacies to those who've chosen blindness
is an exercise in futility. 
  According to BLM's
official website, its members "affirm that All Black Lives Matter." BLM's affirmation that "All Black Lives Matter" absolutely
exemplifies the Hypocritical Oath. Clearly, its "All Black Lives Matter" motto
doesn't apply to the black lives turned into anti-matter by black thugs — which
explains why BLM's favorite black people to rally for are the "qualified." 
The Qualified
  The
qualified ones are blacks killed by whites. They're the minority within a
minority whose deaths will be praised and remembered more than their
lives.  Members of this elite club have hit the BLM lottery, and the BLM
benefits package includes:
 
Marches
with customized slogans/props       Front page
celebrity endorsements
 
 
   
Presidential
commentary            Black
frat covers funeral costs
 
 
Eulogy
from R. G. I.
Member                
The Wrath of Khan (Farrakhan)
 
 
Parents may speak at the
U.N.                  
Propagandized Mural

One super qualified person may even got a
Super bowl shout out
But wait... the perks don't stop there:
* Canonization with
eternal recognition as a martyr despite existing rap sheet
* Never-ending
comparisons to icons of the civil rights movement i.e. Dr. King/Emmet Till
* Foundation
created with celebrity endorsements
* Funeral
livestreamed
* Financial
settlement
* White perpetrator will be caricaturized
as a racist demon whose believes that black lives don't matter
* Wikipedia page
The
Disqualified
  The
disqualified ones are blacks killed by blacks. Being murdered sucks; and for these
following individuals it sucked more because the perpetrator was black. Thus,
they were disqualified from national temper-tantrums
on their behalves, #BlackLivesMatter hashtags, or any other BLM
race-based grievance benefits. Ultimately, disqualified blacks have to
settle for anonymity and simple makeshift rituals (stuffed-animal memorials,
and candlelight vigils) reserved for black-on-black homicide victims. 
  For
example, on a Labor Day weekend in Brooklyn, New York, one-year-old Antiq
Hennis was shot dead while being pushed in a stroller by his father. The bullet
pierced his skull and according to an eyewitness, "there was blood all over
the stroller." The police believe that those bullets were intended for the
child's father who had an extensive, rap sheet across two states; including
weapons possession, controlled substances, automobile theft, and assault. The
sins of the father visited his offspring. A stroller march or any march did not
occur on the young victim's behalf.
 
No stroller march for 18-month-old
Antiq Hennis shot & killed while in a stroller. Instead, this tribute
'I shot that motherf****'!: Baby killer's sick boast as he thought he hit the
child's father before a witness shouted back 'no you idiot, you shot the kid'
dailymail.co.uk

  
Kamiya
French             
Angel Hooper           
Amiracle Williams
Michigan man kills 2-year-old girl by
shooting her execution-style to torture her dad: police
newyorkdailynews.com
 
[Author's Note: Kamiya was
sitting on a porch with her dad when the urban terrorist walked up and shot her
point-blank-range. His motive was retaliation: telling police that he wanted Kamiya's father to watch her die. The father and a
12-year-old family friend were also shot during this hate crime. Yes, hate
crime!]
 
Girl, 6, killed buying bubblegum in
K.C. drive-by shooting
cbsnews.com
 
[Author's Note: Angel was at
a store with her father when she was shot in the head. Hmmm...
I wonder why there were no "Bubble Gum" marches. Is it because she wasn't
buying Skittles?]
 
 
Facebook Fight Led To Fatal Shooting Of 3-Year-Old Amiracle Williams, Detroit Police Say
huffingtonpost.com
 
[Author's Note: An altercation over Facebook posts occurred outside
Amiracle's home when someone took out a machine gun and began to fire
repeatedly, striking Amiracle and three family
members.]
Chicago
  Year
after year, Chicago, also known as the "The Second City," places first among
U.S cities with the most number of shootings and black homicide victims.
Chicago, also called "Chiraq" — due to the war-like conditions in its urban
areas being comparable to war-torn Iraq — is brimming with disqualified
blacks. To thugs, "Chiraq" is a term of endearment, whereas the RGI thinks
the name makes blacks look bad. It's funny how the savages who create those
deplorable conditions are never demonized for making blacks look bad. I
digress. BLM's website lists twenty-eight chapters, but if black lives
truly mattered, Chicago should be its headquarters or at least, the biggest and
busiest chapter. In short, Chicago — where the Mayor Rahm Emanuel's son was
once assaulted and robbed near the mayor's home — is the number one place where
black lives splatter via black-on-black genocide. 
Mayor Rahm Emanuel's Son Robbed,
Beaten Near Home
dnainfo.com
  The
Chicago Tribune reported that at least nineteen people were shot and killed New
Year's weekend 2016, including a person gunned down just blocks away from the
mayor's home — another hundred were shot but survived. Within the first ten
days of 2016, more than a hundred Chicagoans were shot — three times more than
2015. Overall, Chicago's homicides in January's 2016
increased seventy-five percent compared to January 2015. Moreover, from January
to the end of March 2016, there were 677 shooting victims, a staggering 88.5 percent
increase from the 359 over the same period in 2015. Chicago's first quarter of
this year also saw a 72 percent rise in murders compared to 2015's first
quarter. Those one hundred and forty-one Chi-town homicides over three months
were more than America's two largest cities (Los Angeles and New York)
combined. In response to the nearly 3,000 people shot by the end of the 2015, Chicago
police spokesman Anthony Guglielmelli released a statement that presently holds
true; urban terrorists are the root of the virulent violence.
"So far this year, the majority of the
gun violence we've seen are a result of chronic gang
conflicts driven in part by social media commentary and petty disputes among
rival factions." 
More than 100 people shot in Chicago
in first 10 days of 2016
nydailynews.com
 
Chicago's
rising gun violence and racial tensions are driving out the wealthy
businessinsider.com
Laquan
McDonald Qualifies
  Out of all the Chicago carnage,
unsurprisingly, only one particular death was sexy enough for BLM. Laquan
McDonald, a
17-year-old black male armed with a 3-inch knife, was shot sixteen times by Chicago
Police Officer
Jason Van Dyke from approximately ten feet away. Video
of the shooting, captured on one police cruiser's dashboard camera, was
released to the public thirteen months after the incident. Officer Van Dyke was
charged with first-degree
murder a
few hours after the video's release, and hundreds of protestors took to the streets. On
the second night of protests, demonstrators tore off lights from a public
Christmas tree in
Daley Plaza and multiple marchers were arrested. On
Black Friday, a major shopping day for retailers, protesters chanted
"sixteen shots" and other slogans while marching on Michigan
Avenue, Chicago's central shopping district. This caused some businesses to
shut their doors and police to close Michigan Avenue — a six-lane street. 
  Jabari
Dean, a 21-year-old college student, posted an online threat to kill
sixteen unspecified white males — one for every shot fired at McDonald, plus
any white police officers who might intervene —
at the University of Chicago. 
This is my
only warning. At 10 a.m. on Monday mourning (sic) I am
going to the campus quad of the University of Chicago. I will be armed with a M-4 Carbine and two Desert Eagles all fully loaded. I will
execute aproximately (sic) 16 white male students and
or staff, which is the same number of time (sic) McDonald was killed.
 
I then will die killing any number of white policemen
in the process. This is not a joke. I am to do my part and rid the world of the
white devils. I expect you to do the same....
  The
university cancelled classes scheduled for the next day. Dean was summarily
arrested by the FBI. Had Dean successfully
followed through on his threats, and been subsequently killed by the police,
his casket would've received a hero's welcome.
Chiraq's
Disqualified Blacks
  The
demise of a child is unnatural, but in Chiraq, it's a way of life. Not only are
children killed as collateral damage between urban terrorists, these innocent
souls are oftentimes targeted. Children are dying before they reach
double-digits in years. Most of us can remember the anticipation and excitement
when transitioning from single to double-digit years. I'm not hyperbolizing
when stating that I have emails older than many of the kids dying in urban
America. These heinous and unfathomable acts should infuriate the masses, and
are nothing more than examples of adults failing to safeguard the young. Laws
exist to protect children from the many forms of abuse — mental, physical,
sexual, neglect — but defending our young against lawless predators should be
inherent.
Amari Brown
  The
Windy City, which recorded more murders than any other municipality in 2015,
experienced a bloody July Fourth weekend — eleven
people killed, more than fifty wounded. One of the weekend's victims was
seven-year-old Amari Brown, who police said was killed during a drive-by that
was likely intended for his father, a high-ranking gang member. The boy's
father had been previously arrested forty-five times with twelve convictions
and was out on bail at the time of his son's murder. Amari had just returned
from watching the holiday fireworks with his family when urban terrorists
opened fire at a group of people. His father refused to help detectives with
the investigation. Amari's death by a black thug meant disqualification.
7-year-old
Amari Brown fatally shot while celebrating 4th of July
in Humboldt Park
homicides.suntimes.com

7-year-old Amari Brown
"Hamburger"
Smith
  Antonio
Smith, affectionately called Fat Baby and Hamburger, loved to make other people
laugh, his family members recalled. Also, the fourth-grade honor roll student
was so smart that he could "sell water to a whale," according
to his obituary distributed at the church where he was baptized and sang in
choir. His framed Washington Park peewee football No. 84 jersey stood to the
left of his small white casket. His demise was sponsored by urban terrorism.
  One
afternoon, four urban terrorists were driving around looking to shoot rival
gang members when they spotted two foes. Certain that these two were targets,
one of the urban terrorists — already on parole for another gun-related crime —
exited the car to approach them on foot. In the process, he came across Antonio
Smith who was playing in the rear yard of a residence. Believing that the
9-year-old was yelling a warning to his intended victims, he shot Antonio Smith
six times — hitting his right chest, right outside forearm, center back, right
lower chest, right shoulder, and left hand, plus two additional graze wounds to
the left hand. "I just hit a shorty. I just hit a shorty," was his
reaction after hopping into a getaway car. Prosecutors said the shooter also
urinated on his hands to cleanse them of gunpowder residue, and then changed
his shirt and returned home to comply with his electronic monitoring
requirements. Antonio's lifeless body was found on a concrete slab just a few
feet from railroad tracks that have long served as the dividing line between
the two rival gang factions.
Prosecutors:
Gunman told fellow gang member 'I just hit a shorty'
chicagotribune.com

Being killed by a
gangbanger disqualified "Hamburger" 
Tyshawn Lee
  The
sins of 9-year-old Tyshawn Lee's
gang-banging father cost the fourth-grader his young life. According to
prosecutors, an urban terrorist — facing five felony charges in three separate
cases, including the murder of
19-year-old Brianna Jenkins and the attempted murder of 20-year-old Deshari
Bowens — had a vendetta against a rival gang because  his
brother was killed and mother shot. He vowed to kill "grandmas, mothers and children." So, his gang of urban
terrorists went out daily, armed with guns, seeking revenge. Tyshawn, a kid who
loved to play basketball, was spotted at a local park. The urban terrorist —
who later confessed that he had originally planned to kidnap Tyshawn and cut
off his fingers and ears — approached Tyshawn and asked if he wanted to go to
the store. Tyshawn responded that he didn't have any money. The thug then
stated that he'd buy the fourth-grader whatever he wanted. Tyshawn took the
bait, and his green trust cost him his life. As they walked down an alley, Tyshawn
was shot execution-style. The basketball he carried was found nearby.
Prosecutors say after murdering Tyshawn, the urban terrorist wanted to return
to the park and kill all the kids there but police were already present.
Showing no remorse, the depraved urban terrorist wrote a rap song bragging
about Tyshawn's murder, and even described how the 9-year-old suffered from the
gunshots. "Shorty couldn't take it no more. Shorty couldn't take it no
more," was a verse on the sociopath's song. 
PROSECUTORS:
SUSPECT IN TYSHAWN LEE MURDER WANTED TO TORTURE BOY, SHOOT UP PARK
abc7chicago.com

Tyshawn's death by a black thug meant
disqualification
Memphis
 
BLM's website states
that it "is working for a world where Black lives are no longer
systematically and intentionally targeted for demise." Well, Memphis is yet
another "black" city "where black lives are systematically and intentionally
targeted for demise." But since the culprits responsible for the demise of
blacks aren't exploitable — because they're also black, BLM stays true to its
Hypocritical Oath, and turns a blind eye.
 
Placing second on Forbes' "America's
Most Dangerous Cities 2015" list, and sixth on NeighborhoodScout.com's
2016 "Top 100 Most Dangerous Cities in the U.S.," the "Bluff City" doesn't
bluff when it comes to violent crime. More than 98 percent of Tennessee's other
communities have a lower crime rate, and one's chance of becoming a victim of
either violent or property crime (within a year) in Memphis is one-in-thirteen.
Additionally, NeighborhoodScout.com
says that Memphis has the fourth, sixth, and twenty-second most dangerous
neighborhoods — #4 E. Mclemore Ave/Latham St, #6 E. Eh Crump Blvd/S 4th St,
#22 Thomas St/ Frayser Blvd — on its Top 25 Most Dangerous Neighborhoods in
America list. With a crime index ranking of one out
of a hundred (one hundred is the safest), Memphis is only safer than
one-percent of American cities. In 2015, 74.5 percent of
Memphis' homicide victims were black males, and 68.3 percent were under the age
of thirty-five. 
Analysis:
Homicide victims in Memphis far more likely to be black men
commercialappeal.com
  Additionally, WMC
Action News 5 reported that 435 children were shot or shot at in Memphis.
The unbelievable amount of young Memphians harmed included fifteen-year-old Cateria
Stokes, killed by a drive-by shooting while sleeping, and seven-year-old Kirsten
Williams, killed less than twenty-four hours later by a drive-by shooting
as she played with friends in a neighbor's driveway. Many locals believe that
seven-year-old Kirsten's death was retaliation for Cateria's death. Despite the
435 children being shot or shot at in Memphis, BLM sat on its hands waiting for
a martyr moment, which none of these kids qualified.
435
children shot, shot at in Memphis during 2015
wmcactionnews5.com

7-year-old Kirsten Williams & 15-year-old
Cateria Stokes' funerals were held on the same day
  Memphis, like most majority black cities has a
history of using misdirection and scapegoating as a means of addressing its
self-inflicted ailments. Young black males are far more
likely to be the victims of homicide here than any other race or gender. But,
instead of changing its bloody reality, Memphis politicians want to
change people's perception of Memphis. Hence, the banning of a popular,
nationally televised show that inadvertently exposed Memphis' dark side. Memphis
Commercial Appeal reported:
Elected
officials aren't generally known for their camera-shyness. Yet some Memphis
City Council members weren't comfortable with local police appearing on a
documentary series called "The First 48."
 
The
series, which airs on the A&E cable channel, follows detectives as they try
to solve murders within the first two days after the crimes have been
committed.
 
Council
member Wanda Halbert said the show was giving viewers
elsewhere around the country a bad impression of Memphis.
 
"I heard out-of-town people say
Memphis was out of control," Halbert said.
"We were exposing the world to the worst aspects of our city."
  The
show actually highlighted the amount of time, effort, and sacrifices that
Memphis' detectives dedicate to solving homicides. The public, especially where
the "no-snitching" mantra is law, has a behind-the-scene access to a thankless
but necessary job. Understanding how detectives operate can potentially help to
build a bridge between police and community. Seemingly, the city council
prefers a rift instead of a bridge — even instituting a 4.6 percent pay cut for
the Memphis Police Department. The police union
responded by sponsoring billboards that warned, "DANGER: Enter at your own
risk; This city does not support public safety." The
former mayor, A C Wharton, blamed the billboards for hurting Memphis' image
instead of the true source — urban terrorism and the liberal policies that
enable it. 
Memphis police cut
ties with TV's 'First 48': Show sensationalizes city violence, council
says 
commercialappeal.com
 
Memphis mayor says police union's
'danger' billboards hurting city's image
foxnews.com

Memphis Police Association put up
billboards  
  In a sensible piece titled, "Fiddling Away the Future," Dr. Walter E.
Williams — a John M. Olin Distinguished Professor of Economics at George
Mason University — questioned the motives of Memphis' former mayor A C Wharton:
 
What about
Memphis Mayor A C Wharton's proposal to "help" his black constituents? He has proposed to dig up the bodies
of Confederate Gen. Nathan Bedford Forrest and his wife and remove them from a
city park. One wonders whether he thinks marshaling resources to do that is
more important than dealing with the city's 145 murders, 320 rapes, 6,900
aggravated assault calls, and 3,000 robberies. All of the Memphis black
homicide victims were murdered by other blacks. 
 
Comically, the mayor's plan to bring Memphis back from the brink of destruction
is by demonizing white people — dead white people at that. Such a maneuver has
solidified A C Wharton as one of BLM's favorite mayors. After all, they share
the same inaction plan.
Memphis mayor: Dig up dead
Confederate general, wife
examiner.com
Ferguson,
Missouri Memory
 
Every time Ferguson is referenced, I automatically think of that young
black kid's senseless murder.  Shot and killed while being in the right
place at the right time was truly a tragedy. After all, she was shot and killed
while doing homework at home. And according to her mother, 9-year-old Jamyla
Bolden was usually the first to yell, "Mom, they're shooting," whenever
neighborhood gunshots erupted. However, this round of gunfire didn't give
Jamyla a chance to warn others, or even take cover. Oh wait, you do know that
other homicides — besides "the one" — occurred in Ferguson... right?
Jamyla Bolden's mother recounts the
night her daughter died
kmov.com
 
The
fact that most readers may have initially believed that I was referencing
Ferguson's Only Begotten homicide (Mike
Brown), shows the success of BLM's Hypocritical Oath. Both Jamyla Bolden and
Mike Brown were two Ferguson natives shot dead; one was a child while the other
was depicted as a child. Yet, protesters only chanted, "Hands up, don't
shoot'' for one of them.  The "Hands
up, don't shoot'' story has been debunked by the Department of Justice
headed by Eric Holder, who arrived in Missouri after Mike Brown's death and declared,
"I am the attorney general of the United States, but I am also a black man."
Furthermore, Holder dispatched dozens of the department's most experienced investigators
to Ferguson searching specifically for possible violations of federal criminal
civil rights statutes. For the record, no one violates civil
rights more than black thugs do, but I digress. Interviews with
witnesses and other residents were conducted, and Holder assured,
"I'm confident that through the ability of these people that we'll be able
to make a determination of whether or not any federal statutes have in fact
been violated." Ultimately, the DoJ's report found that Brown's rights were
not violated, and it even addressed the incessant "Hands up, don't shoot"
narrative:
"Although there are several
individuals who have stated that Brown held his hands up in an unambiguous sign
of surrender prior to Wilson shooting him dead, their accounts do not support a prosecution of Wilson. As detailed
throughout this report, some of those accounts are inaccurate because they are
inconsistent with the physical and forensic evidence; some of those accounts
are materially inconsistent with that witness's own prior statements with no
explanation, credible for otherwise, as to why those accounts changed over
time. Certain other witnesses who originally stated Brown had his hands up in
surrender recanted their original accounts, admitting that they did not witness
the shooting or parts of it, despite what they initially reported either to
federal or local law enforcement or to the media. Prosecutors did not rely on
those accounts when making a prosecutive decision. While credible witnesses gave varying accounts of exactly what
Brown was doing with his hands as he moved toward Wilson - i.e., balling them,
holding them out, or pulling up his pants up - and varying accounts of how he
was moving - i.e., "charging," moving in "slow motion," or "running" - they all
establish that Brown was moving toward Wilson when Wilson shot him.
Although some witnesses state that Brown held his hands up at shoulder level
with his palms facing outward for a brief moment, these same witnesses describe
Brown then dropping his hands and "charging" at Wilson." 
 
Feelings > Facts
 
The
"Hands up, don't shoot" tale has been dismantled to a point where even
the left-leaning Washington Post added it to its annual list of shame, "The
biggest Pinocchios of 2015":
"This phrase became a rallying cry for
protests after the fatal shooting of a black 18-year-old by a white police
officer, Darren Wilson. Witness accounts spread after the shooting that Michael
Brown had his hands raised in surrender, mouthing the words "Don't shoot" as
his last words before being shot execution-style. Democratic
lawmakers raised their hands in solidarity on the House floor. But various
investigations concluded this did not happen — and that Wilson acted out of self-defense
and was justified in killing Brown"
 
Instead of "Hands up, don't shoot," the more fitting phrase is, "Assault
a cop, he'll shoot!" But since the Hypocritical Oath maintains the lie of victimhood, "Hands up, don't shoot" will continue to
be propagated and recited as if it's gospel. In fact, the apt line, "When
the legend becomes fact, print the legend," (from the 1962 classic western film The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance) is essentially the mission statement of today's black
press.
The biggest Pinocchios of 2015
washingtonpost.com
  Jamyla Bolden's death yielded no demands that
city officials step down, resignation of the entire department, or tribute from
the St. Louis Rams football team. Moreover, no self-described "urban
militia" offered a cash bounty for her killer's location as was presented
for Officer Darren Wilson's whereabouts. However, a protest occurred the night
following her death. Unfortunately, it wasn't for her; it was directed at the
police for shooting and killing eighteen-year-old Mansur Ball-Bey — a black
male — during a drug raid. According to the police, two
suspects attempted to escape when officers arrived with a search warrant.
Ball-Bey reportedly turned around and pointed his weapon at the officers. He
was shot four times. The other suspect got away. Ball-Bey had a stolen gun, and
the police retrieved three more guns and an unspecified amount of crack cocaine
at the house. The officers who shot him are white. Demonstrators in nearby St.
Louis took to the streets, threw rocks and bottles at the police (who arrived
with riot gear and armored vehicles) and set fire to a car, vacant house, along
with mattresses set out as makeshift barricades. Noteworthy is the fact that
Jamyla's house is one block away from where Mike Brown was shot.
 
Michael Brown (Qualified)     Jamyla
Bolden (Disqualified)
Cleveland's
Castaway
 
Cleveland, often referred to locally as "The North Coast," is a
majority black city, and thus, infiltrated by urban terrorism. One's chance of
becoming a victim of either violent or property crime in Cleveland is
one-in-fifteen. Within Ohio, more than ninety-nine percent of the communities
have a lower crime rate than Cleveland. Furthermore, Cleveland's crime index ranking of two
(one hundred being the highest) means that it's safer than only two-percent of
U.S. cities. Because of its rampant criminality, Cleveland has secured the twenty-third
spot on NeighborhoodScout.com's "Top
100 Most Dangerous Cities in the U.S.A." 
  The
shooting of 12-year-old Tamir Rice occurred
in Cleveland, after two police officers responded to a dispatch call "of
a male black sitting on a swing and pointing a gun at people" in a
city park. A caller stated that a male was pointing "a pistol"
at random people in the Cudell Recreation Center. The responding officers
reported that Rice reached towards a gun in his waistband upon their arrival,
which caused them to shoot at Rice. He died the following day. The gun was fake but the ensuing protests were real. Tamir Rice's death
qualified for the BLM benefits package. Additionally, the Smithsonian National
Museum of African-American History and Culture is seeking to have the gazebo
(where his was killed) preserved.
Five-year-old Ramon Burnett was also shot and killed in Cleveland, but for
obvious reasons his death wasn't as scintillating to the RGI or BLM. As reported by CLEVELAND.com: 
Ramon
Burnett's Labor Day weekend started out as typical as any end-of-summer
celebration for a 5-year-old boy. 
 
The
kindergartner at George Washington Carver Elementary School, known to friends
and family as "Dink," came to his grandmother's apartment on Louise
Harris Drive after school Friday afternoon.
 
He
used his heartwarming smile to score a quarter from a family friend. He traded
it with a neighbor for a homemade slushy. He tossed a football with the
neighborhood children in a yard behind his grandmother's home. Parents watched
from their stoops and through the open doors.
 
Then
came the gunshots.
 
At
5 p.m., with the sun still shining, Ramon became the youngest victim in a
season punctuated by violence in what is becoming one of the bloodiest summers
in Cleveland in nearly a decade.
 
When officers arrived, they found the
boy lying next to the football that he tossed around with friends. There, the
boy who loved Spiderman and whose mother called him "handsome" would
draw some of his last breaths.
 
5-year-old
tossing football becomes latest casualty in Cleveland's deadly summer
cleveland.com
 
 
One was shot while holding a football... the other
was shot while holding a toy gun. Two tragedies, but only one qualified for
martyrdom
Only Oscar is
Oscar-Worthy
  In
Oakland, which is number
three on Forbes list of "America's Most Dangerous Cities" and number
nine on NeighborhoodScout's list of "100 Most Dangerous Cities in the
U.S.,"  exists a one-in-thirteen
chance of becoming a victim of either violent or property crime. Additionally,
more than 99% of California's other communities have a lower crime rate than
Oakland, whose West Oakland section has the fifteenth most dangerous
neighborhood in America. Oakland's crime index ranking
of one (one hundred being the highest) means that it's safer than only
one-percent of U.S. cities, and that harrowing statistic isn't because of the
police.
  In
2009, 22-year-old Oscar Grant was
fatally shot while handcuffed by a white BART (Bay Area Rapid Transit)
police officer.
BART settled with Grant's daughter and mother for a total of $2.8 million in
2011. The incident was the basis of the critically acclaimed 2013 film Fruitvale Station,
which grossed more than seventeen million dollars worldwide from an initial
budget of $900,000. 
  But there's another Fruitvale story, and I'm
not talking about the sequel to Fruitvale Station. The star of this Fruitvale
story is a little girl who would've been a third-grader at Fruitvale Elementary
School, but instead had her fate determined by an urban terrorist.
Eight-year-old Alaysha Carradine, whose family affectionately referred to as ladybug,
was shot and killed at her best friend's sleepover. An urban terrorist rang the
apartment's doorbell and started shooting as Alaysha's friend opened the door.
The bullets pierced the apartment's metal gate and struck four of the five
people inside. Alaysha was killed. Her 7-year-old best friend sustained wounds
that weren't life-threatening, as did her friend's 4-year-old brother and
64-year-old grandmother. Alaysha was the youngest of Oakland's murder victims
in 2013. 
 
Oakland 8-year-old shot dead at
sleepover
mercurynews.com
 
Oscar Grant's death qualified him for a movie while Alaysha Carradine's
death didn't even qualify her for a special on B.E.T. (Black Entertainment
Television). Consequently, her story remains untold to the masses.
 
                  
Both shot & killed, but only one story appealed to moviemakers
The Black
Press
  If
you watch the black press to learn about the state of affairs in the black
community, you'll be informed; if you believe the black press about the state
of affairs in the black community you'll be misinformed. That's because the
black press — anchored by the National Association of
Black Journalists (NABJ) — is the official
mouthpiece of the Race Grievance Industry, and thus, only speaks on the behalf
of the "qualified." 
  The
National Association of Black Journalists' constitution: 
"We, the members of the National Association
of Black Journalists, who are striving for credible journalism that
comprehensively portrays the voices and experiences of African Americans and
people from the black diaspora for a society and world that values them..."
  In
short, the NABJ places emphasis on everything black except black violence and criminality. Therefore, it practices the Hypocritical Oath. It is standard
operating procedure to racialize black issues, and the
so-called "black" websites — Black Voices, owned by the Huffington Post, The
Grio, owned by MSNBC, The Root.com, owned by the Washington Post — are the
heaviest promoters of the victimization narrative. Since employment is fickle
in the media field, stories about victimhood receive top billing because they generate high
web traffic, which translates into job security. Ebony, a
financially-struggling black magazine, once started a "Save Our Boys"
campaign, as if blacks were being slaughtered by whites. As far as
black-on-black violence coverage, the black press is lackadaisical, yet holds
the mainstream media to a standard that it doesn't hold itself. 

Essence's Black Lives Matter edition only
featured "qualified" blacks 
#BlackTwitter
  #BlackTwitter
is the social media arm of the RGI and essentially, an extension of the black
press. In fact, the NABJ and Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism
hosted a Black Twitter Conference to consolidate the agendas of the black press
and #BlackTwitter. According to Salon.com, #BlackTwitter is the "new underground
railroad," a "collective of active, primarily African-American Twitter
users who have created a virtual community ... [and are] proving adept at
bringing about a wide range of sociopolitical changes." Blacks are
Twitter's biggest demographic
— 28 percent, compared to 20 percent of white, non-Hispanic Americans — and
thus, Black Twitter's impact is significant. It uses hashtags to make black
topics go viral, create martyrs of the moment, and construct racial
grievances. Black Twitter was credited with having stopped a proposed book
deal between a Seattle literary agent and one of the jurors in the trial
of George Zimmerman. It was also instrumental in a boycott against Paula
Deen — a celebrity chef, accused of racism — and affiliated companies and
sponsors. In short, #BlackTwitter is a collective of aggrieved armchair activists,
hastag-tivists, and keyboard-kamikazes. There isn't a black
grievance that #BlackTwitter doesn't attempt to make viral. 
The
Secret Power Of Black Twitter
buzzfeed.com
 
Is Twitter the underground railroad
of activism?
salon.com
[Author's
Note: Unlike #BlackTwitter, I use my twitter page (@TaleebStarkes) to highlight
stories of innocent people killed by urban terrorists.]
 

Black Press = Black Twitter
Do the Right (RGI) Thing?
  When Spike Lee used his #BlackTwitter privilege
to retweet an assumed address of George Zimmerman, the intent was clear; Jorge
the "white Hispanic" had to suffer for shooting and killing Trayvon Martin.
Spike wanted vigilante justice. However, the address he tweeted to his quarter
of a million followers actually belonged to a blameless, elderly couple in
Sanford, Florida. As a result, their home was bombarded with threats and
vitriol aimed at Zimmerman. Lee later apologized and claimed that it was a
mistake. The apology wasn't enough. The seniors eventually filed a lawsuit
against Spike Lee for placing them into eminent danger. In Lee's reality, the
mistake wasn't the tweet itself, but tweeting the
wrong address. He never shows this level of passion when it comes to vigilante
justice for kids killed by urban terrorists. And that's because the criminal
element has handcuffed itself to the black community with the black community's
consent. Blacks have the key to uncuff the criminal subculture but refuse to
use it. 
  
More evidence that the RGI only fights for the
"qualified" blacks
Bait Master
  The black press purports to represent black interests
and dialogue, but hesitate to tackle the most pressing issue facing blacks:
intraracial genocide. Since 1980, blacks have
accounted for almost half of the nation's homicide victims (47.4%) and for more
than half of the offenders (52.4%) while only being 13% of America's
population. The offending rate for blacks is seven times higher than for whites
and the victimization rate six times higher. Homicide is the number one cause
of death for black males between the ages of 15-34.
From 1993 to 2010, black males ages 18 to 24 had the
highest rates of firearm homicides. Blacks are eight
times more likely to be murdered than whites, and
black males are ten times more likely to be murdered than white males. Even
though the offender will be a black person ninety-plus percent of the time, RGI
propaganda states otherwise. 
'Black-ish' delves into 'Black Lives
Matter' with police brutality episode
newsday.com
  A Tuskegee
Institute study conducted a study of all known lynchings of blacks that occurred
between 1882-1968. During this 86-year span, which is
essentially the post-Civil War era up to the Civil Rights era, 3,446 blacks
were reportedly lynched. Presently, black-on-black murder eclipses the number
of blacks lynched (over the course of 8 decades) roughly every six months. 
 
 The minority report
  Baltimore's 2015 ended as its
bloodiest and deadliest year — on a per-capita basis. In 2014, Detroit's police chief called
upon law-abiding citizens to take arms against its burgeoning, violent,
criminal subculture. And since the black press is quick to point out that
violence is typically intraracial, why would it then shift blame for the continuous urban carnage onto racism? Agenda...Agenda...Agenda.
  
July 1973 Racial Truth < January 2013
Racial Agenda
  Along with the black press, apologists
(in general) justify the endemic violence in majority black cities by citing
the fact that crimes are largely intraracial.
However, the severity of black criminality is unintentionally highlighted when
a majority white city like Pittsburgh (Pennsylvania),
often named as a "most livable city," has the
twelfth most dangerous neighborhood in America. This
unsafe neighborhood that made the shameful list isn't a white, trailer park
neighborhood — it's a black
neighborhood. In fact, America's most dangerous cities are
never ones dominated by trailer parks, only projects and subsidized housing. In 2014, eighty-five percent of Pittsburgh homicides
were black, specifically, young black men — including collateral
damage victims. In this majority white city, shouldn't white people be the bulk
of the homicides? After all, white people commit crimes too, white-on-white
homicides occur too — as I'm often
reminded. Blacks are approximately twenty-five percent of Pittsburgh's
population, and Pittsburgh's Police Chief Cameron McLay told Publicsource.org, "There's
a victimology here that is completely unacceptable." The police chief
also acknowledged that police and the
community had become acclimated to violence. Publicsource.org reported further:
"In
Pittsburgh, only certain neighborhoods bleed.
 
PublicSource.org mapped
every homicide in the city from 2010 through 2015. The results show a startling
geographic division — and clear racial disparity — in who suffers the brunt of
the violence.
 
There
were no killings in Shady Side. None in Point Breeze, where
some of the city's wealthiest residents make their homes.
 
In
fact, there were no murders at all in the huge area — mostly white and affluent
— south of Penn Avenue down to Interstate 376. The murder-free zone runs from
the eastern city limit up to the borders of Bloomfield and Oakland.
 
But
from Penn Avenue and above — in East Hills, Homewood, Larimer, Lincoln-Lemington-Belmar and the northern part of East Liberty —
there were 94 homicides during that six-year period. More than half remain
unsolved.
 
Again,
that's nearly 100 murders on one side of the street, and zero on the other.
 
The Hill District had 42 homicides.
More than half remain unsolved."
 
Police attribute the violence to a very few individuals, and it doesn't take
Columbo to determine the race of the offenders. Moreover, if the perps
were white with black victims, the unsolved murder cases would likely be zero. Unquestionably,
the community would be actively involved.
In Pittsburgh, neighborhood violence
lives next door to prosperity
publicsource.org
 
Wilkinsburg — a poverty-stricken,
mostly blighted 66% black suburb near Pittsburgh known for drug trafficking and
violence — experienced an incident that's
familiar to its bigger sibling. Two urban terrorists methodically shot and
killed six people, including a nearly 8-month-pregnant woman and her fetus, at
a backyard cookout. Investigators said one gunman fired from an alley near the
backyard party, which prompted the partygoers to run toward a house for cover,
where they were ambushed by another rifle-wielding gunman. The police have
desperately urged witnesses or anyone with information to come forward.
Meanwhile, the black press showed no
interest in this tragedy until a white Pittsburgh anchorwoman said something
provocative that the RGI could exploit as racism. The anchorwoman posted this
truthful commentary (in part) on her Facebook account:


  All of sudden, RGI splinter groups that I had
never known existed showed up to feign outrage. Groups such as The Pittsburgh
Black Media Federation, who issued a statement that read, in part: 
"The irresponsible statements
demonstrate a persistent problem with how African-Americans are negatively
stereotyped by too many journalists and news organizations."
 
Unsurprisingly, there was more outrage about the Emmy-winning reporter's
words than the actions of the urban terrorists. Noticeably, no one disputed her
assessment, only her "white privilege" for giving license to her
observation. I bet that none of the "concerned" grievance groups contributed to
the burial fund of the victims. Meanwhile, the anchor — under pressure from
the PC police — retracted her comments, apologized, and then fell onto her
sword; all for the delight of the RGI. Ultimately, none of her exhibited
remorse mattered; she was fired. Her eighteen years on air and accumulation of
twenty-one regional Emmy awards meant nothing in this age of political
correctness. Refer to Land of the Free, Home of the Offended chapter.
Pittsburgh anchor regrets
'insensitive' post on black shooting suspects
wkbn.com
  Black-on-Black
genocide is so common that in a rare moment of honesty, the New Pittsburgh Courier openly celebrated when June of 2013
yielded no Black homicides. It rejoiced:
"The past few weeks have been loaded
with news, with the most popular being the Supreme Court decisions on
Affirmative Action, Voting Rights and Gay Marriages.
But there was an even bigger news story that occurred that most of the media
missed. It was huge. No Black homicides in the month of June.
Yes you read it right. No Black
homicides in the entire month of June. Zero." 
Just Sayin'...No
Black homicides in June
newpittsburghcourieronline.com
  Although
Pittsburgh (called the "Steel City" because of its many steel-related
businesses) lost its industries, unemployment didn't cause it to sink into a
dystopia as Detroit did. Pittsburgh, also known as "the City of Bridges," is yet
another place that the RGI will use as a bridge into victimhood while burning
the bridge to accountability. 
BLM's Favorite
Doctor
  If
BLM had a primary care physician, it would be Dr. Kermit Gosnell. Like BLM, he
practiced the Hypocritical Oath. Although "women's health" was professedly the
primary focus of his Women's Medical Health Society clinic in Philadelphia, the
clinic actually focused on health of profits. Over three decades, Dr. Gosnell
made millions of dollars performing thousands of dangerous abortions, many of them
illegal late-term procedures. Dubbed as "The House of Horrors," his clinic had
no trained nurses or medical staff other than Gosnell — a family physician
not certified in obstetrics or gynecology. Dr. Gosnell's practice accommodated
women who were "too pregnant" and couldn't get abortions elsewhere. Under
Pennsylvania law, abortions are illegal after twenty-four weeks of pregnancy
and most doctors won't perform procedures after twenty weeks because of the
high health risks. Dr. Gosnell, on the other hand, interpreted this high risk
as high reward. The bigger the baby, the more he charged. He didn't advertise,
but word got around. He had cornered this niche market. Women came from across
the city, state, and region for illegal late-term abortions; paying $325 for
first-trimester abortions and $1,600 to $3,000 for abortions up to thirty
weeks. The clinic took in $10,000 to $15,000 a day, authorities
said. 
  The grand
jury report stated that he regularly delivered live, viable babies in the third
trimester of pregnancy and then murdered these newborns by severing their
spinal cords with scissors. Sometimes, Gosnell even joked about the babies,
saying one was so large he could... "walk me
to the bus stop."  Philadelphia's District Attorney detailed
the clinic's environment:
"When
the team members entered the clinic, they were appalled, describing it to the
Grand Jury as 'filthy,' 'deplorable,' 'disgusting,' 'very unsanitary, very
outdated, horrendous,' and 'by far, the worst' that these experienced
investigators had ever encountered. There was blood on the floor. A stench of
urine filled the air. A flea-infested cat was wandering through the facility,
and there were cat feces on the stairs. Semi-conscious women scheduled for
abortions were moaning in the waiting room or the recovery room, where they sat
on dirty recliners covered with blood-stained blankets. All the women had been
sedated by unlicensed staff - long before Gosnell arrived at the clinic - and
staff members could not accurately state what medications or dosages they had
administered to the waiting patients. Many of the medications in inventory were
past their expiration dates... surgical procedure rooms were filthy and
unsanitary... resembling 'a bad gas station restroom.' Instruments were not
sterile. Equipment was rusty and outdated. Oxygen equipment was covered with
dust, and had not been inspected. The same corroded suction tubing used for
abortions was the only tubing available for oral airways if assistance for
breathing was needed.
 
[F]etal
remains [were] haphazardly stored throughout the clinic- in bags, milk jugs,
orange juice cartons, and even in cat-food containers... Gosnell admitted to
Detective Wood that at least 10 to 20 percent... were probably older than 24
weeks [the legal limit]... In some instances, surgical incisions had been made
at the base of the fetal skulls. The investigators found a row of jars
containing just the severed feet of fetuses. In the basement, they discovered
medical waste piled high. The intact 19-week fetus delivered by Mrs. Mongar three months earlier was in a freezer. In all, the
remains of 45 fetuses were recovered ... at least two of them, and probably
three, had been viable."
 
Baby
remains were stuffed into cabinets, jars, bags, plastic jugs, freezers, and the
basement for no medical purposes. One witness said a sink was plunged and a baby's
arm came out. Another report said a toilet had to be removed when a baby became
lodged in a pipe. 
 
In addition to performing illegal abortions, Dr. Gosnell ran an illegal
pill mill. The doctor of death is currently serving life plus 30 years.
DA: WEST PHILADELPHIA ABORTION DOCTOR
KILLED 7 BABIES WITH SCISSORS
6abc.com
 
Trial of abortion doctor Kermit
Gosnell reveals 'a house of horrors'
thelead.blogs.cnn.com
 
Despite the serial killing of babies, and massive amount of blood
Gosnell had on his hands, the RGI conveniently looked the other way. However,
another notable black doctor, who happens to be a retired neurosurgeon,
staunchly  exact, s that red
neirosurgeon nother notable doctor. pro-life, and practitioner of the
Hippocratic Oath wasn't extended the blind eye treatment. This doctor is Dr.
Ben Carson, and he was called a coon on social media by RGI member Anthea
Butler. Interestingly, Gosnell has yet to be called a coon for what
he did for more than thirty years but Dr. Ben Carson was name-called because
his racial-authenticity wasn't validated by the self-appointed gate keepers of
"blackness." Anthea Butler, a black Ivy League professor and Black Lives Matter supporter tweeted,
"If only there was a 'coon of the year' award" in response to Dr.
Ben Carson's belief that people have the right to display Confederate flags on
private property.

Grievance professor's tweet about Dr. Carson
 
Black professors such as Walter E. Williams and Thomas Sowell are also
likely considered coons since they're not RGI stockholders. However, the irony
is that Dr. Carson saved people whereas Dr. Gosnell killed people, babies
specifically. Even so, Gosnell was never called a coon or anything close to the
derogative term. The RGI consistently supports black killers of blacks,
regardless of the victim's age or stage of life.
 
One
doctor practiced the Hippocratic Oath while the other practiced the Hypocritical
Oath











Fifty Shades of Gray... Freddie
Gray
"We must reject the idea that every time a law's broken,
society is guilty rather than the law breaker. It is time to restore the
American precept that each individual is accountable for his actions." - Ronald Regan
  With
2015 being a record year for homicides, shootings, and overall violence in
Baltimore, the "Charm City" is undoubtedly losing its charm. Nearly
ninety-percent of its homicides occurred via shootings, and the nonfatal
shootings skyrocketed more than seventy-five percent from 2014. In a
reactionary move, the cash-strapped city contemplated investing
in ShotSpotter — an expensive technology system designed to detect and
pinpoint gunfire leading to quicker police response —  but reneged saying
deployment would put a strain on other crime-fighting resources. Officials say
the problem is gun violence, when actually the problem is violent people 'with
guns' violence. Which is why Baltimore's 2015 crime spike was unparalleled
among the thirty largest U.S. cities. There were forty homicides in May,
twenty-nine more in June, and then forty-five in July — a record. Not only did
Baltimore — America's twenty-sixth largest city whose population is roughly
622,000 — match the homicide count of America's most populous city New York —
whose population is approximately 8.4 million — it unbelievably doubled New
York City's violent crime rate. Unsurprisingly, Baltimore is a mainstay on Forbes
top ten list of 'America's Most Dangerous Cities,' and
NeighborhoodScout's lists of 'Top
30 Highest Murder Rate Cities in the U.S'. and 'Top
100 Most Dangerous Cities in the U.S.' With its one-in-sixteen chance
of becoming a victim of either violent or property crime,   NeighborhoodScout.com 
gave Baltimore a ranking
of three out of a hundred (one hundred being the safest), which means that
Baltimore is considered safer than only three-percent of American cities.
Adding insult to injury, Baltimore is home to two of the worst
neighborhoods in the country, according to NeighborhoodScout.com. W.
Mulberry St./N. Fremont Ave. is the nation's worst
neighborhood and Druid Hill Ave./ Laurens St. is the seventh worst. One's
chances of being victimized in those areas within a year are one-in-eleven and
one-in-twelve respectively. Even the white hipsters have to consider those odds
before gentrification.
Deadliest year in Baltimore history
ends with 344 homicides
baltimoresun.com
 
Realize that 2015's record-setting violence, carnage, and dysfunction
occurred in a 63% black city with blacks occupying the top positions — including a black congressman.
Hundreds of black lives were extinguished by the same melaninated menaces, yet;
only one black life mattered above all. And flags in the hood will forever fly
at half-mast in his memory: Freddie Gray, the fairest victim of them all.

Baltimore = Kryptonite
The Folk Hero
  Once upon a time in Baltimore, an angel — personified as a man —
dwelled amongst the urbanites. The urbanites were a tribe indigenous to Baltimore
and many other American inner-cites. The urbanites clashed with the enforcers.
The enforcers were a tribe who wore blue uniforms and enforced a code of
conduct that was conducive for a civilized society to thrive. Because the
urbanites observed their own set of laws, they had enmity towards the enforcers
for their law enforcement ways. However, not all members of the urbanite tribe
were rebellious, but those who weren't rebellious usually protected the
urbanites that were rebellious, and even made excuses for their fellow
tribesman's transgressions. In other words, the sheep protected the wolves. The
angel who dwelled amongst the urbanites was one of those defiant tribesmen, and
repeatedly violated the laws that governed civilized society. When discovered
by the enforcers, they apprehended and allegedly crucified him for all to see.
After his crucifixion, the urbanites were restless. As a result, the
civilization that the enforcers zealously protected immediately felt the wrath
of his tribe. Civilized society was turned inside out; the urbanites shaped the
city into their image and likeness — which is what the
angel who appeared in the form of man wanted all along. The
End.
Folklore Ends,
Truth Begins
  BLM paints Freddie Gray in one shade: victim.
However, this young man's lengthy rap sheet (twenty cases with five pending when he died) revealed the
other shade: career criminal. Despite the fact that he was an urban cancer, his
alleged demise by cop was an automatic qualification for the BLM benefits
package — which included sanitization of his
image and life. Dr.
Jamal Bryant, pastor of a Baltimore megachurch, and prominent member of the
Black Clergy, lead the charge to propagate the romanticized narrative of
Freddie Gray. Pastor Bryant declared,
"Freddie Gray is a symbol for so many of us in this city and in this
community of what it means to be a young black man, trying to fight up against
what seems to be insurmountable odds." So, according to the Pastor, Freddie
Gray is a symbol. A symbol? A symbol
like the artist formerly known as Prince? Oh, so that's why the drug
dealer formerly known as Freddie Gray is BLM's symbol (This would be funny if
it weren't true). In reality, Freddie Gray is simply a symbol of the
occupational hazards associated with drug-dealing, and the black community's
unwillingness to dispose of its garbage. BLM cites his death as an example of a
supposed endemic problem of police brutality in the city, but a cursory view of
2015's crime demonstrates that the city isn't suffering from
police brutality; it's suffering from criminal brutality. Even after his death
in April 2015, homicides topped thirty or forty a month for five of the next
eight months. At year's end, Baltimore had averaged more than a killing a day,
with more than ninety-percent of the victims being black males, and more than
half between the ages of eighteen and thirty. Hey Pastor, had Freddie Gray been
killed by a black hand like the other ninety percent of victims, what would've
he symbolized then? Nothing, except the usual apathy and hypocrisy expressed
towards black victims of black perpetrators.
• 3/3/15:   Malicious destruction of
property, second-degree assault
• 1/20/15: Fourth-degree burglary, trespassing
• 1/14/15: Possession of a controlled dangerous
substance, possession of a  controlled dangerous substance
with intent to distribute
• 1/31/14: Possession of narcotics with intent
to distribute
• 12/14/14: Possession of a controlled
dangerous substance
• 1/31/14: Illegal gambling, trespassing
• 1/25/14: Possession of marijuana
• 1/28/13: Distribution of narcotics, unlawful
possession of a controlled dangerous substance, second-degree assault,
second-degree escape
• 1/13/12: Possession of a controlled dangerous
substance with intent to distribute, unlawful possession of a controlled
dangerous substance, violation of probation
• 1/16/08: Possession of a controlled dangerous
substance, possession with intent to distribute
• 1/28/08: Unlawful possession of a controlled
dangerous substance
• 3/14/08: Possession of a controlled dangerous
substance with intent to manufacture and distribute
• 2/11/08: Unlawful possession of a controlled
dangerous substance, possession of a controlled dangerous substance
•
8/29/07: Possession of a controlled dangerous substance with intent to
distribute
•
3/20/15: Possession of a Controlled Dangerous Substance with intent to
distribute distribute, violation of probation
•
8/28/07: Possession of marijuana
• 8/23/07: False statement to a peace officer,
unlawful possession of a controlled dangerous substance
•
7/16/07: Possession of a controlled dangerous substance with intent to
distribute, unlawful possession of a controlled dangerous substance (2 counts)
 
During my brief human experience, I've learned that fallibility is a
prerequisite of our existence: accept the flaws, and grow from them. I did, and
will continue to do so. With that said, Gray's rap sheet illustrates that the
only thing he changed was arrest dates. 
Criminal Haven
  The Sandtown-Winchester/Harlem Park area of Baltimore
where Freddie Gray lived and operated his pharmaceutical enterprise is a
criminal haven; a petri dish of lawlessness.  Its homicide rate is
actually higher than Baltimore's homicide rate, so even by B-more's
subterranean quality of life standards; Sandtown-Winchester/Harlem Park is
ground zero. It's another hood where police have to deal with career criminals
who know their lawful rights better than their unlawful wrongs. It's an area
where "disrespect" led to seventeen
shots to the body and one to the head of twenty-seven-year-old Gregory
McFadden. The Baltimore City
Health Department found  that residents of Sandtown-Winchester/Harlem Park
were more than twice as likely to be killed than Baltimore residents overall,
and that same ratio exists with nonfatal shootings. Due to its astronomical
crime rate, cops are disproportionately engaged there, thus creating the
phenomenon of Sandtown-Winchester/Harlem Park having the most residents in
state prison than any other census tract in Maryland. Additionally, those 458
inmates cost the state $17 million a year to incarcerate according to the
Justice Policy Institute and Prison Policy Initiative. Freddie Gray's alleged
nickel ride incident cost taxpayers 6.4 million in settlement money by itself.
Even so, whether dead or alive, criminals are costing society more than they're
worth. 
 
Report: Sandtown-Winchester leads
state in number of people incarcerated
baltimoresun.com
 
The insanity of Baltimore's
'disrespect' killings
articles.baltimoresun.com
Mum is The
Word
 
During the Baltimore tsunami that followed Freddie Gray's death, and
caused millions
in damages, many people were surprised with Mayor Rawlings-Blake's decision
to grant the rioters/looters space to destroy. She stated,
"[w]e also gave those who wished to destroy space to do that as well. And we
worked very hard to keep that balance and to put ourselves in the best position
to de-escalate." Her acquiescence wasn't surprising. After all, the
mayor simply responded to the criminality in the traditional manner the black
community does for its violent subculture — give them space... our space. However,
it was surprising that she publically acknowledged the tactic because the black
community is usually mum about its non-disclosure agreement with its criminals.
The homicide rate in urban America is as high as the national debt because
no-snitching is a way of life. If one wants to learn how to "get away with
murder," there's no need to watch the television show of the same name;
instead, go to Baltimore. Marilyn Mosby, the black State's Attorney, called
Baltimore the "home of witness intimidation, where the 'Stop
Snitching' mentality began." Even with the abundance of surveillance
cameras, and advancement of forensic science, detectives hold steadfast that
witnesses are the most significant component in successfully bringing charges
against a suspect. Although Baltimore police have identified hundreds of
shooting suspects in 2015, the lack of community tips have led to few arrests.
Consequently, the rate for cleared or closed homicide cases plummeted to
roughly thirty percent, while suspected urban terrorists remained in the
community. According to The Baltimore Sun:

 "The closure rate is
so low that detectives grouse that the year shouldn't even be counted. One
likened it to baseball's steroid era, when players used performance-enhancing
drugs to rewrite the record book. They say this year's homicide numbers should
be marked with an asterisk: The Freddie Gray era."
Murder witness tells detectives
victim 'wouldn't want me to say a thing'
baltimoresun.com
   Frighteningly,
many of Baltimore's homicide victims were shot in broad daylight, oftentimes in
the street, while others were collateral damage from urban terrorists'
crossfire. Some fatalities occurred from bullets randomly fired into crowds,
and almost two dozen victims were children, many of them toddlers. Yet, mum was
the word. Even a year after three-year-old McKenzie Elliott was killed during a
drive-by while playing on her porch, the case
remains cold. "Everyone was outside, so I know someone knows
something," McKenzie's mother told WBAL. In the summer of 2014, McKenzie
was among five victims — all black — murdered over the course of three days,
and no one has been charged. At the time of the tragedy, a neighbor spoke to
the local media and prophesized this present-day reality. He declared,
"No one's going to talk. No one's going to say anything
and you can't blame them because once they do, their
family is in jeopardy. No one wants to lose their kids or their loved
ones so no one's going to talk." Investigators believe there are people in
the neighborhood who know who's responsible but are refusing to come forward.
If only little McKenzie's killers weren't black thugs, she would've qualified
for BLM's benefits package and received national support. History has shown
that combatting the "no-snitch"
culture isn't a priority for BLM or RGI. That's why the NAACP had a mock
funeral for the n-word, but not a mock funeral for the no-snitch mentality,
or any other actual detriments to the black community — such as the thugs who
deliberately personify the "N-Word."
McKenzie
Elliott's Murderer Remains at Large, One Year Later
patch.com

McKenzie's family
celebrated her fourth birthday at her grave site
The Unsung
Hero
  A
black criminal subculture has a monopoly on inner-cities across America. The
hood is its asylum to operate with impunity. As a gesture of appreciation,
the criminals may sometimes perform acts of altruism such as, providing turkeys
on Thanksgiving, sponsoring basketball tournaments, or even "making it rain" at
local strip clubs. In the hood, this is how a criminal and community liability
becomes a hero, while a true hero and community asset like Kendal Fenwick is
treated like a hero sandwich.
Freddie
Gray Empowerment Center opens
wtop.com

Empowering what? Criminality? Like its namesake?
  Kendal Fenwick, a
twenty-four-year-old Baltimore father of three, was a martyr who died while fulfilling
his natural responsibility: protecting his children. Not only was he protecting
his kids, his courageous act was a preemptive strike against the human cancer
that plagues urban America. 
 
  In attempt to prevent neighborhood drug
dealers from going back and forth through the yard of his northwest Baltimore
rowhome, Mr. Fenwick erected a fence. The move upset the drug dealers,
but they continued to violate his space. Fed up, Mr. Fenwick confronted the
dealers in front of his home. It cost him his life.
"He
was cooking for the kids," recalled his children's mother. "He told the children that
it was firecrackers so they wouldn't... and my son heard them. They were
in the closet. They heard him crying for help. That's the worst thing
in the world." 
  Setting
aside any fear for his own life, police believe Fenwick's final act was to save
the lives of those children.
"...when he was
chased by these cowardly killers, he chose not to run back in his house because
the three kids were in the house.  So he ran around the side of the yard
and they caught up with him and they executed him," said Police Commissioner
Kevin Davis.
  For all intents and
purposes, Kendal Fenwick's story should be referenced for inspiration by
hostages in every "hood," but since he shared the same pigmentation as the
human cancer that ultimately snatched his life, his death won't be deemed
worthy of a recreation center or a center of any kind, including being the
center of attention. An honorable man murdered in cold blood by dishonorable
menaces, whose only connect to any type of honor is when they're addressing a
judge in court, "I dindu nuffin yo' honor."
Police
call murder victim Kendal Fenwick a 'model citizen'
abc2news.com

Didn't meet
qualifications to have a rec center named in his honor
 











The Congressional Black Caucus
"If pigs could vote, the man with the slop bucket would be
elected swineherd every time, no matter how much slaughtering he did on the
side." - Orson Scott Card
  The
Congressional Black Carcass Caucus is the legislative arm of the Race
Grievance Industry, and represents roughly ten percent of the House of
Representatives and about a fifth of the Democratic minority. Established in 1970,
the Congressional Black Caucus calls itself "the conscience of Congress." 
Today, the "Conscience of Congress" does nothing more than beat
victimology into Congress' head until Congress becomes unconscious.
 
Originally founded in 1969 as a "Democratic Select Committee"
by a group of black members of the House of Representatives, the
organization was renamed as the Congressional Black Caucus in 1971. Although
the CBC is officially non-partisan, it's a democrat stronghold —
correction... black democrat stronghold. When white liberal Congressman Steve
Cohen pledged to his sixty-percent black district in Tennessee that he'd apply
for CBC membership, the CBC made it crystal clear that
membership entrance was based on pigmentation not applications. While the
bylaws of the caucus do not make race a prerequisite for membership, the
consensus of the caucus is that it should remain exclusively black. Even though
Representative Cohen introduced and championed a House
Resolution that apologized for "the
enslavement and racial segregation of African-Americans," the CBC only saw
color and not his commitment to people of color. "Mr. Cohen asked for
admission, and he got his answer. ... It's time to move on," said
Rep. William Lacy Clay, Jr., D-MO., son of Rep. William Lacy Clay
Sr., D-MO., a co-founder of the caucus. "It's an unwritten rule. It's
understood. It's clear." Steve Cohen wasn't the first white democrat
denied membership. Politico.com reported that Rep. Pete Stark, D-Calif., tried
in 1975 when he was a sophomore representative, and the group was only six
years old.
"Half my Democratic constituents were
African American. I felt we had interests in common as far as helping people in
poverty," Stark said. "They had a vote, and I lost. They said the
issue was that I was white, and they felt it was important that the group be
limited to African Americans." For a group that touts itself as being
passionate fighters for black interests, they're apparently more passionate
about fighting for a separate existence.
Black Caucus: Whites
Not Allowed
politico.com
#BlackVotesMatter
  As
the top-ranking black politicians in America, CBC members truly understand that
#BlackVotesMatter. "Black voters count, and they can make the difference. I
want them to know that," said
former Congressional Black Caucus head, Rep. Emanuel Cleaver (D-MO.) — in
reference to the CBC's "Voter-Protection" tour that featured free concerts for
its voting bloc. The guaranteed method to secure the black vote is through black-identity
politics. The black-identity politics — practiced by the CBC and many other
black politicians — license them to campaign on the concept that black
leadership will translate into black political power, and the acquired
political power will be used to properly address black issues neglected under
white leadership. Ultimately, black-identity
politics perpetuate an "us versus them" mindset that compliments the
victim mentality present amongst its constituency. 
  In Houston, black-identity politics even
allowed a white conservative Republican — running in an overwhelmingly black
democrat district — to unseat a twenty-four year black incumbent on the Houston
Community College Board of Trustees. The Houston
Community College board is composed
of nine members elected from single-member districts and serve six-year terms.
Dave Wilson, a white small business owner who knew that winning the second
district seat was a long-shot, told KHOU.com that he printed direct mail
pieces that strongly implied he was black. His fliers were decorated with
photographs of smiling African-American faces — which he readily admits he
simply lifted off websites — and captioned with the words, "Please vote for
our friend and neighbor Dave Wilson." The campaign was successful. Bruce Austin, the black
incumbent who was unseated by assumed black man Dave Wilson, called Davis'
campaign deceitful. "He never put out to voters that he was white,"
Austin said. "The problem is his picture was not in the League of Voters
(pamphlet) or anywhere. This is one of the few times a white guy has pretended
to be black guy and fooled black people."
 
White guy wins after
leading voters to believe he's black
legacy.khou.com
  Black-identity
politics also prevent the CBC from criticizing President Obama. The appearance
of racial solidarity trumps all racial dilemmas. Congresswoman Maxine Waters
(D-CA.) once confessed as much to a
Detroit crowd:
"We don't put pressure on the
president, let me tell you why. We don't put pressure on the president because ya'll love the president. You love the president. You're
very proud...to have a black man [in the White House] ...First time in the history
of the United States of America. If we go after the president too hard, you're
going after us."
 
Her colleague, Rep. Emanuel Cleaver (D-MO.), echoed her
sentiment. While discussing the abysmal unemployment numbers in the black
community with Root.com, Rep. Cleaver was asked if the black community gives
President Obama a pass because he's black. Cleaver confirmed what anyone with
at least one functioning eye could see. 
"Look, as the chair of the Black
Caucus I've got to tell you, we are always hesitant to criticize the president.
With 14
percent [black] unemployment, if we had a white president we'd be
marching around the White House."
  In
the rare occurrence that voters break ranks and question the CBC's agenda, the
CBC will step out of its bubble to place the sheep back into formation. Such
was the case at a 2014 CBC town hall meeting; Rep. Marcia Fudge (D-OH.) chided
the electorate for demanding more accountability from the CBC:
"I hope you will spend this much time
with your local elected officials. I guarantee you most people in this room
have not done that. With your school board, with your city council, and so then
you won't be calling me talking about somebody didn't come and pick up your
trash. You need to call your city council person for that. And I say it that
way because, I need you to understand we all have a role to play and the
Congressional Black Caucus cannot do it all by ourselves. Everybody has to do
their part...The Black Caucus fights for you every day. Even
when you won't fight for yourself. We fight for you. Whether it's immigration or education, whether it's food stamps or
housing, we fight for you everyday. So my message to
you is to contain your complaining." 
  In
other words, we fight to put foods stamps in your pocket and subsidized roofs
over your heads, so shut up and keep blindly voting for us. 
 
Because majority-black cities are more concerned with being bastions of black
political power instead of models for economic growth and prosperity, they've
instead become models of mayhem and dysfunction. At a 2002 NAACP conference,
Philadelphia Mayor John Street, who would eventually serve two mayoral terms,
boasted about the opportunities he'd given to blacks; how he'd hired a black
police commissioner, a black fire commissioner, a black finance director, a
black treasurer. "The brothers and sisters are running the city," he proclaimed, "Running it! Don't
you let nobody fool you, we are in charge of the City
of Brotherly Love." Among the ten largest cities, Philadelphia has highest deep-poverty
rate. Walter E. Williams, an esteemed economist and George Mason
University professor, addressed the pitfall of black-identity
politics.
"Let's
look at some of the strategy since the beginning of the civil rights movement.
The black power movement of the '60s and '70s held that black
underrepresentation in the political arena was a major problem. It was argued
that the election of more black officials as congressmen, mayors
and city council members would mean economic power, better neighborhoods and
better schools. Forty-three years ago, there were roughly 1,500 black elected
officials nationwide. According to the Joint Center for Political and Economic
Studies, by 2011 there were roughly 10,500 black elected officials, including a
black president. But what were the fruits?
 
By
most any measure, the problems are worse. There is the greatest black poverty,
poorest education, highest crime and greatest family instability
in cities such as: Detroit, St. Louis, Oakland, Calif., Memphis, Tenn.,
Birmingham, Ala., Atlanta, Baltimore, Cleveland, Philadelphia and Buffalo, N.Y.
The most common characteristic of these predominantly black cities is that, for
decades, all of them have been run by Democratic and presumably liberal
administrations. What's more is that in most of these cities, blacks have been
mayors, chiefs of police, school superintendents and
principals and have dominated city councils.
 
Political power has not lived up to
its billing."
Ignoring Urban
Terrorism
  Part
of the CBC's self-described goal is "positively
influencing the course of events pertinent to African-Americans..." If the
CBC's goal of "positively influencing the course of events pertinent to
African-Americans" were legitimate, then addressing the high crime rates in
many of its members' heavily black areas would be the utmost priority. The CBC
has nineteen
different task forces but none for the most pressing issue affecting black
communities: urban terrorism.
* Africa Task force
* Budget, Appropriations, and Taxation Task force
* Civil Rights and Judiciary Task force
* Diversity Task force
* Economic Development and Wealth Creation Task force
* Education and Labor Task force
* Education Reform Working Group
* Energy, Environment, and Agriculture Task force
* Foreign Affairs and National Security Task force
* Healthcare Reform Implementation Working Group
* Healthcare Taskforce
* Immigration Reform Taskforce
* Judicial Nominations Working Group
* Justice System Reform Working Group
* Poverty and the Economy Taskforce
* Prison Telecomm Reform Working Group
* Technology and Infrastructure Development
* Voter
Protection and Empowerment Working Group
  Like
clockwork, urban terrorism has ensured that black cities typically possess the
highest crime rates in America compared to other communities of all sizes -
from the smallest towns to the largest cities. Yet, even with statistical
evidence, most black legislators lack the fortitude and/or desire to address
this unflattering reality. Many cities within the CBC members' districts are
quintessential representations of black urban dysfunction, and mainstays on the
disgraceful list of America's most dangerous cities. Honestly, the CBC's
apathy
isn't surprising. After all, black thugs aren't criticized for the same reason President
Obama isn't criticized: black-identity politics. Skin folk are kinfolk...
except black conservatives. Furthermore, there's no political capital to be
gained from addressing black intraracial genocide — unless Willie Lynch,
racism, Post Traumatic Slavery Disorder (PTSD), or guns can be blamed. As a result, many of their districts will remain awash with urban
terrorism and designated as "no-go" zones. In 2015, Milwaukee, Baltimore, Washington,
D.C., New Orleans, and Kansas City saw their murder rate increase
double-digits.
Black Lives Matter Would Like To See
A Little More Help From Congressional Black Caucus
huffingtonpost.com
 
[Author's
Note: BLM recognizes that the CBC also practices the Hypocritical Oath and
thus, wants the CBC's help.]
Cleveland & Columbus, OH.
  Representative Marcia L. Fudge's Eleventh Congressional
District is 54% Black, and includes majority black populated Cleveland (53%), which Forbes magazine listed as America's eighth
most dangerous city in 2015 — with populations above 200,000. Cleveland ranked twenty-third
on NeighborhoodScout.com's list of America's
Most Dangerous Cities — with
populations over 25,000. With its crime index ranking of two
out of a hundred (one hundred is the safest), Cleveland is only safer than
two-percent of American cities. And within Ohio, more than 99% of the
communities have a lower crime rate than Cleveland. One's chance of becoming a
victim of either violent or property crime is one in fifteen.  Four
of the Top 100 Worst Performing Public Schools in the U.S. are
in Cleveland, including one named after George Washington Carver.
 
Experts struggle to explain rise in
Cleveland gun violence
bigstory.ap.org
 
During the first nine months of 2015, Cleveland saw a forty-percent
increase in homicides and a thirty-three percent rise in felonious assault
shootings (compared to the same period in 2014). Five children under the age of
seventeen were shot over the Fourth of July holiday weekend, and a four week
span in autumn produced three children, whose
combined ages only equaled eight and a half years, shot
and killed from drive-by shootings. A witness to the murder of three-year-old
Major Howard told Newnet5.com that gunshots were "normal"
in his neighborhood. "It's Cleveland," he elaborated, "You're
going to hear a lot of gunshots ... but to see a little boy get hit or a female
get hit, that's just different." 
Witness
to 3-year-old's murder calls gunshots 'normal'
newsnet5.com
 

5-month-old Aavielle,
3-year-old Major, & 5-year-old Ramon Burnett
  So,
what is Rep. Fudge's strategy to counter the harsh violence that occurs
year-after-year in her district? Well, she decided to use her
floor speech at the House of Representatives to disparage the police shootings
of black males, and cite the shootings as symptoms of America's pervasive
racism. "The fact that our country, the greatest country in the world,
remains mired in race relations issues in the year 2014 is an
embarrassment," decried Fudge. 
5 children shot in Cleveland over Fourth of July weekend;
at least 11 total people shot
newsnet5.com
 
Rep. Marcia Fudge decries Ferguson
and Cleveland police shootings in Black Caucus floor speech
cleveland.com

 Rep. Marcia L. Fudge (D)
  Representative
Joyce Beatty's Third Congressional District is 32% black and includes most of 28%
black Columbus, which faces the same bloody issues as its larger Cleveland
sibling. In Columbus, one's chance of becoming a victim of either violent or
property crime within a year is one-in-twenty, and with a crime index ranking of seven
out of a hundred (one hundred is the safest), Columbus
is only safer than seven-percent of American cities. Within Ohio, more than 95%
of the communities have a lower crime rate than Columbus.
16-Year-Old
Suspect Arrested In North Columbus Quadruple Homicide
10tv.com

Quadruple homicide victims: Michael Ballour,
41, Daniel Sharp 36, Angela Harrison, 35, Tyajah Nelson, 18
  Columbus' 2016 began with five homicides in
its first week. In 2015, blacks accounted for most of Columbus' homicide
victims and perpetrators. And two
of Columbus' twenty police precincts bore the brunt of 2015's ninety-nine
homicides. Approximately thirty-percent of
the city's homicides occurred in precincts that make up only 7 percent of its
population. Columbus' police
department is concerned about the city's climbing murder rate, especially among
those under thirty-years-old. In 2014, black males overwhelmingly made up
the largest group of the town's eighty-nine homicides — many of the victims
were under thirty years old. The trend hasn't changed.
 
Columbus Police Grow Concerned As
Murder Rate Climbs Among Those Under 30
10tv.com
 
Deadly start to 2016 in Columbus; 5 homicides in first week
nbc4i.com
  So,
who's responsible for black lives not mattering in Cleveland and Columbus? The
answer won't shock Reps. Fudge and Beatty; they already know that it is black
males, but their Hypocritical Oath and black-identity politics prevent honesty.

Rep. Joyce Beatty (D)
St.
Louis & Kansas City, MO.
 
Representative William Lacy Clay's First Congressional District includes
the majority black city of St. Louis (49%), which Forbes magazine recognized as
America's fourth
most dangerous city in 2015 with populations over 200,000. NeighborhoodScout.com ranked St. Louis third
on its 2016 list of Top 30 U.S. Cities with the highest murder rate — 25,000 or
more people, and twelfth
on its 2016 list of 100 Most Dangerous cities in America — with 25,000
or more people. Moreover, its crime index ranking is one
out of a hundred (one hundred is the safest), meaning St. Louis is only safer
than one-percent of American cities. One's chance of becoming a victim of
either violent or property crime there is one-in-twelve. Within Missouri, more
than 98% of the communities have a lower crime rate than St. Louis. 
  St. Louis' 2014
concluded with 159 homicides — leaving the city with a murder
rate of 50 per 100,000 residents, the worst in the nation for larger cities. Ninety-five percent of defendants
in 2014 were black and ninety-one percent were male — 55 percent were 25 and under. Furthermore, from January 2014 through
August 2015, ninety-percent of murder victims were black. Eighty-five percent
were male, and forty-eight percent were aged twenty-five and under. Its 2015 homicide count was
188; a significant increase for a city that already had a high homicide rate a
year prior.
 
2015 Was St. Louis' Deadliest Year in
Two Decades
riverfronttimes.com
 
A Riverfront Times analysis
of police data revealed a familiar pattern to inner-city police: the homicides
are clustered. Since 2008, about eighty-percent of homicides have occurred in
just a third of St. Louis' neighborhoods. Richard Rosenfeld, a
criminologist at the University of Missouri-St. Louis who regularly consults
with city police, was surprised when he recently crunched the numbers from 2000
through 2014 according to the article. He found that half of St. Louis' violent
crime was concentrated on just five-percent of city blocks. My bet is that one
of those blocks included N.
Newstead Avenue/Cote Brilliante Avenue, which NeighborhoodScout.com listed as the fourteenth most
dangerous American neighborhood in 2015.
ST.
LOUIS: 6-YEAR-OLD HEART PATIENT KILLED IN DRIVE-BY SHOOTING AT O'FALLEN PARK
inquisitr.com

6-year-old Marcus Johnson Jr. was shot and
killed over a "traffic dispute." A week earlier, he underwent heart surgery and
had a post-operation check-up scheduled on his fatal day.
  A St. Louis police
officer posted a vivid account of his encounter with critically wounded Marcus
Johnson Jr. at Children's hospital. The sympathetic officer wrote (via 'Don of all Trades'
blog):
We arrived at the Children's Hospital Emergency Room at the
same time. He and his partner parked and I pulled up to their left and did the
same. I got out of my car and watched as the officer hurried from his seat and
opened the back, driver's side door. When the officer grabbed the boy from the
back seat of his police Tahoe, I knew almost instantly. There was a split
second though, before instantly I guess, where I
didn't know. For that split second, the officer looked like any dad grabbing his
sleeping boy from the car and putting the boy's head on his shoulder to carry
him inside to sleep comfortably in his own bed. For that split second, it was a
sweet moment. The officer, an around fifty year old white guy, clutched the
little boy over his left shoulder gently, but with a clear purpose. The boy was
small, a black child with his hair in corn rows and dressed as a typical five
or six-year-old dresses. He reminded me of my own six-year-old son. The sudden,
pained look on the officer's face and the fact that the boy wasn't crying or yelling or doing anything other than appearing to
be asleep made the split second fantasy fade away fast. We hurried into the
emergency room where we were met by the trauma team and hospital staff. I'm
always in awe at how these emergency room doctors and nurses
and staff are so able to get to working on a patient so fast. There was some
sliver of hope that the boy would make it, at least that's what we all wanted
to believe. The truth, and I think we all knew it, was that this boy would
never fall asleep in his own bed again. When the officer laid the boy down on
the gurney and stood back upright, any wind that may have been in my sails
quickly faded to nothing. His shirt said it all. Where the boy's little heart had
laid so close to the officer's own heart, was a mess that told us things would
not end well.

The officer who carried
6-year-old Marcus.  Cops > Politicians
  So, what is
Congressman's Clay's strategy to counter the unforgiving violence that occurs
year-after-year in his district? Well, marching for Mike Brown should suffice. Right?

Rep. Clay posted this picture on his website
with caption, "Marching for justice for Michael Brown
and his family in Ferguson. MO"

Rep. Wm. Lacy Clay (D)
 
Representative Emanuel Cleaver's Fifth Congressional District encompasses
Kansas City, which is 29.9% black. NeighborhoodScout.com
ranked Kansas City thirty-fourth
on its 2016 list of 100 Most Dangerous Cities in America — with 25,000
or more people. Moreover, its crime index ranking is four
out of a hundred (one hundred is the safest), meaning Kansas City is only safer
than four-percent of American cities. One's chance of becoming a victim of
either violent or property crime there is one- in-sixteen. Within Missouri,
more than 94% of the communities have a lower crime rate than Kansas City.
Additionally, K.C. has the twenty-third
most dangerous neighborhood in America — Brush Creek Blvd./Prospect
Ave. — according to NeighborhoodScout.com's
list of Top 25 Most Dangerous Neighborhoods in America.
Kansas
City man kills 2 teens then allegedly shoots his baby for crying
kctv5.com

The victims: Bianca
Fletcher, 1-year-old Joseph, Shannon Rollins Jr.
  In 2015, Kansas City experienced 109
homicides, making it one of the deadliest years in recent history. According to
Kansascity.com, September was a particularly
bad month with twenty deaths, including the shooting deaths of a south Kansas
City teenage mother, her one-year-old son, and eighteen-year-old boyfriend. The
final number of homicides in September was one short of the city's most deadly
month, when twenty-one people were killed in August 2008. Young people between
the ages of seventeen and twenty-four were the most prevalent victims,
constituting forty-percent of those killed and unsurprisingly, black males
constituted the largest number of homicide victims: sixty-three percent. In
October 2015, police reported that at least sixteen children were murdered
since the previous October. Shootings killed many of the children, who ranged
from six weeks to sixteen-years-old, in their homes, on their neighborhood
streets or walking beside their parents. Including, ten-year-old Machole "Coco" Stewart, who was shot
in the head while watching the World Series with her family, after a gunman
sprayed 20 bullets into the house. Following the tragedy, her grandmother
expressed to KCTV the need for more outrage about black-on-black violence. (Eureka moment indeed!)
"They are killing our kids and nobody cares about
it. It's just vigils, balloons let go. Why not get out here and rally? We are
having black-on-black crime killing each other but then when a Caucasian kills
an African-American everybody wants to go rally, everybody wants to go march. Why not rally, why not march while they are killing
our kids."
A local
pastor urged those with information to speak to the authorities.
"Those who know
what happened, those who were involved, I know some of you are in the room
right now. You know who it is. You know who done it."
Machole Stewart's murder is still unsolved. 
Slain
girl's grandmother: Where is outrage?
kctv.com
 
1 year later, Machole
Stewart's family still searching for answers as police search for killer
fox10tv.com
 
2015 was Kansas City's deadliest year for homicides since
2011
kansascity.com

Coco Stewart
loved school and dancing
  So, who's responsible for black lives not
mattering in St. Louis and Kansas City? The answer won't shock Reps. Clay and
Cleaver; they already know that it's black males, not Darren "The Gentle Giant
Slayer Wilson, and his co-conspirators. Nonetheless, the Congressmen's
allegiance to the Hypocritical Oath and black-identity politics prevent
honesty.

Rep. Emanuel Cleaver (D)
Detroit, MI.
  There are two hells in Michigan. One is a
tourist attraction (Hell, Michigan)
and the other is Detroit, although Flint with its 71%
increase in homicides from 2014 to 2015 receives an honorable mention. The 13th and 14th Congressional Districts have been redistricted,
but still include much of Detroit (83% black). These districts are
represented by John Conyers, Jr. and Brenda Lawrence respectively. Expectedly,
for the third consecutive year, Forbes magazine recognized Detroit as America's
most dangerous city — with populations over 200,000 people.
NeighborhoodScout.com ranked Detroit fifth
on its 2016 list of Top 30 U.S. Cities with the Highest Murder Rates —
25,000 or more people — and third
on its 2016 list of 100 Most Dangerous Cities in America. Moreover, its
crime index ranking
is two out of a hundred (one hundred is the safest), meaning Detroit is
only safer than two-percent of American cities. One's chance of becoming a
victim of either violent or property crime there is one-in-fifteen. Within
Michigan, more than 99% of the communities have a lower crime rate than
Detroit. The "Motor City" is also home to the tenth
(W Warren Ave. / McKinley St.) and sixteenth
(Trumbull St./Lincoln St.) most dangerous U.S.
neighborhoods —
according to NeighborhoodScout.com's Top 25 Most Dangerous Neighborhoods in
America. One's chances of becoming victimized in those areas are
one-in-thirteen and one-in-fourteen respectively.
 
America's Most Dangerous Cities:
Detroit Can't Shake No. 1 Spot
forbes.com
 
Although seven people were killed over the 2015 Labor Day weekend,
Detroit's 295 homicides in 2015 were actually an improvement
from  the 299 homicides in 2014 — the year its police chief called upon
law-abiding citizens to arm themselves against criminals. The Ninth Police
precinct, located on Detroit's east side, recorded forty-six homicides
— the most of any precinct. 
7-year-old
killed, 8-year-old wounded in Steel Street shooting
fox2detroit.com

An argument between two baby mamas over their shared
baby daddy lead to 7-year-old Chanel being killed when her house was sprayed
with bullets
  So,
who's responsible for black lives not mattering in Detroit? Detroit Police
Chief James Craig knows the answer. In fact, after forty-seven gunshots were fired
at a crowd off 400 people gathered at a Detroit basketball court (injuring
eleven and killing one spectator), he accurately called them out as "urban terrorists." Of course, Reps. Fudge and Beatty already know
it's the "urban terrorists," but their Hypocritical
Oath and black-identity politics prevent honesty. 
Detroit
Police Chief James Craig defends 'urban terrorist' comment
mlive.com
 
Reps. Brenda Lawrence (D) & John Conyers,
Jr. (D)
Newark & Trenton, NJ.
  Representative Donald M. Payne,
Jr.'s 10th Congressional District includes majority black Newark (52%),
also called "Brick City" because of its numerous brick housing projects.
Newark is New Jersey's largest city, and was once known as the "car theft capital of the world."
It has
long been one of the state's most dangerous cities, and ranked fourteenth
on NeighborhoodScout.com's 2016 list of Top 30 U.S. Cities with the Highest
Murder Rates — 25,000 or more people — and fifty-first
on its 2016 list of 100 Most Dangerous Cities in America. Moreover, its crime
index ranking is
eleven out of a hundred (one hundred is the safest), meaning Newark is only
safer than eleven-percent of American cities. One's chance of becoming a victim
of either violent or property crime there within a year is one-in-twenty-four.
Relative to New Jersey, Newark has a crime rate that is higher than 95% of the
state's cities and towns of all sizes. "Brick City" is also home to the eleventh
most dangerous U.S. neighborhood — Lincoln St./Court
St. — according to NeighborhoodScout.com's Top 25 Most Dangerous
Neighborhoods in America. One's chances of becoming victimized in that area
are one-in-thirteen.
 
Newark
Boy, 3, Is Fatally Struck by Suspect's Car in Police
Chase
nytimes.com
[Article's Quote: "This area is very prone to car stealings,
carjackings. It's real bad, real bad, this area," said Rahmere's
grandmother.]

3-year-old Rahmere Tullus died carrying his new Spider-Man book bag
  In 2015, Newark saw a surge in violence,
including five killings over two days in August. Those slayings prompted city
officials to take 115 police officers off desk duty and send them out to patrol
the city's streets. 
 
Homicides and Shootings Both Up in
Newark in 2015
wsj.com
  So, who's responsible
for black lives not mattering in Newark? The answer won't shock Rep. Payne Jr.;
he already knows that it is black males, but the Hypocritical Oath and
black-identity politics prevent honesty.

Rep. Donald M. Payne, Jr. (D)
  Not
to be outdone by its bigger sibling, New Jersey's capital city of Trenton (52%
black), which falls into Representative Bonnie Watson Coleman's Twelfth
Congressional District, ranked ninth
on NeighborhoodScout's 2016 list of Top 30 American Cities with the Highest
Murder Rate — 25,000 or more people. Additionally, Trenton placed forty-ninth
on its 2016 list of 100 Most Dangerous Cities in America.  Moreover, its crime
index ranking is
fifteenth out of a hundred (one hundred is the safest), which means that
it's only safer than fifteen-percent of American cities. The chance of becoming
a victim of either violent or property crime in Trenton is one-in-twenty-eight.
Relative to New Jersey, Trenton has a crime rate that is higher than 91% of the
state's cities and towns of all sizes. In 2015, Trenton's murder
rate was more than twice that of major U.S. cities such as Philadelphia and
Chicago. Also, its practice of urban omerta remained consistent with other
major and minor-sized inner-cites. Trenton's East Ward Councilwoman, Verlina
Reynolds-Jackson, acknowledged the self-inflicted crisis:  "[t]his attitude of not snitching
is really what's hurting us. People know who commits these crimes, and we have
a plethora of ways for citizens to provide anonymous tips. The best thing we
can do is report the violence."
Teenager
murdered in Trenton Friday night
trenton.homicidewatch.org
 

16-year-old Jah'vae Minney's 2015 death was
Trenton's third murder within a week
 
So, who's responsible for black lives not mattering in Trenton? The answer
won't shock Rep. Watson; she already knows that it is black males, but the
Hypocritical Oath and black-identity politics prevent honesty. 

Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (D)
Chicago,
IL.
 
Representative Bobby L. Rush's First Congressional District includes
much of the South Side of Chicago and once had the highest percentage of
African American residents of any Congressional District in the nation until it
was redistricted in 2013. Presently, the district maintains a 51.3% black
majority. Representative Robin Kelly's Second Congressional District is
predominantly black (55.5%), and includes sections of Chicago. Representative
Danny K. Davis' Seventh Congressional District also has a black majority
(54.6%) and includes parts of Chicago. Interestingly, blacks only make up a
quarter of Chicago's populace, yet these three CBC member's districts are
majority black. Even so, Chicago consistently has enough murder to cover all
their districts.
  The nation's third largest city recorded
fifty-one homicides in January 2016, the highest toll for the month since at
least 2000, and 241 shooting incidents — more than double the 119 incidents
recorded January 2015. By 2015's end, the 468 homicides were a 12.5% increase
and 2,900 shootings jumped 13% than the prior year. NeighborhoodScout.com
reports that the chance of becoming a victim of either violent or property
crime in Chicago (within a year) is one-in-twenty-five. Relative to Illinois,
Chicago has a crime rate that is higher than 94% of the state's cities and
towns of all sizes. Furthermore, it possesses the twenty-fourth
most dangerous American neighborhood — S. Pulaski Rd./W.
Adams St. — as listed on NeighborhoodScout.com's
Top 25 Most Dangerous Neighborhoods in America. One's chances
of being victimized in that area are one-in-seventeen. In this diverse city
where blacks, whites, and Latinos each roughly represent a third of the
population, only one group consistently represents the "die" in diversity. 
 
Police: "Significant"
increase in Chicago murders, shootings in 2015
cbsnews.com
  So,
who's responsible for black lives not mattering in Chicago? The answer won't
shock Reps. Rush, Davis, and Kelly; they already know that it's not racist
police but black males. Nonetheless, the Hypocritical Oath and black-identity
politics prevent honesty. Actually, Rep. Kelly has already answered the
question about the cause of violence in her 2014 report. And naturally, she
blames guns and not violent people with guns. In her
2014 report, "Gun Violence in America," she focused on
blacks who died by guns and noted that they (blacks) accounted for fifty-five
percent of the national gun murder victims. "If
New Orleans were a country, it would be the second deadliest nation in the
world, with a gun murder rate of 62.1 per 100,000 citizens. Detroit's murder
rate mirrors El Salvador," the report said. "Chicago is a carbon copy of
Guyana. Washington, D.C., our nation's capital, has a higher gun homicide rate
than Brazil — a nation that has long experienced high crime rates stemming from
narcotics trafficking and other violent gang activity." Calling it gun
violence is as asinine as calling it bullet violence.
  
L to R: Reps. Bobby Rush
(D)     Danny Davis (D)      Robin
Kelly (D)
Milwaukee, WI.
  Representative
Gwen Moore's Fourth Congressional District encompasses the majority black city
of Milwaukee (40%). For several years, Milwaukee ranked among the ten most
dangerous large cities in the United States. In fact, Forbes magazine
recognized Milwaukee as America's sixth most
dangerous city in 2015 — with populations over 200,000. NeighborhoodScout.com
ranked Milwaukee fifteenth
on its 2016 list of 100 Most Dangerous Cities in America — with 25,000
or more people. Moreover, its crime index ranking is three
out of a hundred (one hundred is the safest), which means it's only safer than
three-percent of American cities. One's chance of becoming a victim of either
violent or property crime here is one in 16. Within Wisconsin, more than 98% of
the communities have a lower crime rate than Milwaukee. Furthermore, it
possesses the eighteenth
most dangerous American neighborhood — W. Clybourn St. / N. 27th St. — as
listed on NeighborhoodScout.com's Top 25 Most Dangerous Neighborhoods in
America. One's chances of being victimized in that area within a year
are one-in-fourteen.
Teen
remembered in vigil as wave of violence hits Milwaukee
jsonline.com

A Facebook dispute over a girl led to the
shooting death of 14-Year-Old Tariq Akbar by a 15-year-old boy 
  In 2015, Milwaukee recorded 145 homicides,
not including six fatal shootings that were ruled self-defense, or the death of
a man who suffered heart failure after a robbery. According to the Journal
Sentinel, Milwaukee's 2015 homicide tally was almost a 69% increase from 2014. Additionally, this
year-to-year growth was higher than the headline-grabbing spikes of violence
reported in Baltimore, St. Louis and Washington, D.C. Milwaukee's Police Chief, Edward Flynn, cited a few factors for
the city's mounting homicide toll including a subculture within the city that
affirms the use of deadly violence to achieve status. In parts of Milwaukee,
the sound of gunfire is so commonplace that about 80% of gunshots detected by
ShotSpotter sensors — an expensive technology system designed to detect
and pinpoint gunfire leading to quicker police response — aren't even called
into police by residents, Flynn said.
 
Latest homicides push Milwaukee total
to highest in a decade
jsonline.com
 
Homicides soar in
Milwaukee, along with many theories on cause
jsonline.com
  In 2014, Chief Flynn became a notable figure when he
ranted (in part): 
"The greatest racial disparity in the
city of Milwaukee is getting shot and killed. Hello! Eighty percent of my
homicide victims every year are African-American. Eighty percent of our
aggravated assault victims are African-American. Eighty percent of our shooting
victims, who survive their shooting, are African-American...."
  The rant was in response to armchair
activists attacking the police chief and department for a white officer killing
a black male, meanwhile these same activists ignored the killing of a
five-year-old girl shot in a drive-by while sitting indoors on her grandfather's
lap. Two months later, thirteen-month-old "Baby Bill" Thao was shot and killed
while playing with Legos on a floor. Darmequaye
Cohill, a drug-dealing urban terrorist, whose first name characteristically
reads like a handful of random letters grabbed from a Scrabble pouch, fired
forty-one shots at the wrong house in a dispute with another drug-dealing urban
terrorist. Even so, the armchair activists' vitriol remains reserved for
Milwaukee's Finest. 
 
Milwaukee Police Chief Flynn's take
on crime, racial disparities goes viral
jsonline.com
 
In 2016, nine-year-old Za'layia Jenkins approached officers
on foot patrol in her neighborhood and asked why were they there. The officers
replied that they walked the neighborhood to help keep it safe. The inquisitive
nine-year-old then asked if they could keep her safe. Approximately a week
later, little Za'layia was shot while watching television when a bullet from a
shootout between urban terrorists pierced a wall of her home. More than forty shell casings were recovered from the crime
scene. "Sadly, that question was
answered tonight," Chief Flynn said after "Lay-Lay" (as she was
affectionately called) was shot. Tragically, this
innocent girl — who also jumped rope
with one of officers a week earlier — died from her head wound a day before her tenth birthday. 
9-year-old girl who was struck by errant bullet in home dies
jsonline.com
 

Lay-Lay's
family said she was energetic and always smiled
So, who's responsible for black lives not
mattering in Milwaukee? The answer won't shock Rep. Moore; she already knows
that it's not racist cops, but black males. Nonetheless, the Hypocritical Oath
and black-identity politics prevent honesty.
 
Rep. Gwen Moore (D)
New Orleans & Baton Rouge, LA.
 
Representative Cedric Richmond's Second Congressional District contains
nearly all of the majority black city of New Orleans (60%) and stretches west
and north to the majority black city of Baton Rouge (54%). The Baton Rouge area
was picked up because of redistricting in 2010. NeighborhoodScout.com ranked
New Orleans seventh
on its 2016 list of Top 30 U.S. Cities with the Highest Murder Rates —
25,000 or more people, and
twelfth on its 2016 list of 100 Most Dangerous Cities in America.
Moreover, its crime index ranking is five
out of a one hundred (one hundred is the safest), which means it's only safer
than five-percent of American cities. One's chance of becoming a victim of
either violent or property crime within a year is one-in-nineteen. 
Relative to Louisiana, New Orleans has a crime rate that is higher than 86% of
the state's cities and towns of all sizes.
New
Orleans violence claims men, women, children -- even babies
in utero: Jarvis DeBerry
nola.com
 
 
Days before due date, parents were killed when
urban terrorists shot up car  
  New Orleans, a
city of about 380,000, also known as the "Big Easy" easily maintains a
per-capita murder rate that's one of the highest in the country. Since
2010, almost a thousand people have been murdered there. Its 2015 homicide
count eclipsed that of 2014, and included a deadly stretch of seven murders
within an eight-day span. The city's festive vibe is constantly threatened by a
far-reaching vibe of violence. In fact, Leon Cannizzaro, Orleans Parish
District Attorney determined that the city was being dominated by "urban
terrorists," and implored Governor Bobby Jindal to deploy state troopers.
Evidently, the New Orleans Police Department — like many other police
departments — isn't equipped to handle urban terrorism.
2015 homicide total exceeds last year's after eastern New
Orleans double shooting
nola.com
Orleans
DA blasts Jindal, says 'urban terrorists' in his own backyard
fox8live.com
 
Baton Rouge has also secured a spot on NeighborhoodScout's Top 30
American Cities with the highest murder rate — 25,000 or more people. It is
number twenty-nine,
and one's chance of becoming a victim of either violent or property crime
within a year is one-in-eighteen. Within Louisiana, more than 89% of the
communities have a lower crime rate than Baton Rouge. Moreover, its crime index
ranking is
four out of a one hundred (one hundred is the safest), which means it's only
safer than four-percent of American cities. Fifty-percent of 2015's homicide
victims were black males age 15 to 35.  The police clearance rate for the
Baton Rouge police department was an abysmal 45 percent.
Pregnant
woman shot, killed in Baton Rouge; unborn child delivered at hospital
foxnews.com

Brittney Mills was shot and killed in her home. Her unborn
baby died a week later
  So, who's responsible for black lives not
mattering in New Orleans and Baton Rouge? The answer won't shock Rep. Richmond;
he already knows that it's not racist cops but black males. Nonetheless, the
Hypocritical Oath and black-identity politics prevents honesty.
 
Baton Rouge homicides rise in 2015,
an uptick after two years of decline
theadvocate.com 

Rep. Cedric Richmond (D)
Indianapolis,
IN.
  Representative André Carson's
Seventh Congressional District encompasses Indianapolis, which was 2015's tenth
most dangerous city with a populace over 200,000 according to Forbes. Its 2015
murder rate for every 100,000 residents was even higher than Chicago's murder
rate for every 100,000 residents. Thus, NeighborhoodScout.com ranked
Indianapolis twenty-ninth
on its 2016 list of 100 Most Dangerous Cities in America — with 25,000
or more people. Moreover, Indy's 2015 crime index ranking was
three out of a one hundred (one hundred being the safest), which means that
it's considered safer than only three-percent of American cities. One's chance
of becoming a victim of either violent or property crime within a year is
one-in-sixteen. Relative to Indiana, Indianapolis has a crime rate that is
higher than 99% of the state's cities and towns of all sizes.
 
'It's like a war zone': Indy records
its deadliest year in 2015
indystar.com
As reported by the Indy
Star:
A
homicide the night of Sept. 19 broke the hearts of nearly all who heard the
tale.
That
was the night 10-year-old Deshaun Swanson was fatally shot while attending a
memorial service with his mother and 11-year-old brother.
The family was paying their final
respects to an elderly woman when shots rang out. Three other people were hurt
in the shooting, and Swanson died later that night in the hospital.
  Less than a year after his death, residents
of this crime-plagued neighborhood held a safety and rally march to celebrate two-hundred
days without a homicide. In actuality, the murder-less milestone was more
of a testament than achievement. Even so, I applaud the hostages for finally
fighting their captors.  

10-Year-Old DeShaun Swanson
  So,
who's responsible for black lives not mattering in Indianapolis? The answer
won't shock Rep. Carson; he already knows that it's not racist cops, but black
males. Nonetheless, the Hypocritical Oath and black-identity politics prevent
honesty.

Rep. André Carson (D)
Jackson, MS.
 
  Representative Bennie Thompson's
Second Congressional District is the only majority-black district in the state,
and includes most of the super-majority black (79%) city of Jackson. Of
Mississippi's ten largest cities, only seven report their crime statistics to
the FBI for the twice-yearly Uniform Crime Report. Jackson, the state's capital
and largest city, reports their crime stats each year. Jackson ranked eleventh
on NeighborhoodScout.com's 2016 list
of Top 30 American Cities with the Highest Murder Rate — 25,000 or more
people, and seventy-sixth
on its 2016 list of 100 Most Dangerous Cities in America. Moreover, its ranking is two
out of a hundred (one hundred being the safest), which means that Jackson is
considered safer than only two-percent of U.S. cities. One's chance of becoming
a victim of either violent or property crime within a year is one-in-fourteen.
Relative to Mississippi, Jackson has a crime rate that is higher than 98% of
the state's cities and towns of all sizes. 
 
FOX 40 Investigates: How dangerous Is
Jackson?
msnewsnow.com
 
[Article's Quote: "[T]he Capital City also had the fourth-highest murder
rate in the country, when using the same criteria."
  So,
who's responsible for black lives not mattering in Jackson? The answer won't
shock Rep. Thompson; he already knows that it's not racist cops but black
males. Nonetheless, the Hypocritical Oath and black-identity politics prevent
honesty.

Rep. Bennie Thompson (D)
Birmingham,
AL.
 
Representative Terri A. Sewell's Seventh Congressional District encompasses
super-majority black (73%) Birmingham. Forbes lists Birmingham as the fifth
most dangerous American city in 2015 — with populations over 200,000. NeighborhoodScout.com ranked Birmingham twenty-fifth
on its 2015 list of Top 30 U.S. Cities with the Highest Murder Rates —
25,000 or more people, and twelfth on its 2016 list of 100 Most Dangerous
Cities in America. Moreover, Birmingham's crime index ranking is one
out of a hundred, which means it is considered safer than only one-percent of
American cities. One's chance of becoming a victim of either violent or
property crime within a year is one-in-twelve. Relative to Alabama, Birmingham
has a crime rate that is higher than 98% of the state's cities and towns of all
sizes. Birmingham's 2015 homicide count increased fifty-five percent
from 2014, making 2015 the city's deadliest year since 2008.
Birmingham, Jefferson County end 2015
with dramatic rise in homicides
al.com
  Frustrated with
Birmingham's violence and the black clergy's apathy, Reverend Michael Jordan
vented to AL.com: 
"Our
young black men are dying. I think it gets too much attention when a white
policeman kills a black male, but it gets no attention when it's black on black
murders."
Birmingham pastor's
public prayer: 'Lord, please stop blacks from killing blacks'
al.com
 
Consequently, the concerned reverend attempted to rally black pastors
and leaders by posting stark messages on his church's marquee. One side of the
marquee read, "Lord Please Stop Blacks From Killing Blacks," while the flipside read, "Young Black Males Must Respect Authority."
 
Mission impossible: Rev. Jordan stated that he didn't receive one call
from black pastors or leaders
  So,
who's responsible for black lives not mattering in Birmingham? The answer won't
shock Rep. Sewell; she already knows that it's not the ghost of Bull Connor or
racist cops, but black
males. Nonetheless, the Hypocritical Oath and black-identity politics
prevent honesty.

Rep. Terri A. Sewell (D)
Philadelphia,
Pa.
 
Representative Chaka Fattah's Second Congressional District, which he has
represented since 1995, includes much of majority black (43%)
Philadelphia. Affectionately called the "City of Brotherly Love," the brotherly
love nowadays is the kind of love that Cain showed Abel. Philadelphia was once
the murder capital of America and earned the moniker "Killadelphia." Presently,
one's chance of becoming a victim of either violent or property crime within a
year is one-in-twenty-three. Relative to Pennsylvania, Philadelphia has a crime
rate that is higher than 95% of the state's cities and towns of all sizes.
Moreover, its crime index ranking is ten
out of a hundred (one hundred is the safest), which means it's considered safer
than only ten-percent of American cities. Furthermore, it possesses the twenty-fifth
most dangerous American neighborhood — N. 15th St./W. Dauphin St. — as listed
on NeighborhoodScout.com's Top 25
Most Dangerous Neighborhoods in America. One's chances of being victimized
in that area within a year are one-in-seventeen. In this city, where one's zip code
sets life expectancy, eleven-year-old Christian O'Hara told expressed to philly.com
that he thinks endlessly about bullets:
The 11-year-old says that when he hears gunshots in Fairhill, North Philadelphia, he feels painful pressure in
his belly. "And," the soulful, dark-haired boy adds, "I know if
a bullet hits me, it will feel worse than my stomach does."I
feel stressed and scared, always. It needs to stop."
  Only half of
Philadelphia's 2015 homicides (52%) were solved —national average is 64% —
despite the city's twenty-thousand dollar reward for anyone who offers
information that leads to the arrest and conviction of a murderer. Police cite
the persistent "stop snitching" culture as an undeniable factor for
its low homicide clearance rate. Ten
of the Top 100 Worst Performing Public Schools in the U.S. are in
Philadelphia, including Martin Luther King High (Oh, the irony), Philadelphia
Learning Academy (Learning what?), and John Bartram High (A school where daily
assaults on staff caused a principal to quit). 
 
PHILADELPHIA VIOLENT CRIME RATE ON
THE RISE
6abc.com
 
With
half of 2015's murders unsolved, effect of Philly cash rewards is questioned
newsworks.org
  The
Germantown section of Philadelphia, founded by German Quakers and Mennonites in
1683, has some of the country's best-maintained historic landmarks, districts,
cobblestone streets, and buildings from the colonial era. Many of these
structures, including the home where George Washington stayed to escape Yellow
Fever, remain open to the public.  Germantown is also the birthplace of
America's anti-slavery movement and home to the first bank of the United
States. 
  But
what does all this wonderful Germantown history mean to the average Germantown
citizen?  Nothing.  Today's Germantown is a
shadow of its former self and has a victimization rate that rivals small
cities. It desperately needs the German Quakers and Mennonites to return. 
 
History remembers that on October 4, 1777, the colonials attacked
British units that were housed in Germantown and 'The Battle of Germantown'
ensued. Understandably, history won't remember the modern day battle that's
occurring in Germantown because it's not against the Redcoats... it's against
the hoodies.

Today, it's "The hoodies are coming...the
hoodies are coming!"
  So, who's responsible for black lives not
mattering in Philly? The answer won't shock Rep. Fattah; he already knows that
it's not racist cops but black males. Nonetheless, the Hypocritical Oath and
black-identity politics prevent honesty. However, this career politician is
presently focused on his own troubles over those related to his constituency.
He's currently facing a 29-count indictment for participation in a racketeering
conspiracy and other crimes, including bribery; conspiracy to commit mail, wire
and honest services fraud; and multiple counts of mail fraud, falsification of
records, bank fraud, making false statements to a financial institution and
money laundering. His son, Chaka Fattah Jr. — known as "Chip" — was
recently found
guilty on 22 of 23 counts of tax and bank fraud and sentenced to
five years in prison. Did the apple fall far from the tree?
 
Congressman Chaka Fattah and
Associates Charged with Participating in Racketeering Conspiracy
justice.gov
 
 
Chaka Fattah Jr. Sentenced to Five
Years, Taken Into Custody
phillymag.com
 
[Author's
Note: The congressman's son began
prison sentence immediately after sentencing.]

Rep.
Chaka Fattah (D)
 











#BlueLivesMatter
"A society that makes war against its police had better
learn to make friends with its criminals." - Unknown
  Growing up in the inner-city, I vividly
remember 'Cops and Robbers' being our favorite pastime. The simplicity
of the game — cops represented "good," criminals represented "bad" — reinforced
the notion of law and order as a pillar of civilized society. Nowadays, the game
of cops and robbers is played differently in the inner-city; the robber is the
protagonist while the cop is the antagonist. This backwards dynamic is a
reflection of police being treated as an occupying force while criminals are treated
as allies, all because urban America generally views society as a racist
quagmire. 
  For example, in Jackson (Mississippi), which
is seventy-four percent black, Ward 3 councilman Kenneth Stokes proposed a
unique crime fighting method for his constituents. He suggested using rocks,
bricks, and bottles. However, the recommendation wasn't to use those items
against the criminals, but against police from other jurisdictions who chased
misdemeanor suspects through Jackson. The councilman claimed that police from
surrounding cities put Jackson's children in danger whenever they chase people
on neighborhood streets. He also stated:
"What I suggest is we get the
black leadership together, and as these jurisdictions come into Jackson we
throw rocks and bricks and bottles at them. That will send a message we don't
want you in here," he says.
  With
the potential support of black leadership, this sworn official of Jackson is
essentially fighting to give criminals safe passage. This criminal-advocate's
rationale unintentionally clarifies why Jackson is number eleven on
NeighborhoodScout's lists of Top 30 Cities with the Highest Murder Rates and
100 Most Dangerous Cities in the U.S.A. Despite having a one-in-fourteen
chance of victimization by either violent or property crime within a year, and
possessing a crime rate that's lower than only two-percent of other 
Mississippi communities, the councilman still feels that having more criminals
in Jackson is better than having more police.
Jackson Councilman
says' Let's throw rocks at police'
nbc12.com
  In West Memphis (Arkansas), which is ranked
number sixteen
on NeighborhoodScout's list of "100 Most Dangerous Cities in the U.S.A," and
where one's chances of being victimized through violence or property crime
within a year are one-in-fourteen, the notion of emulating Jackson's usage of "rocks,
bricks, and bottles" for self-preservation is primitively naive. Instead,
the local NAACP wants West Memphis' 63.5% black populace to arm
themselves.  This city, whose crime rate is higher than ninety-seven
percent of Arkansas' other cities, is suffocating from urban terrorism. The
routine murder of black men didn't sit well with Shabaka
Afrika, head of the Crittenden County NAACP, and Hubert
Bass, CEO of the Crittenden County Justice Commission. So, they called a news
conference. However, this news conference wasn't called to address the urban
terrorism in West Memphis; it was called to address to the shootings of black men by white officers across the
nation.
"We're
asking that black people around the country arm themselves and join and
establish gun clubs," Bass explained. Afrika expressed, "Law enforcement has to
understand, you cannot do what you please when you see us." 
 
Reportedly, the motion was centered on self-defense, protecting the
black community, and making sure West Memphis does not become another Ferguson.
But
judging by its crime rate, West Memphis is on its way to becoming another Baltimore or Detroit.
Naturally, the R.G.I doesn't mind that harsh reality — as long as whites can be
blamed.
West Memphis NAACP wants black
families to arm themselves
wtoc.com
 
Local leaders want black community to
arm themselves
wreg.com
 
According to the FBI's 2015 Uniform Crime Report, Cincinnati (Ohio), the
"Queen City," had a murder
rate of 20.16 per 100,000 residents, Chicago, in comparison, had a murder
rate of 15.09 while New York City's murder rate was 3.93 per 100,000.  One's chances of
becoming a victim of either violent or property crime within a year in Cincy are
one-in-fifteen. And within Ohio, more than ninety-eight percent of the
communities have a lower crime rate. Consequently, NeighborhoodScout has
designated Cincinnati
as one of the "100 Most Dangerous Cities in the U.S.A." Obviously,
certain residents of the "Queen City" aren't behaving royally these days. This
forty-five percent black city once had two separate shootings interrupt a peace
march. And of course, the collective angst wasn't directed towards Cincy's
wrongdoers, it was somehow re-directed towards Cincy's right-doers. National
Review columnist Heather McDonald captured this urban phenomenon:

"In Cincinnati, a mini-riot broke out
when police arrived at the scene of a drive-by shooting on July 30. The drive-by's victims included a four-year-old girl, who was shot in
the head. According to an eyewitness, bystanders shouted profanities at the
cops, who had started arresting people on outstanding warrants to prevent a
retaliatory shooting. The press was assiduously silent about the anti-police
chaos. Arrests in other cities, from Baltimore to Los Angeles, can be equally
fraught. The four-year-old Cincinnati victim was the second child seriously
wounded that month in the city. On July 5, another drive-by left a six-year-old
girl paralyzed and partially blind." 
  I
can't think of a place where cops are needed more than in the inner-city. Yet,
the boys in blue (police) are treated worse than those other
boys in blue (Crips).
Anti-violence march
marred by 2 shootings
cincinnati.com
The Anti-Cop
Sentiment 
 
Although the RGI is the architect, BLM and its media allies are the
driving forces behind today's anti-cop climate; ignoring the
normality of black-on-black homicide to chase the anomaly of blue-on-black
homicides. This BLM-induced avalanche of
destructive propaganda — such as cops are hunting black men — is demonstrably
false, but still has effectively appealed to peoples' emotions instead of
critical thinking. Even grievance author/journalist Ta-Nehisi Coates, the
resurrected James Baldwin to the pro-blacks and current darling of white
liberals, revealed his deep-rooted contempt for police in his book, "Between
the World and Me." He had this to say about the
uniformed heroes who died responding to the September 11th,
terrorist attacks: 
"They were not human to me. Black,
white, or whatever, they were menaces of nature; they were the fire, the comet,
the storm, which could — with no justification — shatter my body."

A Kentucky student created this painting for a
high school project and according to a teacher, was a good example how "racial
violence has evolved."
 
Patrisse Cullors, a co-founder of Black Lives Matter, wants to further
capitalize on this deception by building a national network of communities to
respond to law enforcement violence. She has already received a $500,000
"racial justice grant" from Google to help make her scheme a reality.  KQED
news highlighted Cullors' initiative:
 "We know what to do
if an earthquake happens in California. People know what to do if a tornado
happens. But what happens when your loved one is killed by the police? When your
loved one is killed in a jail cell?" Cullors says.
 
"We
don't know what to do. We've seen it time and time again.
Families are at a loss. They don't know who to talk to, they don't know who to
go to because, you don't go to your murderer to have
them give you justice."
 
Black
and brown communities can't rely on law enforcement to protect black and brown
bodies, says Cullors.
 
"If
your loved one is harmed or killed by law enforcement, if they're illegally arrested,
if there's a raid on your home, you will be able to call a hotline number that
will be staffed 24/7 that can help you navigate the system."
 
What
makes her idea different is that the rapid responders will be people who live
in the community and understand what it's like to face law enforcement violence
firsthand.
 
"It
will be a multiracial justice team. Allies can definitely play a role. But
really the point is people who are directly impacted, and that often looks like
black and brown people, and poor people."
 
She imagines the first responders
could help victims file a complaint against the police. And if the complaint
isn't getting attention, they could help stage a protest in the neighborhood or
organize to demand that the officer is fired.
  The article neglected to mention that BLM
doesn't have an established hotline number for urban residents who've been
victimized by black thugs — which is far more probable. Oh, I guess those
residents will have to continue to use the number that already exists... 911.
Certainly, BLM uses it.
 
Black Lives Matter Co-Founder's Plan
to Reduce Law Enforcement Violence
ww2.kqed.org
  The seemingly ubiquitous axiom that cops are
racists has led to this age where non-compliance during police engagement is an
encouraged strategy e.g. Eric Garner and Freddie Gray. Undoubtedly, the motive
is financial since filing frivolous civil suits against cops for a financial
settlement has become a new lottery system. However, confrontation instead of
compliance will continue to lead to fatal consequences, and that's what BLM
gleefully envisions.
The Other White Meat
 
Historically, pork has been the other white meat, but in this anti-cop
atmosphere, white officers have become the other white meat — and they're
always ripe for consumption. BLM's anti-cop chants have evolved from —
"What do we want? Dead cops. When do we want it?
Now!" and "Pigs in a blanket, fry 'em like bacon" — to actual black-on-blue violence. A 'kill
them' before they 'killed us' mentality is in effect. And like black-on-black crime, black-on-blue
crime is ignored and even excused.
Video Shows NYC
Protesters Chanting for "Dead Cops"
nbcnewyork.com
 
Black Lives Matter organizer stands by
group's chant to cook police officers like 'pigs in a blanket' and 'fry 'em
like bacon'
dailymail.co.uk
"Putting Wings
on Pigs" 
  In
December 2014, Ismaaiyl Brinsley, a 28-year-old BLM supporter and proud thug,
had an insatiable appetite for the other white meat. So, he went hunting.
Before leaving the house, he posted his intentions on Instagram — a social network. This hunting trip
would be in retaliation for the deaths of Eric
Garner and Michael Brown. The menace to society, whose nineteen
arrests spanned multiple states, wrote:
"I'm Putting Wings On
Pigs Today. They Take 1 Of Ours...... Let's Take 2 of Theirs #ShootThePolice #RIPErivGardner #RipMikeBown This May
Be My Final Post ********** I'm Putting Pigs In A Blanket"
  Two
witnesses told police that Brinsley approached them on the street in Brooklyn,
asked if they had gang affiliations, told them to follow him on Instagram, and
then said, "Watch what I'm going to do." Shortly thereafter,
Brinsley ambushed New York Police Department officers
Rafael Ramos and Wenjian Liu while they were eating lunch inside their
patrol car outside a Brooklyn housing project. He fired four shots through the
passenger side window killing them both then fled to a nearby subway station,
where he cowardly shot and killed himself. 
Post #3 is from
Ismaaiyl Brinsley: "We Don't Respect The Pigs, That's Why The Camera Is His (Sic) In His Face.
And Turn The Music Up When He's Talking"
Post #4 is from a
sicko supporter: "Ismaaiyl Brinsley is forever
a hood hero ...this nigga will never be forgotten...RIP homie"
 
 

Should've
Killed More Cops?
 
The
family of 23-year-old Melvin Santiago remembers his dream of becoming a cop.
Through hard work, focus, and commitment, his dream materialized. Knowing the associated risks, he wanted to work the West
District of Jersey City, also known as the "Wild, Wild West." Santiago's stepdad, who raised him from age
nine, asked the young cop if he feared dying on the street. "Well," the
officer replied, "at least if something happened to me, being a cop, at
least I go for a good cause." Unfortunately, something did happen to him;
something tragic that prevented him from reaching his one year anniversary. The
rookie officer was ambushed and executed by Lawrence Campbell, an urban
terrorist who also had a dream — a dream of becoming famous by killing cops.

  Shortly after 4 a.m., Officer Melvin Santiago
and other patrol units responded to a report of an armed robbery at a 24-hour
Walgreens drugstore. The store, which has a security guard because of the
area's high rate of crime, is only blocks from a notoriously crime-ridden,
gang-infested neighborhood. Unbeknownst to the officers, Campbell had beaten
and stabbed the store's security guard, before stealing his gun during the
assault. The urban terrorist then waited outside for police arrive. While
waiting, he inexplicably apologized to a customer for his criminality in the
store, and then announced, "Watch the news later, I'm going to be famous!"
  When
the cops arrived a few minutes later, Campbell quickly unleashed a barrage of
bullets, leaving a string of thirteen holes across the windshield of officer
Santiago's patrol car. Santiago, who was wearing a bulletproof vest, was killed
before he could even exit the vehicle. He was shot in the head with what
turned out to be the security guard's 9mm semi-automatic weapon. Officers returned fired hitting Campbell multiple times.
He was pronounced dead at the scene.
A
witness said that Campbell had no plans to rob the store; he wanted to kill
police so that he could become famous. 

Officer Santiago's cruiser
  Admittedly, part one of Campbell's kamikaze
mission was successful, but would his final despicable act make this career
felon — who was also wanted for questioning regarding a recent Jersey
City homicide — famous as he envisioned, or infamous?
  Only
in the "hood" would a certified savage like Campbell be glorified, which is why
a sidewalk shrine featuring an assortment of lit candles, balloons, and empty
liquor bottles was created in his honor. The memorial's main attraction was
duct taped to a wall above the candles and liquor bottles — two white
Tee-shirts bearing handwritten messages from supporters. Some of the words of
encouragement were, "REAL NIGGAZ DONT DIE," "FOREVER A 'G,' "SEE U ON THE
OTHER SIDE," "GONE BUT NOT FORGOTTEN," "REST EASY," and "THUG IN PEACE."
Ironically, the shrine was illegally erected under a conspicuous sign that
implicitly stated in capital letters, "PRIVATE PROPERTY, NO TRESPASSING, NO
GATHERING, JCPD" Just as Campbell ignored laws while living, the
mourners fittingly ignored the law to honor his death.
 
The urban terrorist was correct... he became famous
 
  At
the impromptu memorial, the dead thug's wife told local reporters that she only
wished her husband had killed more officers before they gunned him down.
"If that's the case, he should've took more with him. If they was
going to stand over my husband and shoot him like a f---ing
dog, he should've took all of them the f--- out. Sorry for
the officer's family. That's, you know, whatever. But, at the end of the
day, [Lawrence] got a family, too. All they care about is the officer. That's
how I feel. God forgive me, but that's how I feel." 
  She
later tried to retract some of her words, saying, "I do apologize. I was very angry." But she still maintained her
criticism of the cops, complaining, "They called an ambulance for the
officer — why didn't they call an ambulance for Lawrence?"
Man who executed rookie cop: 'I'm
going to be famous'
nypost.com
 
 
Disgust at cop-killer's memorial
BIGGER than shrine to officer he shot - as his widow says she wishes he'd
killed MORE police
dailymail.co.uk
 
Cop killer's widow rages: He
should've killed more cops
nypost.com
It's the Cop's
Fault?
  Call
me old-fashioned, but I'm a staunch believer that family cookouts shouldn't end
with shootouts against cops. Evidently, twenty-five year old, career-criminal
Major Davis Jr. thought differently — which best explains his decision for
bringing an AK-47 type rifle to the post-Fourth of July gathering.
 
When Indianapolis police responded to a call about a man with a gun, and
shots being fired in the vicinity, they arrived to find Davis wielding a rifle.
Officials said Davis Jr. was "obviously upset." After refusing
orders to put down the gun — that was pointed at Officer
Renn — a three to five minute gun battle ensued;
leaving Davis Jr. critically wounded, and Officer Perry Renn dead. Indianapolis
Metropolitan Police Department Chief Rick Hite wondered how a family cookout
could turn so deadly. Chief Hite pondered: 
"Why would he be in
that area, at that time, at that cookout with that weapon?" Why wasn't he
joining the rest of his family and the rest of the community in the spirit of
peace?"
 
The family neglected to answer that valid question during a WISH-TV
News 8 interview; instead, they made excuses for the thug's actions, and
even blamed police.
The family of Major Davis Jr., the man accused of killing
Officer Perry Renn, is speaking out about the shooting. His aunt, cousins and his children's grandmother all talked to 24-Hour
News 8 on Sunday afternoon.
 
The family is still struggling to accept that Davis Jr. could
be a part of something like this. He is a father with four children, ages 10
and under.  His family has had a long, tense history with Indianapolis
police officers.
 
"You don't know what he been through with IMPD. We do. He's
scarred for life," said his children's grandmother, Pam Moornan.
 
The Davis family's history with police began with Major Davis
Sr. He served at least three years on a drug conviction and was arrested again
in 2003 for public intoxication.
 
He died of a heart attack in police custody when Davis Jr.
was a young teen. Though the coroner's report said the officers weren't at
fault for any fatal injuries, the family still holds officers responsible.
 
"He wasn't a bad person. His father was killed by IMPD. That
is enough to hurt a person and scar him for life," said Moornan.
 
One of the officers listed in that 2003 police report is
Officer Perry Renn.
 
"I imagine he figured they were going to try and kill him. I
mean cause look what they did to his father," said
Moornan.
 
On Saturday night, the family says they were having a
cookout.
 
"Next thing, I just heard shots and everybody running in the
house and everybody hit the floor," said Yvonne Moornan, Davis Jr.'s aunt.
 
By the time they got outside, they realized those shots were
Davis Jr. and Officer Renn shooting at each other. Davis had an assault rifle.
 
"Major is not a bad person in spite of what happened. Things
happen," said Pam Moornan.
 
Now, the Davis family is worried about their son's reputation
and again, questioning police tactics.
 
"It's horrible about what took place, but, I mean, I don't
think it's fair though for them to keep dragging him through the mud," said
Moornan.
 
And again, questioning police tactics.
 
"I don't know how the police was shooting. I don't know if
they took concern of any kids running around," said Yvonne Moornan.
 
The family did say it is
sorry for Officer Renn's family, but they said the tragedy may
have been avoided if Officer Renn would've stayed at his car since he could see
Davis had a gun.
 
Blaming officers despite the facts is a BLM-inspired attribute. It's
asinine.  Evidently, the concept of accountability is lost upon the
family. Some say it's victim-blaming. No, it's not victim-blaming! Davis Jr.
isn't the victim; Officer Perry Renn is the victim.
Murder
suspect's family speaks out about shooting
wishtv.com
 
Officer Perry Renn 
  As
previously mentioned, BLM has also inspired a new wave of litigiousness. While
waiting on trial for Officer Renn's murder — in which prosecutors want the
death penalty — Davis Jr. filed a federal lawsuit against the late officer and
others for $2.3 million dollars, claiming "excessive deadly force"
was used against him. Additionally, he, according to the claim "has
been and will continue to be irreparably injured by the misconduct of the
defendants," and alleges that the injuries resulted in neurological
and digestive problems that caused him to be confined to a wheelchair. Davis
Jr., who is representing himself, claims Officer Renn shot him eleven times at
close range as he walked unarmed in an alley to his van. He alleges that
there's no evidence he was armed during the encounter. In the complaint,
he also stated that fireworks were going off at the time, and they "added
to the confusion." 
 
There's a reason why the old adage, "He who represents himself has a
fool for a client" maintains validity. This
fool actually claimed that he wasn't armed! In spite of the ballistics, his
girlfriend's frantic 911 call saying, "The police just shot my
(expletive) boyfriend" and "They shot each other," and the
most damning piece of evidence of all; Officer Renn is dead! Major Davis Jr. is
a major idiot, but rational according to BLM standards.
Accused killer of IMPD officer Perry
Renn sues cop for $2.3 million
indystar.com
Shooting Police is OK?
 
  In
Milwaukee, a woman was sitting in a car waiting for her brother when a thug
jump inside the vehicle, put a gun to her neck, and then demanded the car keys.
She told the gunman that she didn't have the keys (she was sitting in the
passenger's seat). He responded, "I want all the money or I'm going to shoot
you." She immediately surrendered her wallet and he exited the
vehicle. Less than a week later, officers were investigating a burglary when
this same urban terrorist jumped into a stolen vehicle that was under
surveillance. As he commenced to drive, officers approached the vehicle "effectively
blocking it from moving — drew their weapons — and ordered the
defendant to stop and surrender," according to the police report. The thug
refused to comply and ran from the scene. While being chased, he pulled out a handgun
and fired several shots at the officers in pursuit. Detective Jeffrey Griffin
was wounded and hospitalized with "significant internal injuries." A
massive, all-night manhunt ensued — with the cop shooter's name and face
prominently highlighted by the local media. The Milwaukee K-9 unit found him
hiding in a friend's basement closet, under a pile of debris. It's appropriate
that trash would hide amongst trash. He was taken into custody without
incident.

Det. Griffin was also shot in 1999 as a
Milwaukee patrolman
  Colleen Henry, a WISN 12 News reporter,
interviewed the head of the home to find out why the fugitive was allowed to
stay there. "He's a good friend of ours. I'm not going to throw him down.
I'm not going to throw him to the wolves," said Stephanie King, who added
that she's known the cop shooter since he was little; he's friends with her
kids. She also confirmed that she saw his picture on television that
morning.  "And did you say you better get out of here?" the
reporter asked. "No, I did not," King
responded. "And they didn't arrest you or anything for harboring a
fugitive?" asked the reporter. "No, cause I ain't harboring no
fugitive," King replied.  "Cause to me, he didn't do no wrong. He
just shot a cop and then everybody come around when they shoot the cop, but
when the cops shoot people do they come around?" King said.
  There will always be friction between those
who enforce the law and those who break the law. But when members of the
community steadfastly fight for criminals, the criminal element wins while the
community loses. 
Man
accused of shooting Wauwatosa detective charged with armed robbery
wisn.com
 
Deal reached: Najee Harmon pleads
guilty in shooting of Wauwatosa detective
fox6now.com
PC Politics > Police
  Many
police departments and politicians have decided to pacify the Race Grievance
Industry at the expense of public safety. For example, after the Michael Brown
and Eric Garner grand jury decisions, Philadelphia's mayor at the time, Michael
Nutter, created an eight-minute video lecture for police
officers. During the video, Mayor Nutter urged officers to build trust with
community members, and use force only when "absolutely necessary." For three
consecutive days, Philly's Finest were mandated to watch his condescending
video before hitting the urban streets of "Killadelphia," where no-snitching is
gospel, and cops are typically viewed as a nemesis. 
 
During a week's span in 2013, the Philadelphia Police department
experienced seven
police-involved shootings that resulted in the deaths of four culprits.
Despite the fact that six of those shootings involved gun-toting suspects and
the seventh involved a knife-wielding man who charged at officers,
Philadelphia's mayor had no desire to make a video urging citizens to comply
with police commands. As an alternative, the police brass humiliated its
frontline cops by publically apologizing for the deadly outcomes. Such
political correctness and appeasement exhibited by the police brass only
empowers felons like Isaac Carmichael, whose encounter with the Philadelphia
Police occurred a week after the department expressed remorse for the previous
seven shootings.
 
Carmichael, who had three previous convictions, including two for
firearms violations, and fits the description of an urban terrorist as defined
in my book The Un-Civil War, fired at a woman and
her companions on a busy street for rejecting his advances. Officers in the
vicinity chased
Carmichael, who then fired shots at them during the
pursuit. Amazingly, he was apprehended without police returning fire, and
no officers or civilians were injured. The police brass was quick to tout this
encounter as an example of police restraint. Cops are now expected to blow
kisses at armed threats instead of blowing them away.
More PC
Madness
 
Blacks and Muslims are amongst groups treated as a protected class. Any
negative comment about them in any capacity is political suicided for public
officials in liberal-controlled cities. So, imagine the quandary faced by
Philadelphia's newly elected Mayor Kenney — who was barely a week into his
first term — when a black Muslim shot an unsuspecting
cop on patrol. 
  On a
January 7, 2016, Officer Jesse Hartnett was on routine patrol when a black man
dressed in a white, long-sleeved tunic — traditional Muslim garb — walked
towards the marked cruiser at the crosswalk appearing to ask for directions. It
was a ploy. The perp pulled out a 9mm gun and unleashed 13 shots at the sitting
duck officer. Surveillance camera footage showed him continuing to fire as he
reached inside the lowered driver's side window. Officer Hartnett was hit
three times, but managed to exit his patrol car and return fire at the suspect
— hitting him three times. "Shots fired!...
I'm bleeding heavily!" the injured officer shouted over the radio.
"I'm bleeding. Get us another unit out here!" Officers quickly
swarmed to his location and apprehended the shooter a block away; the smoking
9mm Glock 17 that can hold 17 rounds in a standard magazine was still in his
possession. Turns out, it was a stolen police firearm. 

4-year veteran Officer Jesse Hartnett
  The black Muslim confessed to the crime and declared, "I
follow Allah. I pledge my allegiance to the Islamic state, and that's why I did
what I did." Police Commissioner Ross said the perp believes that the
police defend laws that are contrary to the teachings of the Quran. When asked
about the shooting at a news conference, Mayor Kenney responded:
"In no way shape or form
does anyone in this room believe that Islam or the teaching of Islam has
anything to do with what you've seen on the screen. It is abhorrent. It is terrible
and it does not represent the religion in any way, shape or
form or any of its teachings. This is a criminal with
a stolen gun who tried to kill one of our officers. It has nothing
to do with being a Muslim or following the Islamic faith." 
  The short version of this story: Muslim
shooter says, "I'm a terrorist for ISIS."
Mayor forcefully responds, "No you're
not! You're a disenfranchised minority suffering from post-traumatic slavery
disorder! This incident is not your fault... It's society's fault!" #BlackMuslimVotesMatter
Cops: Suspect Says He Shot Officer In Name Of
Islam
philadelphia.cbslocal.com
 
Mayor Kenney On
Officer Shooting: 'It Has Nothing To Do With Being Muslim'
philadelphia.cbslocal.com
 
 
The Black Muslim approached the cruiser and
fired 12 shots
  In 2012, the city of Omaha
unfathomably accounted for nearly 80% of Nebraska's homicides, and that
harrowing statistic has remained steady in subsequent years. Most of the
homicides disproportionately occurred in northeast Omaha (which is
predominantly black), including the drive-by murder of five-year-old Payton
Benson shot while eating breakfast on a living couch. Overall, blacks are only
13.7% of Omaha's population. 

5-year-old Payton Benson
Omaha.com reported: 
"[O]maha's streets in recent years have become among the deadliest
places in America for blacks.  Fueled by gun violence in northeast Omaha,
Nebraska has the third-highest black homicide rate in the nation, according to
the latest compilation of detailed national homicide statistics."
  When Omaha's white police chief, was asked to
speculate on why an overwhelming majority of Nebraska's homicides were
clustered in northeast Omaha, he
responded, "I don't see what purpose that serves." In
other words, political correctness trumps public safety. His protectionism of
black thug culture run amok wasn't reciprocated by Ernie Chambers, Nebraska's
longest serving state senator (also black) who represents high-crime north
Omaha. The senator compared American police to Islamic terrorists and submitted
he'd shoot a cop if he had a weapon. State Sen. Ernie Chambers said during
a legislative hearing on gun bills that you don't have to go halfway around the
world to find an ISIS mentality. It can be found in America because police
terrorize blacks every day — as reported by
NebraskaWatchdog.org. "My ISIS is the police," Chambers said, adding
police can get away with shooting people if they "think" they're going to do
something — like pull a weapon. "The police are licensed to kill us
— children, old people," he alleged. Then, Chambers' rhetoric
escalated, saying if he had a gun, he would use it on police, not his political
opponents.
"If I was going to carry a weapon, it
wouldn't be against you, it wouldn't be against these people who come here that
I might have a dispute with. Mine would be for the police. And if I carried a
gun I'd want to shoot him first and then ask questions later, like they say the
cop ought to do."
Nebraska senator
compares police to ISIS, says he'd shoot a cop
watchdog.org
 
Unlike Omaha's police chief, I'll say why the city's violence is
concentrated in certain areas. Quite simply, the violence is undeniably linked
to a sociopathic subculture that infests urban areas. There's an unholy
matrimony between thugs and thug enablers. However, Omaha's inner-city quandary
isn't unique; this trend dominates America's urban landscapes.
Officers'
Morale
 
Police officer Arik Matson once opined, "Police officers may drive
black and white cars, however what goes on in their job is a lot of gray." This
truism is expected to be lost upon civilians, but when politicians and police
brass themselves lose sight of this fact, officer morale plummets. With the
anti-police sentiment and the political-pandering of police brass, officers'
lack of morale and enthusiasm is being felt nationwide. Police simply do not
want to become the next headline, thrown under the bus, or scapegoated for
simply doing their job. The thin blue line has become a tightrope that all
officers are walking. Thus, arrests are trending downward. In the first three months of 2015, Chicago police stopped and searched
157,346 people for suspicious behavior. This year, that number dropped to
20,908 — down 86
percent. Also, the passing of an American Civil Liberties Union-influenced
law to combat racial profiling now requires the police to fill out up to sixty
pages of forms for each stop. Chicago's Mayor Rahm Emanuel noticed the trend and
stated that the CPD had gone "fetal." In a city that
typically has more homicides than days in a calendar year, the Chicago
Tribune captured the CPD's dispirited attitude:
"Some fear being put under a microscope
more than ever for actions they take on the street. They worry about getting
into trouble even for treating people appropriately. As a result, unless
they're responding to 911 calls, they're less likely to make street stops on
their own, even if their gut tells them someone is up to no good, they said.
"The days of the hunch are over," said a sergeant with 20 years'
experience who works on the South Side. "You have to have something more
than intuition." 

The results of Chicago's public servants being forced to serve their own
interests
  After the Baltimore Tsunami erupted in April
2015, Baltimore's arrests dropped sixty percent the following month, compared
with arrests the previous year. In New York City, arrests plummeted
sixty-six percent as the nation's largest police force turned a blind eye to
some minor crimes, and made arrests only "when they have to" — according
to the New York Post. This pattern of police disengagement exposed the damaged
relationship between the NYPD and mayor
Bill de Blasio's administration; officers felt betrayed by the mayor's
political-correctness.
 
Arrests plummet 66%
with NYPD in virtual work stoppage
nypost.com

A result of the NYPD blues
The
Ferguson Effect
  The
lack of morale has resulted in a condition of stagnation commonly referred to
as the "Ferguson effect" — cops intentionally standing down on the
job to avoid potential encounters out of fear of demonization. The Ferguson
effect has been cited as the reason for violent spikes in cities nationwide.
Even in racially diverse places such as Providence, Rhode Island, a conspicuous
change is surfacing between cops and the communities they serve.
"On
the streets, where Maj. Tom Verdi spent the early days of his nearly three
decades on the force, the respectful nods of acknowledgement have been replaced
with some "hostile'' stares. And within the ethnically mixed South Side, Lt.
Henry Remolina said the black and white uniform often
renders him a stranger in the very neighborhood where he grew up.
 
There is no tying the tension here to
any specific confrontation gone bad. No shooting, no beating captured on video. Rather, it is
akin, law enforcement officials and community leaders said, to a powerful
aftershock that has reignited long-unresolved social grievances in Providence
and in many other cities across the country following the wave of civil unrest
that swept through Ferguson, Albuquerque, Baltimore, Chicago, Cleveland, North
Charleston, S.C., and Staten Island."
  This
strategy of policing by non-policing, which leads to a police force that's
reactive instead of proactive, is exactly what the RGI wants. 
Providence one of many U.S. police
forces feeling Ferguson aftershocks
usatoday.com
Self-Defense
is Racist?
 
This Ferguson-effect nearly cost an Alabama detective his life. The
plainclothes detective was en route to investigate a
string of burglaries when he saw a GMC Yukon erratically driving on the
interstate. After pulling over the SUV, he called for backup, and commanded the
man to stay inside the vehicle. Backup was called so that the detective could
continue his burglary investigation while another officer handled the traffic
stop. While waiting for backup, the man exited the car, aggressively approached
the detective, and repeatedly questioned why he'd been pulled over. The
detective considered using force but considered the potential backlash. "A lot of
officers are being too cautious because of what's going on in the media," he told CNN. "I
hesitated because I didn't want to be in the media like I am right now." The man, a 34-year-old
convicted felon, grabbed the detective's gun and pistol-whipped him until the
detective lost consciousness. The last thing the officer remembered was getting
sucker-punched in a parking lot then waking up in a hospital bed with staples
in his head. He suffered multiple lacerations to his head and face.  He didn't shoot the
man because of the outcry surrounding a spate of police shootings nationally. "We
don't want to be in the media," the detective said. "It's hard times
right now for us." The thug was captured and charged with attempted
murder. 
 
Shortly after the brutal confrontation, pictures of the bloodied officer
laying unconsciousness on a sidewalk in a parking lot surfaced on social media.
And he was taunted and mocked by the anti-cop mob online while the perp was
celebrated. Birmingham police Sgt. Heath Boackle, president of the Fraternal
Order of Police, told AI.com:
"He was laying there lifeless and
people were standing around taking pictures. If the tables were turned, and
that was a suspect lying there, they would be rioting. If the officer would have shot him, then he would have shot an 'unarmed
man.' Instead, he took the gun from the officer. The officer had every right to
shoot him. We're lucky we're not talking about him killing the officer."
  This
black-on-blue crime left the officer beaten until he was black and blue. Had
this detective defended himself, he would've most certainly have become the
next Darren Wilson and Birmingham the next Ferguson. Ever notice how
citizens make it their business to videotape cops but never do the same to the
thugs terrorizing their communities? 
Man charged in Birmingham detective's
beating; outrage follows support of attack on social media
al.com
 
Pistol-whipped detective says he
didn't shoot attacker because of headlines
cnn.com

Post #1: "Pistol whipped his ass to sleep" hashtag "#FckDaPolice"
Post #2: "Pistol
pimped his faced n um chillen now"
Criminals > Cops
  According to the
FBI, 48,315 officers were assaulted while performing their duties in 2014;
the largest percentage of victim officers (30.8 percent) were assaulted while
responding to disturbance calls.  In urban America, disturbance calls
along with traffic pursuits/stops, are typically the most dangerous
situations for police. And with relations presently strained between cops and
inner-city residents, I'm surprised that the police even respond to calls in
neighborhoods where the maelstrom of criticism is never lodged against the
menacing malefactors but cops. Without a doubt, this reality eventually affects
the cops' psyche, and may ultimately create cynicism or a hardened heart. After
all, officers aren't machines, but unfairly expected to operate emotionlessly
like machines. 
Blue-On-Black Deaths
  Whenever a blue-on-black death occurs, no
context or fact-finding mission is necessary — a black person being shot by a
cop is the only context and fact needed. But, are black deaths encountered
during police encounters a manifestation of police prejudice, or
disproportionate black criminality? According to a Rasmussen poll conducted in March
2015, fifty-six percent (56%) of black voters believe police that discrimination
against minorities is a bigger problem than the crime levels in low-income
inner-city communities. Undeniably, the consistently high crime rate in black
communities results in frequent blue-on-black encounters; specifically, blue
encounters with black criminals. However, this unavoidable reality doesn't
eclipse the vast amount of criminality that's suffocating urban areas. Those
56% black poll voters must have been black criminals themselves or apologists
for the criminals. Apologists disingenuously stress the lie that
blue-on-black victimization is sanctioned by the state, when in actuality; black-on-black
victimization is sanctioned by the state... the state of denial within the black community.
 
Bigger Problem - Racist
Cops or Inner City Crime?
rasmussenreports.com
  The following chart documents the FBI's
2014 arrest rate for Blacks, Asians, and Whites — Hispanics are lumped into the White
category by the Feds, thus inflating the numbers.
Arrest Percentages - 2014




Offense


Whites


Blacks


Asians




Murder
  & Non-Negligent Manslaughter


46.3
 


51.3


1.3




Rape


67.2


29.9


1.4




Robbery


42.3


55.9


0.8




Aggravated
  Assault


63.7


33.1


1.5




Burglary


67.6


30.2


1.1




Larceny-theft


69.1


28.0


1.2




Motor
  Vehicle theft


66.5


30.7


1.3




Arson


73.1


23.4


1.3




Violent
  Crime*


59.4


37.7


1.4




Property
  Crime**


68.8


28.4


1.2




Other
  Assaults


65.4


31.9


1.1




Forgery
  & Counterfeiting


63.8


34.0


1.5




Fraud


66.1


31.8


1.0




Embezzlement


61.9


35.6


1.7




Stolen Property;
  Buying, Receiving, Possessing


 
65.5


 
32.2


 
1.2




Vandalism


70.1


27.0


1.0




Weapons;
  carrying, possessing, etc.


 
57.3


 
40.7


 
1.2




Prostitution
  & Commercialized Vice


 
53.7


 
41.8


 
3.9




Sex
  Offenses (except Rape & Prostitution)


 
72.5


 
24.3


 
1.6




Drug Abuse
  Violations


68.9


29.1


1.1




Gambling


35.8


58.9


4.4




Offenses
  Against Family & Children


64.4


32.9


0.7




Driving
  Under the Influence


83.7


13.0


1.8




Liquor
  Laws


80.2


14.5


1.3




Drunkedness


80.9


15.7


1.1




Disorderly
  Conduct


63.0


33.9


0.7




Vagrancy


68.7


28.3


0.8




All other
  Offenses (Except Traffic)


 
67.8


 
29.5


 
0.9




Suspicions


52.7


44.7


1.2




Curfew
  & Loitering Law Violations


 
51.4


 
46.2


 
1.1




Total%


69.4


27.8


1.1




 
*Violent crimes are offenses of murder, non-negligent manslaughter,
rape, robbery, & aggravated assault. **Property crimes are offenses of
burglary, larceny,-theft, motor vehicle theft, and arson.
  The "Driving
Under the Influence" (DUI) rate of 13%, is the
only category where crime is proportional to black's national population
percent. The arrest rates for the other crimes — major and minor — are
disproportionally high. And as long as black crime rates remain
disproportionate, cops will be disproportionately deployed in black
communities. Since the feds lumped Hispanics in with
whites, the breakdown of proportional crimes is complicated. Census.gov states
that Whites (alone, not Hispanic or Latino) are 62%, Hispanics/Latinos (alone)
are 17% of the national populace — whites and Hispanics (who identify as white)
are 77%. Even if I use 77% as the benchmark, whites are still underrepresented
in most categories, especially the major violent categories. Asians, 5.4% of
the national population, are also underrepresented in all categories. It's
evident that different races commit crimes at different rates, — in other
words, "Other races do it too" — but only blacks are determined to
contribute more than their 13% share. Furthermore, cops — of all races — are
also disproportionately endangered by black assailants. Over the past decade,
forty-percent of cop killers have been black, and officers are killed by blacks
at a rate 2.5 times higher than the rate at which blacks are killed by police
—according to Wall
Street Journal.  
 
Sure, it's trendy to assume that every black person shot by police is
the true victim, but even when shootings are justified, BLM insists that police
are assassinating blacks who were simply planting daisies in the community's
garden. 
  For
example, in Raleigh (North Carolina), 24-year-old Akiel Denkins was shot in the
back seven times — by a white cop — while climbing a fence to evade capture.
The head of the North Carolina NAACP implored the authorities to conduct a fair
and transparent investigation into the fatal police shooting, and during a news
conference stated that someone running away is not a "license to
kill." A woman who asked not
to be identified told the local news that the foot chase started when a man
(Denkins) took off as he was approached by a police officer. The man (Denkins)
ignored the officer's demands to stop, the woman said, and the chase went over
one fence and turned deadly after a second fence. "When they got to the
tall fence, the boy (Denkins) jumped the tall fence, but the police
couldn't," the woman said. "When the police went to jump over
the tall fence, he fell. When he fell, he just started shooting his gun."
Local television coverage showed police forming a line in the street as a crowd
of approximately one hundred people gathered at the scene of the shooting
behind yellow crime tape and began chanting, "Black lives Matter," and "No
justice, no peace!" Some people shouted obscenities at the officers. "They
killed my son for no reason," said the victim's grieving mother. "Everybody
out here said he was running, didn't have a gun, (was) trying to jump a fence, and that officer shot my son seven times. For what? For nothing." 
Local media outlet WRAL captured more
community reactions:
Denkins was well-known in the community. He had two sons,
ages 3 and 2, was working on his GED through the
Neighbor to Neighbor program and hoped to become a carpenter.
 
"He could have been my son. I treated him like my son.
I've fed him at my church before. Now, he's lying back there dead," said
Rev. Chris Jones, pastor of Ship of Zion Church, which is about four blocks
from the shooting scene.
 
Crowds of people milled about amid the dozen or so police
cruisers that blocked off the neighborhood as investigators spent much of the
afternoon collecting evidence and witness statements from the shooting scene.
 
"The mood around here is more along the lines of people
are just frustrated, angry, upset and
disappointed," said Casanova Womack, who lives in the neighborhood.
"A lot of guys around here are saying what you've probably heard before -
"Why call the cops if the cops won't even come down?' and 'Instead of
protect and serve, kill.'"
 
Jones was among several clergy members who tried to quell
anger in the crowd, but he said he is disheartened by the shooting.
 
 
"It's going to damage the relationship with
police," Jones said. "Even I have to fear. Even me,
because of my color, now I've got to fear, when before I had a great
relationship with officers."
 
Jones said that Denkins did not have to die.
 
"If he ran from you today, you could have arrested him
tomorrow. Why did you have to kill him today," he said.
 
Monday night, hundreds gathered in the streets not far from
where Denkins was killed.
 
"He's gone. Why? Because of the
color of his skin," said Minister Brenda Ginger.
 
There were tears, signs, and candles as people held a vigil
before marching through the streets, but there was also growing outrage in the
crowd. 
 
"We are sick and tired of being sick and tired,"
said Ginger. "It is time for change. It is time for all of us to get
together and say no to the injustice."
 
While the shooting brought the crowd together, some of the
emotion felt Monday night came from a deeper place and had been building for
some time.
 
"They want to lock you up as a modern-day slave,"
said community leader Diana Powell. "This is a very defining moment."
 
Police: Officer who shot, killed drug suspect is
29-year-old senior officer
wral.com
 
Indeed, this is a tragic story — especially if you're a fan of
race-based fiction. Personally, I prefer science fiction, not race-based
fiction, but hey, to each his own. The true sequence of events was revealed in
the official police report, which Raleigh's
black police chief submitted to the mayor and city council. It read, in part:
Shortly
before noon on February 29, 2016, Senior Officer D.C. Twiddy
was on Bragg Street near Mangum Street when he observed an individual he
recognized as Mr. Akiel Rakim Lakeith
Denkins. Officer Twiddy was aware that Mr. Denkins had
an outstanding warrant for his arrest relating to felony drug charges. Officer Twiddy, who was in uniform, parked his marked patrol
vehicle facing south on Mangum Street, got out and began to approach Mr.
Denkins who had turned and already begun to walk away. When Officer Twiddy told Mr. Denkins to stop, he began to run west on
Bragg Street before turning North on South East Street, with Officer Twiddy chasing him on foot. Mr. Denkins made a sharp right
and ran between two houses on South East Street. Officer Twiddy
slipped and fell on loose gravel as he attempted to follow. As Officer Twiddy was getting up to continue the pursuit, he observed
Mr. Denkins jump a fence and continue toward the back of the house located at
1117 South East Street. Officer Twiddy jumped the
fence and continued the chase. As he came around a north-east corner of the
house, he saw Mr. Denkins who was attempting to climb over a second fence. Mr.
Denkins stopped and turned toward Officer Twiddy. 
 
Officer
Twiddy ran to and grabbed Mr. Denkins, in an effort
to take him into custody. While the two struggled, Officer Twiddy
felt Mr. Denkins reaching for an object in the front of his waistband. As the
struggle continued, Officer Twiddy observed Mr.
Denkins start to pull a handgun from the front of his waistband and begin to
move it toward Officer Twiddy. 
 
While still struggling with Mr.
Denkins, Officer Twiddy drew his duty weapon and
fired multiple shots as Mr. Denkins continued to move the firearm in his
direction. After the first shots were fired, Officer Twiddy
felt Mr. Denkins' hand or arm make contact with his duty weapon. Officer Twiddy, fearing that Mr. Denkins was either going to shoot
him or attempt to take his duty weapon, stepped back and fired additional shots
at Mr. Denkins, who still had the firearm in his hand. Mr. Denkins collapsed to
the ground, dropping the firearm in the process. Officer Twiddy
then used his police radio to call for assistance. Additional police units
arrived on the scene as well as Emergency Medical Services personnel, who
pronounced Mr. Denkins deceased.
  The report also noted that, "The handgun
located at the scene, which had been in Mr. Denkins' possession during the
encounter, had been reported stolen on January 31, 2016." The preliminary
autopsy not only showed that he was shot four times — not seven as claimed —
but the shots hit his right chest, left forearm, right upper arm, and right
shoulder — not in his back, as claimed. Despite the fact that Denkins had been
arrested sixteen times on twenty-six charges since 2011, with charges including
assault, resisting officers, carrying a concealed gun and possession with
intent to sell and distribute cocaine, his death by white cop still qualified
him for martyrdom. Unfortunately for BLM, the non-fiction version didn't fit
their "killed because of skin color," narrative, but facts rarely do.
Yet again, the wise and timeless sentiment expressed by President Calvin
Coolidge comes to mind: "I sometimes wish that people would put a little
more emphasis upon the observance of the law than they do upon its
enforcement."
 
POLICE: Man pulled gun before being
shot by Raleigh officer
witn.com
  Are there
rogue cops who dishonor the badge and betray the public's trust? Absolutely,
and most cops would agree. The cops who don't agree are probably the problem.
However, judge any alleged criminality or ethics violations on a case by case
basis, and if the claims of criminality are confirmed, make the disgraced cop
walk the plank. It's outright wrong and completely idiotic to throw the entire
force overboard for an individual
officer's offenses. One bad apple doesn't spoil the batch, and black people — of all people — routinely apply this same logic
when conversations of disproportionate black criminality occur. Society is fully capable of holding cops responsible for their
wrongdoings, but BLM doesn't really want to use that approach. Its relevancy
depends on being the judge and jury. 
Blue-on-White
Deaths
 
Contradictory to popular opinion, more whites are killed during police
encounters than blacks — even though blacks maintain
disproportionately high arrest rates. According to an op-ed from Manhattan Institute Fellow Heather
Mac Donald:
"The
Washington Post has been gathering data on fatal police shootings over the past
year and a half to correct acknowledged deficiencies in federal tallies. The
emerging data should open many eyes.
 
For starters, fatal police shootings
make up a much larger proportion of white and Hispanic homicide deaths than
black homicide deaths. According to the Post database, in 2015 officers killed
662 whites and Hispanics, and 258 blacks. (The overwhelming majority of all
those police-shooting victims were attacking the officer, often with a gun.)
Using the 2014 homicide numbers as an approximation of 2015's, those 662 white
and Hispanic victims of police shootings would make up 12% of all white and
Hispanic homicide deaths. That is three times the proportion of black deaths
that result from police shootings."
  A
Washington State University study found that
police were quicker to use deadly force against armed white suspects than black
ones — greater scrutiny and repercussions
exist with shooting blacks. It's an open secret amongst white cops patrolling
black neighborhoods that they can't even point their flashlights at black
suspects without fear of departmental punishment, or accusations of
racism. In fact, a Seattle police officer was suspended for telling a
black suspect — who cops were chasing down a Seattle alleyway, "You're gonna
get your ass shot, boy!" And the suspension is not even the crazy part. The
craziness lies with the fact that the cop never said it to the fleeing suspect,
it was said while in pursuit of the fleeing suspect, and the audio was captured
by the cruiser's dash cam. The suspect was running on foot while the cop
pursued him in the vehicle. Additionally, he wasn't suspended for mentioning
shooting the suspect; the suspension was for saying "boy." Again, the suspect
never heard any of this. It only came to light after Seattle police released
the dash cam video following a public disclosure request and 'in the interests
of fostering better police transparency'. The officer violated Seattle police
department's "bias free policing policy." If only the perp were white, I
bet that the cop wouldn't have been suspended.  Score another point
for the RGI.
'You're
gonna get your ass shot, boy!' Seattle police officer
is suspended after shouting slur at black suspect
dailymail.co.uk
Zachary Hammond 
  Tori
Morton, a 23-year-old female who was on her first date with 19-year-old Zachary
Hammond, used Hammond's cell phone to text someone she was trying to sell drugs
to, but inadvertently texted a state trooper with a similar phone number. The
state trooper contacted Seneca police, who sent an undercover police officer to
meet with Morton and Hammond.
  At
around 8:20 p.m. on July 26, 2015, Hammond, with Morton as his passenger,
drove his 2001 Honda Civic through a parking lot of a Hardee's restaurant, where Morton texted the
undercover officer — "i think im
beside u lol."  Lieutenant Mark Tiller was sent as backup for the undercover
officer. When Lieutenant Tiller arrived, he pulled his vehicle behind Hammond's
car — to block any attempted escape. Tiller
then approached Hammond's car, ordering him to show his hands. Hammond did not
show his hands and began to drive away from the scene. Tiller attempted to stop
the driver by stepping into the path of the fleeing vehicle, but Hammond
continued to accelerate and was clear of the officer. Tiller then fired two
rounds from his .45 caliber handgun at close range through the open driver's
side window of Hammond's car as Hammond tried to flee. Bullets struck Hammond
in the left chest and left rear shoulder. The police report stated that Tiller
feared being run over by Hammond's vehicle when he backed it up and then pulled
forward towards the officer. Hammond was under the influence of cocaine at the
time of his death. 
 
Following the shooting, Hammond's passenger was issued a summons for
possession of 10 grams (0.35 oz) of marijuana. Police
allege that she had planned to sell it to an undercover officer who had set up
the deal. 
 
Seneca police Chief John Covington initially refused to release Tiller's
name in violation of South Carolina's sunshine
law, but did finally release it twelve days after the shooting in response
to the Freedom of Information requests. Covington
referred to Tiller as a "victim" of "attempted
murder" in an incident report, and stated that Tiller fired his weapon
in self-defense because Hammond "drove his vehicle directly at the
officer."
 
Hammond's family criticized the media for their "hypocrisy"
for treating his death differently than similar police officer shootings of
unarmed citizens such as Walter Scott and Samuel
DuBose.
  Lieutenant Mark Tiller did not
face criminal charges, and the Department of Justice reviewed the case for
potential federal charges, but none was expected. 
Zachary
Hammond shooting: officer who killed teen avoids criminal charges
theguardian.com
 
After the dashcam's footage was released, the
White Lives Matter movement protested in full force.
Black Cops 
  As previously noted, the hardships faced by
police officers patrolling inner-cities are innumerable; especially in hoods that are physically controlled by hoods and psychologically controlled by
the victimhood mentality.
Essentially, such tours are three hoods
at once. And since the police presence is constant, the black residents
typically view cops as antagonists; but no cops are viewed more
antagonistically than black cops are. Black cops really face unique challenges. The
perception is that they've traded black for blue, and blue ultimately serves
white interests. In other words, black cops have abandoned their race to
enforce institutionalized racism. Alternatively, black residents expect black
cops to enforce justice for "just-us" (blacks) while practicing the color of
law against those who don't share the same color of skin. Moreover, black
criminals expect black cops to treat them like political prisoners. If not,
they're sell-outs.
  During the Ferguson fiasco of 2014, Yahoo.com
reported that black cops (by all accounts) received the worst verbal abuse from
protestors. Sgt. Harry Dilworth, Ferguson's most senior black officer, and
twenty-four year Army veteran with tours in Iraq and Afghanistan, discussed
some of the vitriol experienced from the BLM mob:
 "My God," said
Dilworth, "threatening your families, getting very specific on what they were
going to do to your daughter and your wife. If you have a unique name, they can
Google it, go to records, and find out [personal information]."
What it's like to be a black cop in Ferguson
yahoo.com
  In 1993, hip-hop artist KRS One released a popular anti-black cop song called, "Black
Cop," and its lyrics still resonate in many black communities.  
Here's what the West
and the East have in common
Both have black cops
in cars profilin'
Hardcore kids in the
West got stress
In the East we are
chased by the same black beast
 
The black cop is the
only real obstacle
Black slave turned
black cop is not logical
But very
psychological, haven't you heard?
It's the black cop
killin' black kids in Johannesburg
 
Whassup black cop, yo,
whassup?
Your authorization
says shoot your nation
You wanna
uphold the law, what could you do to me?
The same law dissed
the whole black community
 
You can't play both
sides of the fence
1993 mad kids are gettin' tense
 
(Chorus) Black cop,
black cop, black cop, black cop
Stop shootin' black
people we all gonna drop
You don't even get,
paid a whole lot
Take your four-five
and you put it 'pon lock!
Take your M-60 and put
it 'pon lock!
Take your Uzi, put it 'pon lock!
Black cop black cop black
cop
Black cop black cop black cop
 
"Training Day" vs. "Family Matters"... In urban America, only one of these cops "Keeps it real"
Black
Anti-RGI Cop
  NYPD Officer Randolph Holder, a
third-generation cop, responded to call of gunfire between two rival gangs
in East Harlem. When officers arrived, the two groups of urban terrorists
scattered. One of fleeing thugs robbed a bicyclist at gunpoint, led cops on a
chase, and shot at them while being pursued — striking Officer Randolph in the forehead.
Sadly, the five-year veteran later died at the hospital. The gunman was also
wounded during the exchange but not fatally. He was apprehended and charged.
  In life, Officer Holder ran towards danger,
but in death, he avoided danger posed by the RGI.  This fact became evident when rumors surfaced
that Shakedown Sharpton was inexplicably asked by the slain officer's father to
deliver the eulogy. Officer Holder's fiancée was puzzled by that idea
remarking, "He [Officer Holder] didn't like [Sharpton]. He wasn't a fan. So I don't know why
[Sharpton] is speaking." Thankfully, circus master Sharpton didn't
speak at the funeral and Officer Holder was allowed to rest in peace. 
He didn't like Sharpton: Slain cop's fiancée slams possible
eulogy by Rev.
nypost.com

Officer
Holder died honoring the Hippocratic Oath
 











#AllLivesMatter
"Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere." - MLK
  In the
finite amount of time that nature allots us, I am firm believer that all lives
matter, even the lives of urban terrorists — well, the urban terrorists lives
don't really matter to me, but they undeniably matter to the prison and funeral
industries. The thought/word police have interpreted the #AllLivesMatter
declaration as a cheap rebuttal and dismissal to #BlackLivesMatter. In fact,
the #AllLivesMatter assertion is tantamount to fighting words at BLM rallies or
political events. 
 
Martin O'Malley, a former Maryland governor and Democratic presidential
candidate, actually apologized for saying "All lives matter" while
discussing police violence against African-Americans at a liberal conference in
Phoenix. CNN reported:
"Several dozen demonstrators interrupted
the while he was speaking here at the Netroots Nation
conference, a gathering of liberal activists, demanding that he address
criminal justice and police brutality. When they shouted, "Black lives
matter!" a rallying cry of protests that broke
out after several black Americans were killed at the hands of police in recent
months, O'Malley responded: "Black lives matter. White lives matter. All
lives matter." The demonstrators, who were mostly black,
responded by booing him and shouting him down.
O'Malley apologizes for saying 'all lives matter' at
liberal conference
cnn.com
  Writing on the walls, dry-erase message boards, or chalkboards is a
Facebook tradition that employees have at their disposal like their virtual
Facebook wall. However, Facebook's CEO, Mark Zuckerberg, had a billionaire's
breakdown after #BlackLivesMatter was repeatedly crossed out on the company's
walls and replaced with #AllLivesMatter. 
"There have been several recent
instances of people crossing out 'black lives matter' and writing 'all lives
matter' on the walls" Zuckerberg wrote. "Despite my clear
communication at Q&A last week that this was unacceptable, and messages
from several other leaders from across the company, this has happened again. I
was already very disappointed by this disrespectful behavior before, but after
my communication I now consider this malicious as well."
Mark Zuckerberg asks employees to
stop crossing out 'Black Lives Matter' on the walls at Facebook's headquarters
businessinsider.com

Blacks make up 2% of Facebook's staff 
 
  The #AllLivesMatter declaration qualifies all lives, even the lives that
BLM claims it's representing, and the lives it neglects. Neglected lives such
as, Zaevion Dobson, a fifteen-year-old hero, who was killed when he shielded
three girls from urban terrorists' gunfire. The super predators fired upon a
group of school kids celebrating the holiday. Zaevion saved those girls from
eminent danger because #AllLivesMatter. Tragically, only four months later, urban terrorism
would again visit Zaevion Dobson's family. This time, the urban Grim Reapers
snatched the life of his younger cousin, twelve-year-old Jajuan Latham. The preteen was struck in the
head during a drive-by shooting while sitting in the back seat of his father's
parked vehicle at a park gathering. His
murder suspiciously occurred just hours after attending a "Stop the Violence"
celebrity basketball game held in Zaevion Dobson's honor. Needless
to say, neither cousin qualified for the #BlackLivesMatter hashtag.
 
Zavion sacrificed
himself while JuJuan was sacrificed by the community's apathy towards urban
terrorism
Hero football player's family opens up about his sacrifice
cbsnews.com
 
12-year-old
boy killed in Knoxville gang shooting
wate.com
 
The indisputable fact is that one of these hashtags is exclusive whereas
the other is inclusive; one of them exists to "protest" while the other
exists to "protect."  The life of five-year-old Layla
Peterson, who was killed while sitting on her grandfather's lap, most
certainly matters! The life of six-year-old Logan
Lipton, who was stabbed to death in his bed during a home invasion, most
certainly matters! The life of fifty-one-year-old Robert
Barnes — a homeless veteran beaten to death (over a lie) by an angry
mob of adults and juveniles — most certainly
matters! Yet, only one of these hashtags honors the memory of these types of
innocent victims. #AllLivesMatter ensures that
victims who would have otherwise been hashtag anonymous, receive the love and
honor that they deserve. Superbowl commercials are
more memorable to most people than these tragic stories. But, #AllLivesMatter
can change that gloomy reality. 
  
5-year-old Layla Peterson, 6-year-old Logan
Lipton, 51-year-old Robert Barnes 
  In
summation, this super short chapter is simply saying that #AllLivesMatter
doesn't diminish the #BlackLivesMatter creed. Even so, #BlackLivesMatter isn't a bridge to racial
harmony; it's a bridge to nowhere that should be burned.





Blameless victims of
super predators      
#AllLivesMatter >
BlackLivesMatter
 











Land of the Free, Home of the Offended
"It's the government's job to protect a lot of things, but
your feelings ain't one of them."
- Bill Maher
  Oh,
my beloved America, what are you becoming? Many say that America doesn't have
an official religion; I vehemently disagree! Presently, our seemingly
state-sponsored religion is "political-correctness," and anyone who doesn't
kneel before it will be publicly sacrificed. Eventually, there will be no need
to fill in religious denomination on birth certificates;
"political-correctness" will already be pre-stamped. The gods of PC are
ensuring that America has one foot in the grave and the other on a banana peel —
which is why I have a vendetta against political correctness and the
thought/word police; they undesirably affect my life. I'm not talking about
traditional police who protect and serve;
I'm talking about the thought/word police who want us to prostrate and serve. The former are easily identifiable from their
blue uniforms, while the latter are difficult to identify because they dress as
civilians, and use political-correctness as their billyclub. Additionally, the
regular police enforce laws whereas the thought/word police enforce PC
ideologies. I agree with Edward
Bernays' assessment of today's America: "The
United States has become a small room where a single whisper is magnified
thousands of times."
  Just
as fire can't burn without oxygen, the RGI couldn't effectively exist without
this climate of political-correctness. Today's unchecked PC has shaped and sustained
this current atmosphere where any criticism of the Race Grievance Industry is
construed as racist. Consequently, the RGI has been free to impose its divisive
agenda without significant pushback; inevitably causing race-relations to
decay. 
  In
1992, Barbara Jordan, the first black woman from a southern state elected to
the House of Representatives, used her keynote
speech at the Democratic National Convention to warn her liberal base about
political correctness: 
"We are one, we Americans. We're one and we
reject any intruder who seeks to divide us on the basis of
race and color. We honor cultural identity. We always have; we always will. But
separatism is not allowed. Separatism is not the American way. We must not
allow ideas like political correctness to divide us and cause us to reverse
hard-won achievements in human rights and civil rights."
  I
wish my high school had offered classes on political-correctness to compliment
the political-science classes. That way, I could've failed
political-correctness in school and moved on with my life, instead of
repeatedly failing political-correctness in the real world. Understandably,
sometimes the best things said are the things left unsaid. However,
political-correctness is a straightjacket. Whenever reality conflicts with
ideology, reality must be restrained — even marginally disagreeable actions, words, or
thoughts, are now considered colossal violations. In a society that values and honors freedom of speech and expression,
we've allowed this counter-culture phenomenon to fester and grow.
College
Campuses
  Nowhere is PC more evident and alive than on
college campuses. From being a place where Critical Race Theory (CRT), which
teaches that racism is engrained in the fabric and system of the American
society, is being propagated, to being the home of free speech zones, safe
zones, speech codes, and other micromanaged forms of censorship. Today's
campuses are incubators for victimology, and in these places of so-called
"higher learning," students are essentially radicalized by
political-correctness. According to a 2010
study conducted by the Association of American Colleges and Universities,
only thirty-percent of college seniors strongly agreed with the question: "Is
it safe to hold unpopular opinions on campus?" Moreover, the study found
that the students' confidence to safely hold unpopular opinions declined from
freshman to senior year.  In the column "The Coddling of the American
Mind," written for The Atlantic, Greg Lukianoff and
Jonathan Haidt revealed:
Two
terms have risen quickly from obscurity into common campus parlance.
Microaggressions are small actions or word choices that seem on their face
to have no malicious intent but that are thought of as a kind of violence
nonetheless. For example, by some campus guidelines, it is a microaggression to
ask an Asian American or Latino American "Where were you born?,"
because this implies that he or she is not a real American. Trigger
warnings are alerts that professors are expected to issue if something in
a course might cause a strong emotional response. For example, some students
have called for warnings that Chinua Achebe's 'Things Fall
Apart' describes racial violence and that F. Scott Fitzgerald's 'The Great
Gatsby' portrays misogyny and physical abuse, so that students who have
been previously victimized by racism or domestic violence can choose to avoid
these works, which they believe might "trigger" a recurrence of past trauma. 
  An
analysis by the Institute
of Medicine has found that "trigger warnings" aren't much help in actually
overcoming trauma — the best approach is controlled exposure to it — and
experts say avoidance can reinforce suffering. That's easier said than done.
Political-correctness has such a strong chokehold on many colleges that several
popular comediennes refuse to tour them. Comic
Chris Rock explained to Vulture
magazine:
"I stopped playing colleges, and the
reason is because they're way too conservative... Not in their political views
— not like they're voting Republican — but in their
social views and their willingness not to offend anybody. Kids raised on a
culture of 'We're not going to keep score in the game because we don't want
anybody to lose.' Or just ignoring race to a fault."
Jerry Seinfeld Says Colleges Are Too
Politically Correct, Kids Don't Understand Racism Or
Sexism
huffingtonpost.com
 
[Author's
Note: Comedy is the final frontier for free speech. So, it's very telling that
legendary comediennes had second thoughts about performing on the college
circuit.]
Frankenstein
Attacks Liberal Bastion
  Political Correctness is destined to
self-destruct, but ultimately, liberals will have to be the ones to destroy this monster it has created. As more PC radicalized students
turn against their administrators, professors, or universities for
micro-aggressions, liberals will have no choice but to take a stand. As evidenced
by the amount of race-based protests that afflicted college campuses
nationwide, —
including Missouri University, where professional
protestors were bused in by BLM, the football team went on strike, a poop
swastika was alleged, and both president and chancellor resigned — the
most frequent victims of political-correctness are liberals. And uber-liberal
Oberlin College provides an important case study of the PC monster turning on its
creator/enabler.
 
Oberlin College, located in Oberlin, Ohio, is celebrated for being the first
American institution of higher learning to regularly admit female and black
students in addition to white males. According to Oberlin's website, it has
approximately 2,900 students. Among them, twenty-percent are students of color.
Despite Oberlin's historical commitments to black students long before it
became fashionable, a black student union, named "Abusua," the Ghanian word for "clan," felt that Oberlin hasn't
done enough for black students lately. As a result, the group addressed a
fourteen-page manifesto of fifty "non-negotiable" demands to the Trustees,
President and other senior administrators, accompanied by a roll of student
signatures. The list of demands was hand-delivered to the offices of the
President, Vice-President, and Dean of Students. 
The Demands
  The
opening paragraph of the demands, read as if was an
excerpt from the 'Twelve Years a Slave' movie. Blacks weren't even this
demanding when they were first admitted to the school in the 1800's.
Oberlin College and Conservatory is an
unethical institution. From capitalizing on massive labor exploitation across
campus, to the Conservatory of Music treating Black and other students of color
as less than through its everyday running, Oberlin College unapologetically
acts as unethical institution, antithetical to its historical vision. In the
1830s, this school claimed a legacy of supporting its Black students. However,
that legacy has amounted to nothing more than a public relations campaign
initiated to benefit the image of the institution and not the Africana people
it was set out for. Along the same lines stated by UNC
Chapel Hill students in their 2015 document "A Collective Response to AntiBlackness," you include Black and other students of
color in the institution and mark them with the words "equity, inclusion and
diversity," when in fact this institution functions on the premises of imperialism,
white supremacy, capitalism, ableism, and a cissexist heteropatriarchy. Oberlin
College and Conservatory uses the limited number of Black and Brown students to
color in its brochures, but then erases us from student life on this campus.
You profit off of our accomplishments and invisible
labor, yet You expect us to produce personal solutions to institutional incompetencies. We as a College defined "high risk," "low
income," "disadvantaged" community should not have to carry the burden of
deconstructing the white supremacist, patriarchal, capitalist system that we
took no part in creating, yet is so deeply embedded in the soil upon which this
institution was built.
  The Abusua document also emphasized, "These
are demands and not suggestions," and "If these demands are not taken
seriously, immediate action from the Africana community will follow." Just
as BLM never has die-ins, #BlackBrunch, protest etc. where they're needed, this
grievance group's demands aren't even demanded at HBCUs (Historically
Black Colleges and Universities).
Abusua's six main goals for Oberlin to
accommodate included:
• A four percent annual increase in enrollment of students of
color from each of the Americas, the Caribbean, and continent of Africa from
2016 to 2022.
• An increase in black administrators and faculty members
across departments and governing bodies.
• The divestment from all prisons and Israel.
• Exclusive safe spaces for black students with designated
rooms at Wilder Hall, the Science Center, and Mudd Library.
•
Elimination of "institutional complacency" that allows violence against black
students.
• The "eradication of
hegemony" in curriculum.
The student union also alleges that
its demands have been raised before and were ignored. 
"This was never acceptable and will not longer be tolerated," it read. "As you will see, these
are not polite requests but concrete and unmalleable demands. Failure to meet
them will result in a full and forceful response from the community you fail to
support."
Among the other demands were:
• Renaming of four academic buildings
to honor Wendell Logan, who created the jazz department; Avery Brooks, a world
renowned actor best known for portraying Capt. Benjamin Sisko
on "Star Trek: Deep Space Nine"; professor Yakubu Saaka and professor emeritus Booker Peek; and sculptor Edmonia Lewis, "as an acknowledgement of the debt owed to
her for the violence that she experienced at this institution."
•
More transparency in the faculty recruitment process for the jazz department, and in the admissions and retention efforts of
the college in general.
• A
six percent annual increase in grant offers versus loan offers for black
students for the next five years.
• An increase in funding for internships and career
opportunities for all black students.
• An $8.20 per hour stipend for black student leaders'
continuous organizing efforts.
• The firing and promotion of certain professors and staff.
•
That black prospective students be interviewed by admissions
officers trained in race consciousness practices.
•
Free housing for black international students unable to return to their home
countries during post-semester breaks.
• An
online database outlining deadlines, dates, and forms critical for the
successful academic journey of black students.
• Financial aid workshops for black students by black
financial aid officers.
• Funding for an event for black first-year students during
orientation week.
• Institutional and financial support for a black bridge
program between the Oberlin public school system and Oberlin College.
• A bridge program for recently released prisoners of the
Grafton Correctional Institution to enroll at Oberlin College.
•
An "Intro to the Black Experience" course for all students as a graduation
requirement.
• Elimination of graduation requirements for Western and classical-centered courses; or required
equivalent courses in African Diaspora.
• Creation
of a department focusing on languages of Africana peoples, including Kiswahili,
Yoruba, Menda, Xhosa, Creole, Black English, Jamaican
Patois, and more.
• Health care and insurance through the college as benefits
for all employees.
• A
meal every work shift for workers at college dining
hall services.
•
Rehiring of community members terminated from jobs at the Oberlin Inn before
its renovation.
•
Discontinuation of the "no trespass list," which Abusua says disproportionately
targets black people.
• A
free busing system for Oberlin public school students, paid for by the college.
• A program allowing community members to take one free
course per semester at the college.
• Establishment of a
payment in lieu of taxes program by the college, to be approved by the city.
 
Undoubtedly, this level of victimology is rooted in Oberlin's
curriculum. If more proof is needed about Oberlin's liberalism, note that
actress Lena Durham is an alumnus. These students have been emboldened and coddled,
instead of being pushed and challenged. Thus, the entitlement mentality has
gone rogue. Now, these apprentices of aggrievements don't want equal rights;
they want special rights, arguably superior rights! The arrogance to
submit a "non-negotiable" list of demands to an entity that already practices
appeasement as an outreach mechanism signifies that political-correctness is
reaching a point of no return. Demanding that
prisoners are enrolled, staff fired, and shared governance, really shows how
far the rabbit hole goes. 
'Unethical' Oberlin College handed 50
demands by black student union
theoberlinnewstribune.com
  In the
1830s, Oberlin was the only college to admit black students, and today is
probably the only non-HBCU where there are fifteen officially recognized black
student organizations — twice the amount of student organizations dedicated to
Asian/Pacific Islander, Latino/Latina, Jewish, and Native American students
COMBINED. Remember, black students are a minority of Oberlin's student populace
yet...
1.     Abusua (the Ghanian word for 'Clan') is a
Black student organization that strives to promote a sense of community for
Black students on the Oberlin campus. Political activism and cultural unity are
emphasized through various social and cultural events and programs throughout
the school year which include communications, social
and cultural activities, academic affairs and publications. All Black students
are encouraged to participate in the various facets of Abusua.
 
2.     The African Students Association's (ASA) purposes include the following: to enhance
and sustain unity among Africans in Oberlin, to coordinate African students'
campus activities, and to act as a coalition-builder with other campus
organizations; to join and actively participate in the National African
Students' Association, to identify and promote African cultures, and to
encourage participation in the development and affairs of the African
continent. ASA
also strives to provide a network for prospective African students abroad and
at home, as a means of enhancing education, to communicate and cooperate with
other organizations of the African Diaspora, and to approach colleges, universities and scholarship foundations for merit
scholarships for African students.
 
3.     Agape Fellowship is a Bible study group that provides a place for
Christian students and especially for African-American
students to study the Bible and to fellowship. Agape Fellowship also
provides a place for non-Christian students seeking a better understanding of
the Bible and Christianity.
 
4.     And What!? is a Hip Hop
dance troupe that focuses on performance and the elements of Hip Hop cultural
education, Emceeing, Deejaying, Breakdancing, and
Graffiti Art.
 
5.     Dance Diaspora is a student dance company focused on dance
performance of the Black experience around the world.
 
6.     Eclipse is a photo-journal yearbook cataloging people and moments
from the Africana community.
 
7.     Essence is a dance class to develop creativity in performance
through modern dance, Afro-forms, and Black vernacular dance.
 
8.     In Solidarity is a collaborative publication by People of Color at
Oberlin-distributed twice a month to report and analyze important events across
our communities from the campus to a global level.
 
9.     Nommo, Swahili for "the word," is
an Africana student literary and news publication. Contributors to Nommo include students, staff, faculty, and alumni. Nommo explores relevant issues in the Africana community
through poetry, prose, interviews, visual art, and essays.
 
10.  OBSSO coordinates
and encourages study tables and groups to share support and mechanisms for
success among Black natural science students. OBSSO also gathers and
disseminations information regarding science and health opportunities for Black
students.
 
11.  OCMBMG
creates a base of academic, social, musical, and cultural support and guidance
for Oberlin Conservatory's Black students.
 
12.  MSA provides
support for and promotes an educational framework for Muslim students at
Oberlin from the U.S. and abroad. This framework provides support for
religious, cultural, and educational activities including religious
observances, festivals and speakers at Oberlin. MSA
also explores and expresses the changing diversity of the Muslim world today.
 
13.  SOCA is an
organization in which students from the Caribbean unite to celebrate and honor
their ancestry through educational and social events for the campus and
community.
 
14.  Sisters of the Yam is a discussion and support group
for Black women at Oberlin College.
 
15. 
VFC nurtures the needs of students and community members
who seek to worship Christ through Black American gospel and spiritual songs.
Members of VFC promote the joy and message of Jesus through music and
fellowship.

Black student group expressing tolerance at
Dartmouth University's library
  This
asinine list of demands shows how the black student grievance groups claim not to
want blacks treated differently, but then turn around and want blacks to be
treated differently via race-based groups and set asides. Only politicians talk from both sides of
their mouths more.  There are even more black-centered organizations
outside of college that specifically contain the world black, but don't want
blacks to be viewed race first. Here's a quick 'black' list: 
* American Association
of Blacks in Energy
* The Association of
Black Psychologists
* National Association
of Black Accountants
* National Association
of Black Hotel Owners, Operators, and Developers
* National Association
of Black Journalists
* National Black
Business Council
* National Black Chamber
of Commerce
* National Black MBA
Association
* National Black Nurses
Association
* National Coalition of
100 Black Women
* National Society of
Black Engineers
* Organization of Black
Designers
* National Organization
of Black Law Enforcement Executives (NOBLE)
* 100 Black Men of
America
* The Black Clergy
* The Black Clergy Women
* Congressional Black Caucus
 
Countless other "black" entities and organizations exist such as the
NAACP, National Council of Negro Women, National Urban League, United Negro
College Fund etc. that don't overtly have the word "black" in their names, but their
missions are unquestionably race-specific.
Dr.
Frankenstein Says No
  A
simple, two-lettered word caused devastating damage to Oberlin's black student
group. And to the group's detriment, there's a strong possibility that the word
may even be used again in any setting that they attempt to take hostage. The
unassertive but yet assertive word is "no." In a move that liberal
colleges may cite as dangerous, Oberlin's president, Marvin Krislov did
something unprecedented, he responded to the list of demands without placating.
"Some of the solutions it proposes are deeply troubling," Krislov wrote
in a response posted on Oberlin's
website. "I will not respond directly to any document that explicitly
rejects the notion of collaborative engagement. Many of its demands contravene
principles of shared governance. And it contains personal attacks on a number
of faculty and staff members who are dedicated and valued members of this
community."
Oberlin president says no to black
students' demands
pbs.org
"Safe Spaces" 
  On May 17, 1954, the Supreme
Court of the United States handed down its decision regarding the
case called Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka, Kansas, — in which the
plaintiffs charged that the education of black children in separate public
schools from their white counterparts was unconstitutional. Brown v. Board
of Education meant that the University of Alabama had to be desegregated.
In January of 1963, following his election as Governor of Alabama, George
Wallace famously stated in his inaugural address, "Segregation now,
segregation tomorrow, segregation forever."
  When
black students Vivian Malone and James A. Hood showed up at the University of
Alabama campus in Tuscaloosa to enroll on June 11, 1963, the governor
demonstrated his devotion to segregation.  In what historians often refer
to as the "Stand in the Schoolhouse Door," the governor literally
stood in the doorway as federal authorities tried to allow the students to
enter. When he refused to budge, President John F. Kennedy called for one
hundred troops from the Alabama National Guard to assist federal officials.
Governor Wallace chose to step aside rather than incite violence. The rest is
history.

Gov. Wallace would be proud of today's college
climate
 
Will the history books of tomorrow remember today's period of millennial blacks
calling for segregation under the guise of "safe spaces" on college campuses,
even after prior generations zealously fought to end segregation? The
contradiction of denouncing Jim Crow history while simultaneously petitioning
for segregation isn't lost upon black grievance groups. They don't mind turning
back the clock, as long as the hand that's doing the turning is black. In other
words, diversity and separation is only acceptable if they're the ones
diversifying and separating. Separate place + separate rules = equal treatment?
 
In today's PC era, only one of these signs is
racist
 
College is supposed to be a "safe space" for ideas, not from
ideas. Besides, blacks already have race-based "safe spaces"; they're
called HBCUs (Historically Black Colleges and Universities). It's laughable
that these BLM college groups bitch about trigger words, while n-words with
triggers are terrorizing urban America.  
College Campuses Call For 'Safe
Spaces'
npr.org
  The inner-cities
sure could use some safe spaces for children to play, and elders to relax,
without fear of becoming collateral damage. But those disingenuous black
students groups would never take this fight to the places where it truly
belongs. Regina Banks, a Baltimore mother, told The
Baltimore Sun that she refuses to send her children to the playground just
across the street. It's dangerous and littered with drug vials, used condoms,
and liquor bottles. Instead, she uses the front porch next door as a "safe
haven" and play space for her children and their friends. "We're
across from a playground. However, we had to make our own playground," Banks
said. "I'm a mom. It's scary." 
Language
Barrier
 
Controlling the language is also a key component of these budding
authoritarians. During the Baltimore Tsunami of 2015, we've learned thug
is a code word for nigger. We have gotten to a point where people can't
even be judged by the content of their character. Calling a thug a thug is now
taboo, even though calling cancer by any other name doesn't make it less
cancerous. The Guardian, a liberal British newspaper, implied that correcting people's grammar
is racist. "The people pointing out
the mistakes are more likely to be older, wealthier, whiter, or just plain
academic than the people they're treating with condescension," opined
Mona Chalabi, The Guardian's data editor. Yep, the grammar police are racist.
In Seattle, officials no longer use "brown bag" in official documents and
discussions because it's potentially
offensive. The Department of Education has banned
references to "dinosaurs," "birthdays," "Halloween" and dozens of other
words on city-issued tests because they fear such words "could evoke unpleasant
emotions in the students." Dinosaurs, for example, call to mind evolution,
which might upset fundamentalists and Halloween suggests paganism. The
University of New Hampshire once offered a Bias-Free
Language Guide that — according to the university's website — was "meant
to invite inclusive excellence in [the] campus community."




Problematic Word


Inclusive Substitute




 
Rich


 
Person of material wealth
 




 
Poor


Person who
  lacks advantages that others have; low economic status
related to a
  person's education, occupation and income




Elders


Senior Citizens




Handicapped or
  Physically-challenged


Non-Disabled




 
Caucasian
 


 
European-American individual




 
Illegal Alien


Person seeking asylum,
  Undocumented Immigrant, Refugee




 
American
 


 
U.S. Citizen or
  Resident of the U.S.
 
 




 
Foreigners


 
International People




University of Minnesota
 
Armed with the word-police's billyclub, the University of Minnesota's Black
Student Union wanted the college to censor race from its crime alerts. The BSU
wanted the alerts to be politically-correct instead of simply being correct. If
the BSU had its way, the crime alerts would generically read like this:
"A homosapien has allegedly committed a
crime on or near the university... Vigilance is advised."
  It
would also be accompanied by an apology that expressed deep sorrow to any
homosapien offended by its posting. Fortunately, the University's crime alerts
are written by the University of Minnesota Police
Department (UMPD), emailed to students, faculty, and staff — plus posted on its
UMPD webpage.  The UMPD's webpage explains that the alerts simply
highlight "crimes that may pose an ongoing threat to the University
community." However, the BSU selfishly prefers that campus sensibilities be
emphasized over campus safety because the crime alerts routinely contained high
amounts of melanin. In other words, black suspects dominated the alerts. 
 
Determined to change this lopsided dynamic, the Black Student Union
formulated a remedy. Unfortunately, their remedy wasn't to address the
unrelenting black crime, such as robberies, which had increased twenty-seven
percent on and around the campus. Instead, their solution was to merge with
other Black-identifying groups, and petition the University to remove race from
crime alerts. 
'U' Students Want Crime Alerts To Avoid Using Racial Descriptions
minnesota.cbslocal.com
  The
petition was issued by members of the African American and African Studies,
Black Faculty and Staff Association, Black Graduate and Professional Student
Association, Black Men's Forum, Black Student Union and Huntley House for
African American Males. The organizations
wrote that while campus safety is crucial, the profiling could be devastating
for black male students.
"[We] unanimously agree that campus
safety should be of the UMPD's utmost importance; however, efforts to reduce
crime should never be at the expense of our Black men,
or any specific group of people likely to be targeted.  In addition to
causing Black men to feel unsafe and distrusted, racial profiling is proven to
inflict negative psychological effects on its victims."
 
Besides being the first and only race to ever request that the
University race-censor its crime alerts, these Black organizations evidently have
no issue with emphasizing race to identify their respective groups (as
previously noted); yet, race is taboo when identifying black criminals. The
irony and hypocrisy would be comical if it weren't true.  
  The President
of the Black Men's Forum said that members of his organization feel threatened
whenever racial descriptions are provided in crime alerts. Again, the black
criminals created this reality, not the university. These black grievance
organizations characteristically mislabel criminal profiling as racial
profiling.
 
Admittedly, I'm no social engineer. But, in three words, I'm going
to provide some ingenious advice that if heeded, would prevent a certain group
from being disproportionately mentioned on campus crime alerts, and even
nationwide police reports.
DON'T COMMIT CRIMES!!!
Coincidentally, these three words can also be used to reverse any
overrepresentation in prisons. 
 
The
grievance letter also contained twelve recommendations for the UMPD, including
mandatory diversity training for officers.
  The
Vice President of University Services, Pamela Wheelock, responded to the
grievance letter, and utilized common sense to end the discourse. Naturally,
the Black organizations, and PC gods were disappointed with her for logic of
placing campus safety over political correctness. She
concluded:
"I firmly believe that a well-informed
community is an asset to public safety...I believe that sharing more information
in our Crime Alerts, not less, is most beneficial in terms of public safety,
especially when that information is available. The information we share can
include a complete description of suspects, unique identifying characteristics
such as an accent or a distinctive piece of clothing, or the description of
vehicles involved. We have reviewed what other Big Ten Universities and local
colleges and universities include, and our practice of including the race of a
suspect when it is available from a victim's description is consistent with
their practices."
 
Although the University of Minnesota maintained its rational position on
race-censorship, the Black organizations can still enjoy the fact that the
mainstream media often censor race. 
Trickle Down
Effect 
  Sadly, these aggrieved college students are our
future leaders. And following in their shadows are impressionable high
schoolers, who will likely inherit their grievances without a second-thought.
In fact, a high school in (city) exemplifies how the wheels on the grievance
bus go round-and-round. 
  Nathaniel Rouse, a seven year principal of
majority white high School in Oak Park (Illinois), said he had been
approached by black students in the building who tried to make sense of the
grand jury's decision not to prosecute police officer Darren Wilson for
shooting Michael Brown in Ferguson, Mo. Therefore, in the spirit of his school
district's five-year strategic plan, which has a running theme of racial
equity, Principal Rouse, who is black, decided to host a Black Lives Matter
event. 
  The event, tactically held during Black
History Month, was supposed to ignite a constructive dialogue about race, but
instead sparked an entirely different race discussion from white parents after
white students were denied entry to the event. It was limited to only black
students. According to the school's website, its student population was
fifty-five percent white, twenty-seven percent black, nine percent Hispanic,
six percent multiracial, and three percent Asian. 
  It's
a melting pot. So naturally, white parents were offended that a
school/community that prides itself on diversity and inclusion would exclude
white students who wanted to attend. Principal Rouse replied that exclusivity
wasn't the intent. He said the decision to allow only black students was based
in an idea known as "affinity grouping," the philosophy that students of one
racial persuasion are able to express themselves fully and safely.
"In order for us to move forward, I
believe the affinity group is the safe way for us to move forward in a safe
environment," he said. "I found it has been far easier for me to
talk about my experiences with racism with individuals that look like me. I
still struggle myself with talking about my experiences with people who don't
look like me," he lamented.
  This
event was promoted as a dialogue about race relations but in actuality was a
monologue on victimhood, justified by the latest PC term "affinity
grouping." Perhaps affinity grouping is what Jim Crow was all along. I
wonder how the principal explained to the students that the event focused on
discrimination when the event itself was discriminatory. With a wink and smile, he probably explained that it was "payback." 
OPRF parents
upset 'Black Lives Matter' assembly excludes other races
chicagotribune.com
Handy, Dandy,
Race Card
 
Monopoly, the timeless and beloved board game, has a highly valued "Get
out of Jail Free" card that can be used at a player's discretion. The
coveted card can only be used by the player who possesses it. In colleges where
blacks are a minority, black students carry a similar card that can be used at
their discretion: the race card. And, it seemingly has limitless equity that
black students can use ad nauseam — even when examples of racism in college settings are exposed
as hoaxes.  These race hoaxes or more aptly, false flag
operations only persist because black lies matter.
Yik Yak threat at SVSU said, 'I'm going to shoot every
black person I can on campus'
mlive.com
Kean
University
  Black
students at Kean University were petrified to attend classes after a series of
anonymous death threats targeted them online. The threats, which included a
promise to "kill every black male and female at Kean University," appeared
under the Twitter handle @keanuagainstblk (Kean University against black). The
first threat — "kean university twitter against blacks is for everyone
who hates blacks people" — appeared during a campus rally that was
held to show solidarity with students across the nation who complained about
racism at other college campuses. Then came a tweet about a bomb being on
campus, and continued with tweets threatening to shoot and kill Kean's black
students.
 
Fortunately, the racist would-be-killer was bluffing. After all, the
killer had ample time to kill blacks as she marched with them. Yep, the
would-be-killer was a black woman, Kayla-Simone McKelvey, a recent graduate of
Kean, 2014 homecoming queen, president of the Pan African Student Union, and
now, self-described race activist, was charged by summons with third-degree
creating a false public alarm. Police say McKelvey participated in the student rally but left midway through and walked to
a computer station at the university's library. Once there, McKelvey created
the anonymous Twitter account - @keanuagainstblk - and began posting
threats of violence against black Kean students. After making the posts,
McKelvey returned to the rally and spread awareness of the threats. That night,
on her personal Twitter account, which has since been deleted, she posted
photos of the rally and screenshots of the threatening tweets.
Twitter threats to black Kean
students made by black alum, police say
nj.com
 
According to Kean's student newspaper, McKelvey was
also the organizer of a rally based on allegations of racism against a professor
and Kean's Student Organization, but that "little to no evidence
emerged to support the claims."

Twitter dee... Twitter
dumb
Missouri U.
 
Racism just seemed to follow the president of the Missouri Student
Association, and his social media kept the public pertinently informed about
the ubiquitous racism at Missouri University. He once took to Facebook to vent
about strangers who were riding in the rear of a pickup truck and screaming
racial slurs at him. Here's the partial post about the pick-up truck incident,
and in true millennial fashion, he prefaced the post with an unnecessary
trigger warning.
"I just want to say how extremely hurt
and disappointed I am. Last night as I walking [sic] through campus, some guys
riding on the back of a pickup truck decided that it would be okay to
continuously scream NIGGER at me. I really just want to know why my simple
existence is such a threat to society. For those of you who wonder why I'm
always talking about the importance of inclusion and respect, it's because I've
experienced moments like this multiple times at THIS [sic] university, making
me not feel included here. 
  With
its own agenda to advance, the local NAACP chapter joined the racial
fright-fest by establishing a confidential telephone hotline for University of
Missouri students to report racial threats.

He forgot to mention that the truck had a
Confederate flag painted on its hood
  And
then, that phantom menace called racism found the president of Missouri Student
Association again (the poor fella must have a tracking device). This time, he
took to Facebook to warn his fellow black students about the eminent danger. He
pleaded to students to take precaution and stay away from the windows in
residence halls because the KKK was sighted on campus. Fortunately, for the
students, he was on top of the situation. In the same message, he stated that
he was working with the Missouri University Police Department (MUPD), state
troopers, and National Guard on the matter. He's a true leader!

Sacrificing himself
for the team... Right?
 
Well, it may have appeared as if the MSU president was on the front line
for his fellows, but actually, he was launching a false flag operation. His
plot was foiled when Missouri U's official alert system repudiated his claim
and requested that no more rumors be disseminated. 

Fraud exposed
  He subsequently
deleted the post about the KKK threat, issued a statement apologizing for the "misinformation,"
and advised people to only get their information from the MU Alert system's
website or Twitter page. Noticeably, the prez didn't apologize for his fallacious claim of "working with the MUPD, the
state trooper and the National Guard."

MSA president apologizes for sharing
false rumors of KKK on MU campus
krcgtv.com
University
at Albany
  I
bet that Rosa Parks turned in her grave as news quickly spread about the three
black female students at the University at Albany being physically attacked on a
city bus by a group of whites who used racial epithets — all while other
passengers and the driver sat silently by. The outrage on social media was
instant after college student, Asha Burwell, one of the alleged victims, cried
Twitter tears.
 
Amongst her many tweets were, "I just got jumped on a bus while
people hit us and call us the "n" word and NO ONE helped us," and "I
can't believe I just experienced what it's like to be beaten because of my skin
color." She also recalled how she begged people for help while being
beaten, but was told to "shut the f*ck up."
Adding insult to injury, these people were her fellow SUNY classmates, she
claimed. As far as police assistance, she tweeted that "they didn't even
seem concerned." 

 

  The outrage on social media was immediate;
supporters nationwide used the hashtag #DefendBlackGirlsUAlbany,
and a campus rally 'against racism' attracted hundreds of people.
At the rally, Asha Burwell declared, "We are shocked, upset, but we
will remain unbroken, we stand here with strength because we value our worth as
black women and as human beings in general." Tyreek Burwell, Asha
Burwell's brother, and offensive lineman for the San Diego Chargers tweeted a
threatening message to one of the wrongfully accused individuals that stated, "just found out you were one of the dudes that put
your hands on my little sister. Hope the police get to you before I do."

  Disturbed by the incident, the university's
black president posted an emotional letter onto
the school's website.
"Dear Students, Faculty and Staff:
 
Early this morning, three of our students were harassed and
assaulted while riding on a CDTA bus on Western Ave. in Albany.
 
The students, who are Black women, stated that racial slurs
were used by the perpetrators, whom they described as a group of 10 to 12 white
males and females.
 
I am deeply concerned, saddened and
angry about this incident. There is no place in the UAlbany
community for violence, no place for racial intolerance and no place for gender
violence.
 
I am out of town today. I have decided to cut my trip short
and will be returning to Albany as soon as I can to address this situation.
 
In the meantime, I have been in direct contact with the
Provost and executive leadership team and have directed that the University
respond rapidly and forcefully.
 
Our police, our student affairs personnel and our Office of
Diversity and Inclusion staff are working together to support our young women.
 
We are working closely with the Albany Police Department to
identify the persons responsible. If those individuals are UAlbany
students, we will hold them fully accountable for their behavior.
 
I call upon all members of the University at Albany to unite.
We must show the world that we stand for inclusiveness and stand against bias, violence and hatred.
 
Our annual Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. celebration will be
held on the evening of Monday, Feb. 1. As we reflect on the principles and
values that Dr. King stood for, let us come together in solidarity to reaffirm
our values.
 
Now is the time to
recommit to our principles of inclusivity and diversity and send a strong
message that we will not tolerate bias, hatred and
violence in our University."
 
The
story even caught the attention of Hillary Clinton, who condemned the attack on
Twitter saying, "There's no excuse for racism and violence on a college
campus."

"Hot Sauce" Hillary knows that
black women are the Dems' most loyal voting bloc
  All
the ingredients for a successful "Black lies matter"
campaign were in effect: a white-on-black incident, usage of racial slurs,
other whites refused to intervene, and the case treated as a non-issue by
police. It was Tawana Brawley 2016. But surely, a story like this didn't happen
in twenty-first century America, right? Exactly! In
fact, the evidence stood contrary to how the
so-called victims portrayed the series of events; the three individuals were
not the victims of a crime, they were the perpetrators. Police said video and
eyewitness accounts indicated that the women were never 'targeted in any manner
due to their race,' and the only person heard uttering racial epithets was one
of the defendants. There was only one victim, a white 19-year-old female, who
was actually assaulted by the three students. As a result, they were charged with third-degree assault, and false filing of a
police report.
SUNY Albany students who claimed racial attack will be
charged for assault and false reporting
nydailynews.com
 
If convicted, maybe they'll receive
a presidential pardon
Book's Conclusion
  Although the Race Grievance Industry is sustained by its propaganda machine (the
Black press/Blk twitter), legislative arm (Congressional Black Caucus), and
splinter groups (such as Black Lives Matter), the three entities that actually
give renewable life to the RGI are victimhood, white guilt, and political
correctness. I refer to them as the "Unholy
Trinity." And with liberalism as its ally, the R.G.I naively believes that
it's too big to fail. 
 
Admittedly, the Race Grievance Industry is a formidable opponent with many tentacles, and
the quagmire it has created will remain intact for the foreseeable
future. However, by aggressively confronting the RGI and its support system,
its walls will eventually collapse like those of Jericho. 
  If we truly desire to become one
nation under God, the grievance genie has to be placed back inside its bottle,
and then sealed for eternity. 
America's future is ours to create. 
 
****Thanks for Listening****
 
Email: 
Taleeb@theuncivilwar.info
Twitter:
@TaleebStarkes
 
















