




Body Language: Become a Pro at Reading Anyone Anytime in Just 24 hours
 
TOC
 
Introduction                                                                                                  2                                                        
Why body language is important                                                        3                                                                      
Sub-categories of Body Language                                                        6                            
Gestures and their significance                                                        13              
Learn to decode various different expressions                                          18              
Eyes are mirrors                                                                                     23                                          
Breaking down smile language                                                                      27                                                                      
Significance of speech nuances                                                                      29                                          
Emotional outbursts                                                                                    32                                          
Interpreting introverts and extroverts                                                        33                                          
Relationship cues                                                                                    34                                                        
Body language in business                                                                      36                                          
Create a positive impact with body language                                          38
Nonverbal skills - Kinesics                                                                      41              
Understanding Baby Signs                                                                      44              
Some Useful tips                                                                                     48                                                                      
Conclusion                                                                                    










Introduction
Communication is a two-way process.  The main elements forming the communication process include the encoder, message, channel, receiver, and feedback.
It is not an easy task to decipher what a person is actually saying or feeling in the present moment. Communication process refers to a combination of what you hear and see in the current situation, based on which you draw a conclusion.
It is easy to see the obvious. But, have you ever tried to decipher the actual meaning of something that is being said.  Body language is the art of decoding the non-verbal communication which is transmitted through the speaker's gestures, foot position, smile, facial expressions, and several other body movements.
These microexpressions and gestures create an immediate impact on the receiver. The way you move, look, listen, and react helps the other person understand if you are communicating honestly and listening to the other person. People's body language unravels more than what is communicated through words. 
Non-verbal communication develops trust, a good rapport and facilitates transparency. A wrong body language creates suspicion, tension, and confusion that lead to conflicts.  
 In this entertaining eBook, you shall learn about the secret of body language, which will help you gain confidence and the ability to control any situation - from negotiating with a business client to building a strong personal relationship.










Why body language is important
 
Verbal communication only contributes to 7% of the actual message. Remaining part of the message is communicated in the following order: Paraverbal communication (38%) and nonverbal communication (55%).
Body language refers to the outwards reflection of the emotional state of an individual. It is a valuable tool for a person to express his or her real feelings. Only a minor part of how we present ourselves to another person is expressed through words. Creating a good impression requires you to know and control your body language. 
The perception of the receiver about your body language cannot be described in words and you actually cannot prove what impression you have created in the other person's mind. 
Sometimes, people experience the feeling of intuition. You must have passed a remark at certain moments, "I feel he/she is fond of me', "is he/she telling the truth?' etc. Generally, it is believed that women have a strong ability to read a person's body language and compare it with the verbal signals. Women usually remark, "I have gut feeling that he is telling a lie." 
Words are mainly used to convey information, but body language works out interpersonal attitudes as well as acts as a great substitute for verbal messages often. Intuition is largely caused due to interpretation of body language.
Biological rules of evolution control human reactions, actions, gestures and body language. However, it is fascinating that a human being is rarely conscious about its movements, postures, and gestures that reveal one story while the vocal cords may narrate a completely different story. 
Therefore, it is important to understand your own body language before assessing another person's body language and drawing conclusions. The following chapters will describe the various characteristics of body language that will help increase your knowledge about behavioural attitudes. 
Practice techniques of body language: 8-10 am









Express your feelings 
An individual expresses his/her true feelings through the medium of body language. For example, you may find it difficult to tell a person directly that you dislike him/her. However, your body language, consciously or unconsciously communicates the message successfully. The opposite holds true as well. 
Sometimes, body language creates confusion in the receiver's minds because you tend to deliver dual messages. Body language never lies. You cannot hide your emotions with body language. You may pretend to act normal, but your body language will unravel your discomfort, without you being aware of it. 
Studies reveal that when you meet a person for the first time, the other person observes your body language more than your words. If both don't correspond well, it creates a doubt in the receiver's mind, which leads him/her to question your intentions. For example if you feel defensive, you will cross your arms and legs. 
Body language plays an important role in determining what type of message is imparted. Eye movements and facial expressions have a great impact in expressing your feelings and emotions. It is always stressed that during a meeting you must maintain eye contact with each audience member, failing which your message will lack impact.  
Another factor of body language is voice modulation and tone of speech. An ideal message, i.e. words interpreted in their real sense is characterized by the factors including correct voice intensity, posture, breathing pattern, and voice modulation. 









Origin of nonverbal signals
Often, researchers debate on the source of non-verbal cues - inborn, genetic, or through cultural transfers. Conclusions have suggested that each group has contributed to the development of certain non-verbal signals. Some basic facial expressions are present in every culture to express human feelings.
Some human gestures ordain to our primitive ancestors. You smile to express the feeling of happiness. Carnivorous animals use the smiling gesture to threaten, while apes used it to express submission. 
Flaring nostrils and baring teeth are signs of attack. Animals use sneering to warn other animals, while humans implement it when they are angry, irritated, or feel threatened. 
All people express certain basic gestures or signals regardless of their culture. For example, you nod the head to express approval or acceptance. You shake your head from one side to another to express disagreement. Even an infant shakes his head from side to side to stop consuming breast milk. 
There are other universal gestures that will be explained later, in Chapter 2. 









American Hand Gestures - Cultural differences
People belonging to different cultures may interpret gestures in different ways. Hence, it is important to learn what each gesture means. Observe the pictures below and understand what each hand gesture signifies across different cultures. 
  
Thumbs Up: US citizens use this gesture to imply agreement or approval. Hitchhikers use it to appreciate a job well done.  However, people in the Middle East will feel offended if you use this gesture as it means nothing is going on well. Avoid using this gesture in Greece, Sardinia, Russia or West Africa. In Mediterranean countries it means 'your wife is unfaithful'
 Victory Sign: commonly, this gesture denotes triumph or victory in America. However, the British    and Australians use this hand gesture to insult the other person. The French people use this gesture to symbolize peace, while Ancient Romans use it to signify Julius Caesar placing an order for five beers. 
 Most of the English-speaking countries adopt this gesture to imply everything is OK. However, the gesture can create problems in the Mediterranean regions, Russia, Turkey, or Brazil because it is interpreted as an orifice signal, a gay man, or a sexual insult. Japanese associate money with this gesture and people in Belgium, Tunisia, or France imply the feeling of worthlessness. 
 People in South America use the rotated hand gesture as a symbol of protection against bad luck. When you point someone in Italy and Malta with this gesture, it means protection against the Evil Eye. In the Mediterranean regions, it means 'Your wife is unfaithful.' In the United States, it is the official logo of Texas University as well as the Texas Longhorn Football Team. 
 The Western countries use the gesture to stop someone or asking to surrender. Some western countries also denote the number ten.  However, the Greeks treat it as an insult because they interpret the meaning as rubbing faecal waste on another person's face. The popular meaning although is that you are stating the truth. 
              
Therefore, when you are travelling to a foreign country, observe the local people to learn the common gestures so as to avoid trouble. A good method of learning cultural differences in body language is to record foreign films and replay on muted sound. 










Subcategories of body language
 









Haptics
The term haptics is derived from a Greek word 'haptikos' that means an ability to grasp or perceive. It refers to the application of tactile sensation or touch. The various types of touch include positive, control, playful, conventional, conforming, and unintentional. 
Messages communicated through tactile sensations require the speaker to understand how a person thinks and the various ways in which the message can be perceived by the receiver. You cannot predict the actual reaction but you can at least reduce the probability of communicating the wrong message to the other person if you take into account the important factors of nonverbal communication.
The tactile sensation depends on gender to a great extent. For example, a man does not like to be touched while talking whereas women like this gesture. Women use the touching sensation to express care and affection. For instance, a mother pats on the child's head to feel comfortable. You pat your friend on the back as a sign of encouragement. 
The gesture of tactile sensation is approached generally as a part of a continuing action. The reasons for implementing this gesture include: asking for a favour, providing information, giving guidance, instructing someone, sharing your experience, make the other person feel comfortable, and persuading someone. 
The usual signals of the person's approachability with respect to the touching gesture are evident in the following forms:

Open nonverbal signals
Constant eye contact
Lean forward
Smile to greet the other person
Nodding

 
Touch is related to intimacy up to a great extent. Intimacy is defined as the expressions involving prevalence as well as the intensity of the touch; other factors associated with the touch that help qualify it as an intimate gesture include physical proximity, eye contact, length of conversation, smile, and the content. This group of nonverbal signals help us understand the degree of intimacy between two persons. 
The communication signals based on touch can express several emotions and feelings. This gesture is used to communicate affection, appreciation, felicitation, professional attitude, and fear. Examples of these touch gestures include a kiss, a pat on the back, a high-five, a handshake, and a push respectively. Sometimes, you do not require words to express your feelings. The way you touch the other person communicates strongly. For example, if you feel irritated seeing the other person, you will push him or her to move him away from your sight. On the contrary, if you like meeting the other person your gesture will exhibit positive attitude and be characterized by soft and comforting touch sensation. The feelings do not require any verbal explanation.
However, you must understand the different interpretations of this gesture across various cultures around the globe. For instance, random eye contact communicates attention and interest in the regions of Canada and the United States. An intense eye contact of two people belonging to the same gender and residing in the Middle East conveys sincerity and trust; however, you should look briefly at each other if you belong to the opposite gender. An Asian, African or a person from Latin America will maintain a long eye contact to pose a challenge to the other person. However, in the Japanese culture eye contact is considered insignificant. In addition, some cultures believe that a woman should not maintain eye contact when she talks to a man.
I would like to illustrate the example of exchanging greetings cross different cultures. The normal way of greeting a person in the United States is to offer a handshake and tell your name. When you are attending a global conference, you will get an opportunity to interact with people from different cultures. Therefore, it is appropriate to learn what gestures means across different cultures so that you do not offend any delegate. For instance, the Japanese bow in order to greet another person; Italians kiss the other person's cheeks to greet him or her. 
Haptic communication plays an important role in the process of sending and receiving nonverbal signals between people. It is capable of communicating intense messages without speaking any words. For example, it is easy to understand the message when someone keeps a hand on your shoulder he or she offers moral support to you. Or, when someone places a hand on your thigh, he or she tries to calm you and make you feel comfortable. However, some haptic gestures are difficult to interpret appropriately like a wink. 
Lack of understanding of nonverbal signals can create a negative relationship with other people; for instance, an improper handshake may create a negative impression about your confidence level and overall personality. Man is a social animal. Therefore, human interaction plays a vital role in the social development of an individual. If you do not use effective and proper haptic communication signals, you may invite legal punishment.
Touch is a highly sensitive gesture; therefore you must use it wisely and in a decent manner.  If you touch another person inappropriately, it is a criminal offence. To develop the feeling of warmth in between two friends, touch plays a vital role; common gestures among friends are hugging, patting, kissing etc. However, when you are invited to a social gathering, you greet other invitees cordially with a firm handshake. 









Proxemics
It refers to the distance between two people when they are communicating with each other. Nonverbal signals communicate the message effectively on the basis of how close two people stand when they are talking. The distance differs with a change in the cultural norms across the globe. Another aspect of the distance is the kind of relationship shared between the two persons talking.  









Distance zones
Several attributes are responsible why individuals prefer to maintain a certain distance while interacting with different people in different circumstances. Each range of distance has a special meaning associated with the proximity; distance comes very naturally to human beings. For instance, when you visit a library where you do not anybody, you will pick your book and sit on one corner of the reading table to avoid any communication with the strangers. However, when your girlfriend stands at the door of your house, you will welcome her with a kiss. 
Public distance helps you keep away strangers and anticipate danger. Distance zones can act as a tool to inform other people of threatening actions or situations. For instance, if another person invades your private space, you will realize that you have landed up in danger and the other person has come to harm you.  
When a man and a woman meet initially and implement the social distance when a party starts; by the end of the party, the woman may implement personal distance to express interest in him. 
US scholars and research experts believe that there are four different distance zones that are commonly adopted by people. 
Intimate: the ideal distance signifying an intimate relationship between two people ranges up to 18 inches. One person is overwhelmed by the physical proximity of the other person in this gesture. A threat to the private space is seen as intrusion. 
Personal: The ideal distance of representing a personal relationship ranges from 18 inches to 4 feet. A teacher and student usually maintain this distance range while discussing personal problems, behaviour, and grades. Even good friends maintain this much distance while engaging in a casual conversation. 
Social: A distance ranging between 4 to 12 feet is termed as a social relationship. When you meet your acquaintances at a social gathering you maintain this specific distance. 
Public: When you address a public audience formally, you maintain a distance ranging from 12 feet to 25 feet. If you are an actor or a politician you would be required to maintain this range when you are addressing the audience.  
The role of proxemics highlights the use of personal space constructively between two or more people. Appropriate distance depends on certain factors such as the type of relationship, matter of discussion, and physical limitations when two people are engaged in a conversation. When you look up and down while talking to another person you assert certain kind of status; normally, the person belonging to a higher status looks down on the people belonging to a lower status. 









Geographic territory
Proxemics also refers to communication with other people based on the relative position of the bodies of the people who are talking. Distance zones are also associated with territorial parallels to understand how to use your private space in a conversation. 
Primary: The person owns the exclusive rights of this territory. No other person can invade the private space of the speaker without his or her permission. Examples include your home, spouse, car, and private office.
Secondary: There is no occupancy rights involved in this territory. Some people feel they own the space they use to a certain degree however the space does not belong to them naturally. For example, your favourite seat in the bar, or a spot in the neighbourhood park. If you are in the habit of sitting at a particular seat when you visit the Church for Mass and if somebody else occupies your seat next time, you tend to feel irritated. 
Public: It refers to a territory where anybody can participate but for certain duration only. Examples of such kind of territories include a library or parking lot. A person has a specific time limit to use the particular space, which can be extended for a short while. For instance, you can request the librarian to allow you to sit for another thirty minutes until you finish reading the book. Or, you can pay additional fees to park your car for an extra hour. However, people normally tend to misuse the grace period and devoid other people from using the public space. 
Interaction: when you are engaging in a group activity, this territory refers to the space used by the other participants. For instance, when you are interacting with a group on the footpath, other people will not disturb the process and walk around your group instead of trespassing. 









Angles made by the body 
When you strike a conversation with another person, have you observed how the other person's body makes different angles from one side to another as well as from one direction of the face to the other one? 
When you look at the other person's face directly while talking, it represents intimacy or confrontation. If you are an audience member and all the members look in the same direction it represents interest and attention to what is being said. When you disagree with a point mentioned by the speaker you shake your head from one side to another in order to express disagreement. 
Public speaking requires good control on the body movements. Speech is similar to dance movements. If the music goes on a different tangent and your body movements are not synchronized with the music, the dance will look absurd. The dance moves should exhibit the feelings expressed by the music and song lyrics. 









Stance
The way you stand is an effective way of communicating your real intentions to another person. The default standing positions include standing straight and facing your audience with your head placed firmly on your shoulders and an erect spine. 
When you wish to keep a strong point in front of your audience, you must place your feet at a short distance apart and your hands must be kept on the hips. When you are presenting an award, or giving something, keep one foot in front of you, point your foot straight towards the receiver, and bend your body at an angle equal to 45 degrees. You must not adopt a defensive body language because it exhibits a negative attitude to the receiver. An example of a defensive body language, the most common is fig-leaf pose. Instead, you must always adopt an open stance and appear to be relaxed when you are talking to another person. 









Tips to make a good business presentation with your body language
You may have observed that sometimes when you are amidst a conversation and you want to keep your point in front of the group, you use hand gestures to emphasize the message. For instance, you draw shapes with your fingers to explain about any object; you draw a circle to denote a container. You must have played dumb charades at some point in your life. In this game, you need to enact the name of the movie using hand gestures and the audience has to guess the name. 
You must not put your hands below your waist or cover your face or head with your hands as it gives out a negative connotation. 
When you are giving a business presentation, your palms must be open and facing upwards; in addition, your arms should be placed diagonally in order to greet and welcome every audience member. Upward-facing palms when placed together help in presenting a strong opinion to the audience. In addition, when you point towards the audience with open as well as upward-facing palms it invites suggestions from them too. In this way, the audience feels motivated because it gets a chance to participate in the discussion and the presentation transforms into a healthy two-way interaction. You must avoid making excessive gestures such as the windmill arm gesture. When you wish to emphasize on important points of the discussion you can alter between the bigger and smaller arm gestures. 
You must remember that interaction with the audience helps them comprehend the points covered in the presentation properly. However, there are certain tips and tricks you can implement in order to make an effective presentation. When you wish to make an important point to the members of the audience, you must move toward them to impress upon your argument; you must move forward and backwards occasionally during the discussion. 
Avoid standing behind the lectern throughout your speech; you must move sideways and come out of the lectern to address the audience and involve them in the discussion. Our body language adds more emphasis to the points being discussed during the presentation. 









The power of pause
To deliver a message having great impact, a speaker must learn about the vital role of pauses.  A decent pause allows a speaker to punctuate the content and helps the audience members understand where a thought begins from or ends. 
Pauses help in expressing different emotions and feelings. Proper placement as well as the length of the pauses determines the type of emotion a speaker wishes to express; common emotions expressed with a pause include anger, sadness, grief, happiness, and many others.
You must remember, while giving a presentation or speech, the audience has a very short attention span; the first 20 minutes of the presentation the participants will listen and understand each and every word being spoken. On the contrary, if you do not start your presentation well, the audience will become bored and lose interest in the content. The accurate placement of pauses helps you to prepare content according to the listening capacity of your audience members. 
If you do not include pauses in your speech, the audience members will face problems catching up with what you speak and leads to a lack of effective communication. When a speaker uses the powerful tool of the pause, the listeners get sufficient time to opine, relate with the content, and gain knowledge. Personal connections related to your content form the fundamental principles of effective audience engagement. 
As a speaker, you have two perform two tasks at the moment; an internal task that involves rationale about the content that follows next, and external task of modulating your voice to project your words effectively so that every listener hears those words , implementation of accurate body language and striking a healthy two-way interaction with the audience. 
The internal task of a speaker includes developing the next set of words as well as gestures that you need to perform, and you should have the content prepared in mind thoroughly before you speak because words once spoken cannot be taken back. Pauses help in a way that it enables the speaker to perform internal tasks and create a relation between the words and your thought process. 
A short pause serves the purpose of a comma as used for writing purposes; a comma separates two clauses or two listed items with clarity. A medium pause resembles the purpose fulfilled by the punctuation mark 'full stop', 'exclamation mark', or 'question mark'; basically a medium pause is used to end a sentence or separate two thoughts. The sentence pause continues longer than the clause pause and it is used when you have to make a forceful argument. 
Avoid the excessive use of using connectors like 'and' because it does not provide the semantic break to the listeners, which is quite critical to an effective presentation or speech. You may use the long pause to transform your ideas. Suppose you want to lay strong emphasis on an important phrase or term, you must use the long pause immediately before or after the term or phrase. Along with the pause, you must focus on varying your voice, pitch, tone, volume, and connotation to emphasize on the critical words or phrases. 
When you pause immediately before the key word, it attracts the attention of the listeners, while the successive pause helps in registering the word or phrase in the minds of the listeners. A rhetorical question is one that requires the audience to think and respond immediately. Hence, it is essential for a speaker to pause when you ask this type of questions because it attracts silent participation of the audience members. The listeners get an opportunity to introspect and engage in deep thought process to respond to the question. A good example of a rhetorical question is, 'Do you want to be a success in this world?' end the sentence with a long pause so that the listeners activate their grey cells to answer the question. On the contrary, if a speaker does not implement the pause while asking the rhetorical questions, the speech becomes monotonous and frustrates the listeners.  
Have you ever seen a stand-up comedian perform? Why do the punch lines sound funny? It is because of the accurate length of pause following the punch line. When you crack a joke, the punch lines sound humorous because of the accuracy in the variation in the pace of the speech, its intensity and length of pause associated with it. 
If you pause just before the punch line it creates greater anticipation in the audience that makes your show a success.  It is also said that you must allow the audience to burst out into laughter and stop for a while. Once the listeners finish with their laughter, following the punch lines, you must begin your joke again. The length of the pause is in sync with the length of time of the audience laughter. However, if you interrupt the laughter of the audience members, their attention span will be low. Similarly, you must allow the audience to appreciate your performance through applause; you must remain silent until they finish applauding. An interruption to the applause diverts the attention of the audience. 
Maintaining eye contact is another subcategory and plays a vital role in the field of body language. You must look at the listener's eyes directly to put your point forward. You must look at every member of the audience present in the hall; lock a brief gaze on one listener, and move your gaze to the other person. 
Use facial expression; smile occasionally, the change in your facial expressions will lay emphasis on your content. In addition, a transition in the facial expressions will also transform your voice in order to communicate your views and emotions in a better manner. You may nod to agree or shake your head to disagree; you can also look up to the speaker if you are inspired by the speaker's views, etc. 
If you want to learn more about body language, you must observe the body language exhibited by the actors. Professional actors do not stand still and narrate the story. A play or a film comes into being due to the body language used to communicate the message of the verbal dialogues. Even actors who practice mime, i.e. silent plays communicate the message through meaningful gestures.  Another good example of application of body language in the professional world is sales persons. They explain the features of the product or service to a greater extent through their body movements and gestures rather than the verbal presentation. 









Oculesics
It refers to the importance of eye movements in the field of nonverbal communication. The study involves the contribution of pupil dilation and eye gaze. When a person winks at you or moves the eyebrows slightly, the other person is expressing interest in meeting you or talking to you. 
Eye contact refers to a situation when two persons look into the eyes of each other simultaneously. It is an effective type of nonverbal signal which largely affects a person's social behaviour. Detailed explanation about different eye movements along with their meanings will be explained in Chapter 5.
 










10-12 am- Gestures and their significance
Cultural misinterpretations of gestures cause embarrassment. You must always consider a person's family background before concluding his or her behaviour, gestures, and body language.  
Gestures refer to the visible movements of face, hands, or other body parts to communicate messages, replacing speech or in congruence with the spoken words. It differs from proxemics because gestures transmit specific messages. Different gestures are interpreted in different manner across all cultures, as we have discussed briefly in the previous chapter.
Although few gestures have different interpretations across different cultures, most gestures are associated with a universal meaning along with a certain connotation in certain cultures. 
Gestures are classified into the broad categories including facial expressions, head gestures, arm gestures, and foot position.









Facial expressions
Facial expressions refer to the movement of the face muscles present under the skin. An observer understands the emotional state of a person through the facial expressions. Recognition of facial expressions involves a deep connection between your amygdale and the brain. 
It is an important tool of social interaction and communication. The movement of face muscles creates distinct lines on your face and result in the movement of other facial parts such as your eyebrows and mouth. 
Facial expressions are associated with two neural pathways - voluntary expression and emotional expression. The former involves movement of face muscles from your main motor cortex up to your pyramidal tract that helps in changing expressions, while the latter involves movement of the subcortical nuclei that produces genuine and unconscious facial expressions. 
It is easier to understand the body language of children because of their innocent and subconscious reactions. In addition, the children are quick to react with obvious gestures. For instance, if a child is telling a lie, he or she will put his hands over his mouth; it alerts the parents about the lie. 









Head gestures
The chapter tells the readers about common head gestures that you may be seeing around daily. 
 Head Nod implies agreement; it is an inborn gesture signifying submission. The Westerns move their head from one side to the other to express disagreement. There are two advantages of the Head Nod. To express an affirmative feeling, you will nod your head along with speaking. Head nodding is a great tool to encourage rapport, attract more approvals, and cooperation. Good orators end their speech with an open-ended question to the audience in order to create a positive feeling among the audience.  
The head shake originated due to breastfeeding. When a child feels satiated, it shakes the head from one side to another to communicate that the stomach is full. 









Head positions
  
A basic head position is the neutral or head-up position where the listener bears an unbiased or neutral opinion about what is being spoken. When you are neutral, your head is still and you nod occasionally. If you lift your head high and the chin bulges forward, it is a sign of fearlessness, superiority or arrogance. Tilting your head means expressing interest. For instance, when you are giving a speech and the audience leans forward and tilts their head, it means they are interested in what you are saying. Putting your head down is a sign of dejection or disapproval. People with their heads down generally tend to analyze your statements very critically. 









Head shrug
  
The head shrug is a gesture where you raise your shoulders and pull your head between the shoulders to protect yourself from injury. For instance, if you hear a loud booming noise behind you, you will adopt this gesture and run quickly. In the business world, people use the head shrug to offer submissive apology that saves you from being belittled. 









Hand gestures 
You keep talking while using your hands often. Some people match their hand movements perfectly with their statements to communicate their message properly. Few people tend to overuse their hand gestures which divert the attention of the receiver from the context, while others do not engage much in hand movements when they are talking. 
If you do not use your hands at all when talking, it communicates indifference. The receiver may feel that you are not talking seriously. If you keep your hands at the back, it implies that you are not trustworthy. If you keep your hands open and place your palms at 45 angle it shows that you are broad-minded and honest. Similarly, if you keep your palms down and hands open it displays your determination. When your palms face each other, it means you have the expertise in the subject matter.  If you sit down and grasped your hands in front, it means you are feeling nervous or are hesitant to speak on the topic.









Palms Position
  
The palm position talks a lot about your personality. The palm-up gesture exhibits a submissive and non-threatening personality. For instance, a beggar sits on the roadside pleading people to help with his palm facing upwards to demonstrate he will not harm anybody. When you handover something with palm-up gesture the receiver feels comfortable to talk to you. 
The palms-down approach implies authority. Adolf Hitler is a major proponent of this gesture. If you handover something with this gesture, it will develop antagonistic feelings in the mind of the receiver. 









Leg gestures: what do they mean
The way a person stands or sits talks a lot about his or her personality. The leg movements are a reflection of the actual mental state of an individual. Since, the legs are quite far from the brain, a person is not aware about the leg movements; he or she does not the leg movements consciously  
Actually, leg movements are an accurate reflection of a person's mental state rather than the person's facial expressions. It is because facial expressions can be easily manipulated by an individual due to his or her mental awareness but the same is not applicable to the leg gestures. 
If you are a shy person, you will twist your legs around each other or the legs of a chair to hide your negative emotions. Even when that person stands while talking to another person, he or she will cross one leg before the other, trying to hide the rear foot. 
A seating posture with crossed legs expresses a defensive attitude; it shows that the person is submissive and narrow-minded. 
2 varieties of this gesture are practiced normally: the European leg cross, wherein a person rests one knee on top of the other, and the American Crossed Leg wherein a person's ankle rests over the other leg's knee.  
The latter reflects a competitive or argumentative personality. Physical cues and nonverbal signals are great tools of building a person's attitude. For instance, if you are highly competitive, you will adopt the American Cross legged gesture locked with one hand. It displays self-confidence and also shows that the person is stubborn having an opinion of his own. 
The ankle lock is a common gesture among people. When you are sitting on a chair, you sometimes lock your ankles with the feet drawn under the chair. Alternatively, you may also lock your feet around the chair's leg. A gentleman spreads out his knees along with clenched fists or holds the chair's armrest when he locks his ankles. Similarly, a woman places her legs below her chair along with knees touching each other and with her feet pointing towards one direction only when she locks her ankles. 
Shy women usually practice the gesture of leg twine. The gesture involves locking one foot on top of the other under the knee. Usually, women wearing short dresses implement this gesture as a sign of intimacy. 
When a person stands straight with legs apart, it provides stability. When you stand with shoulder-distance between two feet, it is regarded a relaxed standing posture. Greater width will make the person appear to be confident and grounded. It is also a sign of dominance and power because you cover more area with the increased width between your feet. 









Foot position 
  
People normally think that body language focuses on facial expressions, arm gestures, and hand gestures. Unfortunately, they do not realize the impact of foot position or leg movements while striking a conversation. 
Have you ever noticed when your feet adopt the pointing gesture? It subconsciously communicates that you like the person or the place. Some cultures treat pointed feet as an insult especially if you point using the feet's sole with crossed legs. 
When you place your feet at an outward angle, it is an indirect invitation to the receiver. Parallel feet show that you are not comfortable talking to other people. However, if you point to someone using parallel feet, it means you are talking about that person. If your feet are at inward angle, it is a sign of defensive attitude or awkwardness. 
When you curl your toes it expresses extreme feelings, i.e. happiness or pain. 
When you curl your feet around the chair's leg, you exhibit suppressed tension that may be caused due to fear, anxiety, and frustration. 
You kick someone with your feet in order to hurt the other person. Stamping your feet is a sign of attracting attention, especially when you are angry or feeling aggressive. For instance, if you feel irritated, you tend to shout and stamp your feet so that other people listen to you. Foot tapping exhibits impatience and it becomes a regular habit, if unchecked. You may have observed that this gesture demonstrates superiority, power, and confidence. This gesture demonstrates superiority, power, and confidence when people wait for a train at the station, they tap their feet or move their raised feet like a pendulum. 
Trembling feet movements represent anxiety. Sometimes, people cross their legs and rub the back part of their front leg with the calf of the rear leg; it is done to relax them. When you feel confident or extremely happy, you jump around bouncing on your toes. You may also rock your body back and forth in joy. 










12-2 pm- Learn to decode various different expressions
Many people offer impulsive reactions without noticing the other person's body language. A good understanding of the speaker's body language will help you comprehend the hidden intention implied in the message. 
Human being is a social animal. Thus, he requires other people's support to lead a happy life. However, when you are able to read body language accurately your subconscious as well as conscious mind will be in a perfect sync and you will master the art of communication skills. 
Common body language expressions









Arm-crossing on chest
  
As a child, we learn to hide behind a barrier for protection. You must have also hid behind chairs, tables, or other furniture items when your parents scolded you. But, as we mature into adults, we cross our arms and legs to adopt a defensive approach. 
Crossing arms is an inborn gesture you must have observed when you are nervous, or feeling negative you fold your arms close to your chest to express fear. However, this gesture can have detrimental effects. As a listener, if you cross your arms, you imply that you disagree with the speaker or you are not listening to him attentively. Arm-crossing also implies that you are feeling uncomfortable. 









Double-Arm Grip
  
It is an act of reinforcement in which you prevent exposure of front part of the body. Arm gripping may be tight, which may interrupt the blood flow to the receiver's knuckles and fingers.  You will notice such gestures outside a hospital or a clinic because this gesture provides comfort to the receiver. 









Nail Biting
  
It is a common gesture used by people when they are nervous, stressed or feel the sense of insecurity. It becomes a regular habit with most people unknowingly. 









Hand on your cheek
  
When you are daydreaming, you tend to put one hand on your cheek. It signifies deep thought process. The gesture is supported by furrowed eye brows when you are thinking about something deeply. 









Touching your nose
  
It shows a low level of confidence. Common characteristics associated with this gesture include rejection, telling a lie, or disbelief. 









Rubbing hands briskly
When you feel cold in winters you generally rub your hands quickly to generate warmth due to body heat. However, in the terms of body language, it means you are eagerly waiting or feeling excited about something. 









Steepling
  
This term refers to a gesture in which the fingertips are placed together. Bosses mainly use this body language to exercise authority and demonstrate control over the employees. 









Clenched hands
  
When you smile along with using this gesture, you exhibit confidence. On the contrary, clenched hands can also reveal restrain, anxiety or a negative attitude. When you raise clenched hands it is a sign of frustration as if you will bang the table any second. 









Head covered with hands
  
It is a sign of boredom or maybe when you feel upset and ashamed of an act as a result of which you cannot show your face to anybody. 









Hands behind your back
  
Commonly found among military personnel or leaders, this gesture demonstrates superiority, power, and confidence. When you hold one wrist with your hands at the back it means that you are practicing self control techniques to reduce the level of frustration. When you hold one wrist with your hands at the back it means that you are practicing self control techniques to reduce the level of frustration. When you hold one wrist with your hands at the back it means that you are practicing self control techniques to reduce the level of frustration. When you hold one wrist with your hand at the back it means that you are practicing self control techniques to reduce the level of frustration.









Thumb signals
You must have seen men who put hands inside their blazer pockets and only the thumb sticks out. This gesture shows dominance and aggressive attitude. A man belonging to the high class of the society generally demonstrates this emotion to attract attention from women. 
Common lying gestures 
Stand in front of a mirror and try telling a lie to observe your body language. Otherwise, you may practice this exercise with a friend. Ensure you try consciously and observe the appropriate gestures and body language when a person tells a lie. 
The common micro-expressions include twitching face muscles, contracted pupils, excessive sweating, increased blinking rate, and flushed cheeks along with several other micro-gestures to demonstrate deceit. 









Mouth Cover
  
This gesture is adopted when you try to hide your lie by covering your mouth with your fingers along with a fake cough. An actor playing the role of a criminal, he or she adopts this gesture. The purpose is to keep the conversation secretive or private since it involves dishonesty and deceit. 









SShhhh
  
In this gesture a person places one finger on the lips vertically; usually a mother tries to stop her child from creating a ruckus by using this gesture. A teacher uses this gesture ordering the students to stop creating a noise. 









Itchy Nose
When you itch or scratch your nose deliberately, it means that you do not believe what is being said. It can also be used to disguise your own deceit. 









Rubbing one eye
Does this picture ring a bell?
  
However, when you feel that you are lying, you rub only one eye. It is an attempt of the human brain to keep away deceit or distasteful things out of your view. It can also be used when you want to avoid looking into a person's eyes when you are lying to him or her. For example, when a child breaks something at home by mistake, he or she will inform parents about the incident, rubbing one eye because he or she is ashamed of the act.









Hand supporting the side of the head
When you are feeling bored during a lecture or a conference, you put your hand supporting your head in order to avoid falling asleep. The level of boredom is displayed by the extent to which your arm as well as hand is supporting your head initially, you keep your thumb on your chin trying to be awake and listen. 









2-4 pm- Eyes are mirrors
Eyes are known as the true reflection of our soul. It is said that you can deceive someone with your words, but your eyes will always speak the truth. Eye signals form a vital part of reading a person's thoughts and attitudes. With a little knowledge about reading eyes, you will gather massive information about a person even if you observe the person for few minutes. When you meet someone for the first time, you quickly judge that person's attitudes based on his or her eye movements. Maintaining eye contact with the person exudes confidence in the other person. 
The direction and intensity of the stare helps you understand the person's thoughts. You must have heard phrases such as "Her eyes are inviting", "He has a killer gaze", etc. Various adjectives are associated to describe eye movements such as hard, blank, angry, sad, private, happy, cold, defiant, jealous, piercing, and unforgiving. These adjectives describe the gaze behaviour and the pupil size of the other person. 
Eyes communicate the message accurately because they form the body's focal point. In addition, the pupils are not governed by conscious control. 
The white portion of your eye, 'sclera', helps you observe where the other person is looking, since direction of eye movements tells about the emotional state of that person. A woman is good at deciphering eye movements and its hidden meaning. The absence of sclera would result in humans having dark eyes such that you would not be able to understand whether the other person is looking at you or not. 









The Eyebrow Flash
You normally use this gaze from a long distance to greet someone. The gesture has been adopted since ancient times. An inborn gesture, it involves raid movement of the eyebrows up-down. The purpose of this gesture is to attract attention to your face to engage in clear communication. The signal acknowledges presence of the other person and emanates a feeling of surprise or shock. This gesture is commonly used for people who you prefer or those wanting to like you. 









Glance
  
When you glance at something it means you want that thing badly. For instance, if you keep glancing at your door, it means that you wish to leave now. If you glance at a person means you are interested in talking with him or her. When someone else is talking and you glance at the speaker it means that you are concerned about the thought which has disturbed the speaker. You usually use this gesture when you are not allowed to gaze at something for long. 
The sideways glance reveals interest, hostility, or uncertainty. If you glance sideways with a smile or raised eyebrows it usually communicates that you are interested in a courtship; mostly women use this gesture for approving a courtship. 
On the contrary, the same glance with eyebrows turned down is a sign of suspicion, critical attitude, or hostility. 









Blinking
The normal blinking rate is 6 to 8 blinks each minute. In the relaxed form of blinking, your eyes close only for 1/10th of a second. When under stress, you tend to blink excessively. Extended blinking refers to the unconscious attempt to not appear in front of the other person because you are not interested or feeling bored listening to him or her. It means that you cannot tolerate what the other person is saying and want to shut off your mind from the entire conversation for few seconds.
The people who feel superior tend to look down one's nose to stamp their importance and authority. Basically, upper-class citizens use this gesture to undermine other people from the lower classes. 









Darting Eyes
  
This gesture implies you are focusing on each and every activity in the entire room and exploring to find an escape route. It generally reveals the feeling of insecurity in a particular situation. Especially, if you are bored you tend to look around and find an easy way to escape. 









Gazing
When your eyes focus to look at a thing with great interest, it is known as a gaze. You must have realized that when you look at a painting constantly for few minutes, other people are attracted to look at that painting as well. 
The different types of gaze include social gaze, power gaze, and intimate gaze
Intimate gaze: 
  
Men and women use this gesture to express interest in each other. You look across the other person's eyes and below the chin right up to the lower body parts of the other person. The intimate gaze comprises of a triangular region between the other person's eyes and chest, when at closer distances, and groin and below, when you look at the other person from a distance.
In case, you look into the eyes of the other person constantly, after locking the gaze, you may develop love. However, if you move your eyes to look at the lower parts of the body, it implies lust. Therefore, it is important to understand the direction of the gaze in order to comprehend the emotional state of the other person. 
When you look at the person's mouth constantly, it means you want to kiss the other person. In order to threaten a person you may look at him up and down. It is insulting and expresses dominance. 
If your gaze is locked at the other person's forehead means you are not interested. It implies you are not focussing on the other person and have other thoughts running in your mind. 
A woman has a wider peripheral vision; hence, she can look at a man from head to toe without being caught. Unfortunately, a man gazes at a woman's body up and down in an obvious manner. As a result, a man is always caught ogling a woman's body from close distances. 
Social Gaze: 
  
When you gaze at a person during social gatherings, the triangular region comprises of the eyes as well as the mouth of the other person. It indicates a friendly approach to talk to the other person. 
Power gaze: It is an intense gaze that is used for a short while. It imposes your interest on the receiver and is a non-aggressive method of exhibiting power. 
When you are lying, you tend to look away and do not maintain direct eye contact due to shame and guilt. In order to identify a liar, you must have a strong gaze directed towards the culprit's eyes. 
Ideally, the duration of a gaze differs across cultures; however, sometimes slight glances are also discouraged especially between genders. In many cultures if a person belonging to the lower income status offers a long gaze, it is termed as offensive. 









Power Stare 
  
People having soft and weak eyes generally practice this gesture to exercise authority. When you are facing an attacker, you must avoid blinking when you maintain eye contact. Narrow your eyelids to focus on the attacker at close distances. If you move your eyes from one person to the other constantly without any blinking, it creates an unnerving effect on the person who catches your stare. 
Sometimes, you stare at items available in a store to make the appropriate choice. If you find the best suitable product, you will stare at it for longer and finally buy it. 
Rapid eye movements are a result of recollecting past memories when we think deeply. It helps you think about past events that develop your working memory. It is generally said that people feel good and appreciate direct eye contact. However, when you stare at someone for long, it is offensive. 
Therefore, you must look at whole face of the other person, i.e. the nose bridge, cheek bone, forehead, and hair. On an average, mean read 19 out of 25 signals of the eye gaze accurately, while women score 22 out of 25. 










4-6 pm- breaking down smile language
Smile is the universal language to express happiness and joy. A smile on your face presents you as amiable, who other people can accept easily. Moreover, smiling is contagious; if you smile, the receiver feels good and reciprocates with a smile as well.  You must have heard that you must always greet everyone with a smile.  
Smile is controlled by two sets of face smiles: zygomatic major, i.e. muscles running down the face's side and links it to the corners of your mouth. The orbicularis oculi make the eyes appear narrow and contribute to a gleaming face. The neurons help you recognize faces and the various facial expressions along with offering 'mirroring' effect. 
The characteristics of a natural smile include wrinkled eyes, contracted eye muscles, and stretched lip corners. 









Distinct features of a smile
A person smiles to express strong emotions. When you are extremely happy with a situation, you tend to smile. However, you may also smile as a reaction to the stimulus of fear, anger or embarrassment. A smiling face presets you as an honest and genuine person. However, you should be careful about the fake smile as well. A fake smile appears strongly on one side of your face; it is also called 'smirk'. Liars use this gesture to convince you with their tale, while some fake responses may be an unintentional reaction to insurmountable tension within your mind. 
However, smiling relieves your morale in a tensed situation and helps you see the brighter things of the world. 









Types of Smile
  

Half - smile: When you smile genuinely, it does not follow a certain pattern and you stretch your cheek muscles to a large extent. The real smile appears on the right part of your face. A fake smile is of a specific measure and largely appears on your face's left side. When you form a D-shape by lowering your jaw, you sport the fake smile. It serves as a sign of amusement as well as invitation for others to laugh. 

When you smile without opening your mouth completely, it may be that you are embarrassed to show your improper teeth. Generally, half-smile is a sign of sarcasm, cynicism, and uncertainty

Tight-Lipped Smile: When you stretch your lips tightly across your face, hiding your teeth, it is known as a tight-lipped smile. Your real emotions are revealed by the extent of the tightness of the smile and the number of visible teeth. If you have a relaxed smile, it means you are not much interested in the other person. However, if the tightness of the smile is across your face, you are hiding a secret. Other people may think you as a foolish person and they will have to talk to you unwillingly.  
Drop-Jaw smile: A person learns this gesture with lot of practice. You must drop the lower jaw down to convey that you are playful or laughing. Actors use this gesture to attract happy audiences; politicians use it to win votes. 
Twisted Smile: It displays opposite feelings and emotions on either side of your face. It is a common gesture to convey sarcasm.
Open-Mouth Smile: The person shows his or her teeth clearly long with a relaxed gaze to express joy, pleasure, and happiness. You cannot fake this gesture easily. Crow feet appear in your eyes' corners that make this smile genuine. 
Childish smile: You move your head down and look up with smile on your face and lips closed. You look playful and secretive like a child. 
Flirtatious smile: You smile at the other person without looking at him or her directly to express interest. 
Forced smile: It is mostly used to exhibit polite behaviour. This smile involves only the muscle movements around your mouth. There is no change in your expression of the upper part of your face. You don't even show your teeth; hence, it implies that you are revealing the truth partially. 
Felt smile: The long smile is full of intensity and displays positive attitude such as joy, pleasure, and happiness from stimulation. 

 










6-8 pm- Significance of speech nuances
 
Effective communication requires the participation of right voice and speech. This chapter will discuss about the importance of paraverbal communication; tone, pitch, and speed of what we speak. 
The vocal tone and speech content is a sign of the emotional state of a person, while a dialect or accent can help trace the person's native origin. Each individual has a unique voice. For example, if a person has a hesitant voice, it signifies low esteem; shy people are normally using the quiet voice, and a confident person speaks loudly and clearly with a commanding voice. 









The 'Pitch Perfect'
Pitch is the key element of a person's voice. When you are upset or anxious, you speak at a high pitch, while when you want to communicate a serious or authoritative message you use a low pitch speech. The receiver observes your pitch level to understand your thoughts and emotions. It is important to vary your pitch regularly to grab the attention of your audience.  
You can vary your pitch by relaxing your throat occasionally while speaking. You must explore the different ranges possibly covered by the vocal cords. However, body movements must be well in sync in order to avoid damage to the vocal cords. 
You must have heard old people screaming at a high pitch to express their anger with the unruly behaviour and criticizing the young and modern people nowadays. 









Vocal Tone
Tones combined with different pitches help create various moods. For example if you speak with a harsh tone and low pitch, it is a sign of dissent or disagreement. 
What do you mean by the tone of your voice? It communicates 35 to 40% of your message. It includes the volume, pitch level, kind of emotion, as well as right emphasis on particular words for effective communication. 
Try to say the sentence, "I didn't say he borrowed my book", shifting the emphasis on each consecutive word each time. Firstly, emphasise on 'I', next 'didn't', and so on. You will observe the meaning of the same sentence changes with the change in the emphasised word. 
The emphasised word attracts the attention of your audience; a wrong emphasis may lead to an error in communicating your message.  
You may implement the following tips to create a positive tone that expresses authority as well. 

Speak at a low pitch for some time.
Always speak with a smile on your face to make the listener comfortable and eager to listen to you.
Maintain an upright sitting posture and listen to your voice with deep concentration.
Observe the internal emotions or views that generate while you speak. If you have negative thought, it will reflect in your vocal tone. 










Perfectly-Paced Speech
Effective communication requires you to speak at a proper pace to create the right effect on the listener. For example, if you speak rapidly, the listener will face difficulties in understanding your message. On the contrary, if you speak too slowly, the listener will experience boredom. Therefore, you must adopt a moderate speed when you speak for clear communication. 
The pace of your speech also affects the emotional value and tone of the message. If you speak too rapidly, it exhibits feelings of anxiety and communicates that you are in a hurry. For example, if you are saving yourself from gangsters, you will be seeking help from other people and speak hurriedly. Sometimes, elderly people request youngsters to talk slowly because they cannot comprehend a message at lightning speed.  Slow pace creates an impression that the message is not useful. The natural way of communication is using a moderate pace that allows a listener to focus on the entire message. 
You must record your conversation and observe the pitch, speed, and tone in order to rectify it. Practice the right way of speaking to communicate effectively. 









Accents
The ethnic and regional accents are inborn. Immigration and media exposure has helped in deciphering various accents spoken across the world. Accents are a distinct feature of an individual that contributes to the vocal tone as well as emphasis on certain terms pertaining to that region. 
You must realize how your actual voice sounds like. When you are at home, you feel relaxed and are not governed by the social rules. However, when you are at a public place you are exposed to various ways of speech adopted by people of different ethnicities. 









Breathing
Deep breathing is a major element contributing to correct vocal patterns. You must have observed that you tend to breathe rapidly when you are anxious or under stress. The reason behind rapid breathing is development of tensed muscles that hamper lung functions; moreover, you experience a tensed sensation in your shoulders and neck. When you are under pressure, you inhale excessive air, but cannot exhale properly. 
Two major reasons support the importance of good breathing. 

When you use your lungs to their full capacity, you will develop a stronger and fuller voice. The voice throw will be effortless and you will be able to talk to a person even when he or she is standing a kilometre away, and that too without any damage to your vocal cords. People who have a low voice must practice good breathing techniques to be able to express their views in a social gathering or giving a lecture. Good breathing involves volume generation from the abdomen rather than the throat. Hence, full capacity breathing enables greater voice control and reach. 
Deep breathing follows a certain rhythmic pattern that has a soothing effect. It relieves stress, anxiety, and depression. Yoga and mindfulness meditation techniques focus on deep breathing for relaxing your mind. When you feel relaxed, you are unbiased and feel confident. Reduction in mental stress allows you to think creatively and helps develop a positive outlook towards life. Every religion implements deep breathing and releasing rhythmic patterns in the form of hymns and chants. 











8-10 pm- Emotional outbursts
Emotional outbursts are detrimental to relationships whether on the personal front or in business. However, it is essential to understand when a person will break down because it will enhance your relationship skills. 
Experts of mental health use the term emotional dysregulation to signify a poorly-modulated emotional response, which does not qualify as a normal or regular emotional response. Commonly, we refer to this condition as mood swings or mood fluctuations.
Have you ever seen a person throwing away a pen from his or her desk in a fit of anger? It is a display of mood swing. When you feel extremely angry or frustrated it results in self blame as a result you throw objects around you, behave aggressively with other people, or harm yourself. Mood swings generally occur for few seconds; however, it may exceed up to several minutes and hours as well. It is a behavioural disorder that can hamper your social and professional relationships. 
The common attributes of such mood swings or emotional outbursts can be linked to childhood psychological trauma or brain injury at a young age. Improper treatment such as neglect, child abuse or institutional abuse/neglect may also lead to emotional dysregulation. The factors result in lack of attachment to human emotions. 
You must be well aware of the incident where a journalist flung a shoe on President George W Bush. In public speaking, emotional outbursts are quite common. Emotional outbursts give a hint to the speaker that in the discussion he or she has mentioned a point that contradicts the listener's values or strong beliefs.   
Emotional outbursts reveal emotional and intellectual information as well as beliefs and values of the listener. Some of the tips to avoid emotional outbursts are as follows:

Identify the emotion: Sense the restlessness of the listener early and avoid it to come into its full bloom, otherwise you will face difficulties in controlling the emotional outburst. There are apparent gestures implying unrest or discomfort of the listeners such as clench fist, striking the fist on the palm of the other hand, and other common signs of discord. You must observe the body language of the audience to avoid problems. 
Response: When you listen to the audience's response carefully you will decipher the facts, values and feelings. You may also observe the voice, language, gestures especially repeated words and actions to sense the restlessness.
Slumping, leaning posture, clenched fists or jaws, drop eye contact, rolled-up eyes and turning away are some common gestures indicating the advent of an emotional outburst.
If you observe frustration or anger in the listener's mind, maintain a calm attitude, moderate level of voice tone and ask questions to identify the actual cause of frustration so that you can resolve it amicably. 











6-8 am- Interpreting introverts and extroverts
Commonly, an introvert is a person who is quiet and feels energized when he or she spends time alone. On the contrary, extroverts are joyful and happy to meet people. They are loud and feel energised when they meet new people. Introverts are generally creative, and it is believed that a person enters into a creative mindset in loneliness. You must have noticed that most of the great poets and authors have led a solitary life. While extroverts attract the attention of other people because they have their own charm and charisma. They are good practitioners of persuasion. 
Extroverts love to be surrounded by people. An ideal way of having fun for extroverts is to celebrate with friends or family members.  They are funny and warm people. They like to be the centre of attraction and the soul of every celebration. Since they are charming people, they turn demanding and attract good company. Constant stimulation makes them feel energetic, otherwise they feel bored soon. Hey love to meet new people.
On the contrary, the introverts favour solitary pursuits. They like to spend time alone and cherish pursuing their hobbies. They love people only up to a certain extent and they feel disturbed or upset when other people interrupt their scheduled activities. They do not favour public attention but like to interact with certain familiar faces. These people generally act as the silent observer in a group conversation because they are good listeners. Often, when they listen and offer their counter point, it is mostly very effective. However, you must not feel that introverts are shy just because they do not speak or interact for a long time.









Shyness
Do you feel shy to speak to a person in a party for the first time? Do you introduce yourself to that person or stand in a corner and enjoy your drink? Shyness refers to a reaction generally due to fear of engaging in a social interaction; usually it is a result of a negative incident that took place in your youth. It is wrong to assume that only introverts experience the feeling of shyness. Even an extrovert may feel shy sometimes; for example, singing in a Karaoke competition might excite him or her, but the challenge is to actually go up on the stage and sing aloud.  









Body language
Introverts generally display rigidity; they will sneak out from the crowd quickly and settle down in a quieter and calm place. Even when he or she attends a party, you will find an introvert sitting in the corner of the venue or strolling in the garden, or breaking away from the noisy crowd. They generally adopt closed body postures and prefer to spend time at home compared to social parties and nightclubs. They stand away from the crowd and pull in their shoulders and do not engage in making explicit gestures or animated movements. Instead, they like to listen to other people and observe their actions. They hesitate to maintain eye contact, speak with a soft tone, and do not favour other people's touch. The eye gaze is directed towards their right side. 
Contrarily, extroverts love to interact with other people; they often use handshakes and other expressions of touch such as a pat, high-five, or chest bump, etc. They use open gestures to attract the attention of other people and start a conversation. Their gaze is directed towards their left side.










8-10 am- Relationship cues
Communication is a crucial factor to develop strong interpersonal relationships. However, body language is an equally important factor to test the strength of the relationship. A strong relationship is not just based on words; you must focus on the nonverbal communication as well in order to add fulfillment and satisfaction in the relationship. 









Benefits of a positive body language
Once you learn the techniques of understanding the body language of your partner, you shall understand his or her emotional state much better. Moreover, it is not required that you speak with your partner continuously in the whole day because the nonverbal signals will help you understand when does your partner feel the need of spending time alone and when does he or she wants to spend quality time with you.
Secondly, body language has a huge impact on developing transparency and increasing the trust factor in your relationship. Once you focus on your partner's body language, you can respond directly with the help of nonverbal cues to express empathy, care, and sympathy. Sometimes even thousand words cannot express your message with the clarity and impact that a nonverbal signal creates. 
Often, you may react with negative body language unconsciously, which may hamper your relationship with the other person. It leads to a breach in loyalty and trust. 
Nonverbal cues refer to rapid flow of subconscious communication, i.e. a two-way process. You must be able to understand your own emotions first, prior to communicating your message. Moreover, you must transmit the message in a way, which will help you understand the receiver's response accurately. Hence, you must pay attention to how the receiver reacts when you talk to him or her. Unfortunately, lack of attention does not help you because you miss grasping the subtle nonverbal cues that may lead you to transmit the message in a wrong way. Hence, remain focused and listen attentively to strike a meaningful conversation. 









Practice effective nonverbal communication
Tackle stressful situations in a smart way. Stress hampers the communication process because under stress you cannot control your behavior and gestures; hence, the receiver gets a sense of confused nonverbal signals as a result he or she might feel upset. It is better to talk when you to a normal emotional state and deal with the cause of stress with a positive attitude. 
When you are talking to someone, do not focus on a single nonverbal signal only. While talking, the other person may utilize eye movements, hand gestures, facial expressions, and body movements to express his or her opinion. Hence, you must see all gestures collectively and arrive at a conclusion about the message the speaker is trying to communicate. 









Common body language for women
This part may attract the attention of male readers because they need to focus on the following gestures and observe how a woman reacts with her body language.
If a woman plays with her hair or flicks it while looking at a man, she is expressing her interest in that man. Fiddling is a common gesture along with repetitive glances means the woman is attracted towards you and she is inviting you to talk to her. If she places one leg upon the other and points the knee outwards, she is attracted to the man she is pointing. Another gesture of expressing interest is to stroke her neck slowly with her fingertips. If a woman tries to admire a man, she will rest her elbows on the table's surface, keep one hand on the other, and put her chin down on her hands and look at him directly. 









Body language of men
Courtship signals expressed by men are quite few; it is important for a woman to understand them to read a man's intentions accurately. They offer a response to a woman's invitation for courtship and do not initiate one. Men use prominent hand gestures to display their ego and character. Thumbs protruding from the pockets, pointing to the crotch, adjusting their attire, pointing to the genital frame, and hand on hips, are some of the common gestures displayed by a man to accept the woman's invitation for a courtship. 
Tips for women and women to understand nonverbal relationship cues
If she crosses a man slowly and keeps her legs uncrossed, it means she is ready for a courtship with him. If she does not open up her legs, she is not interested in the man. If she holds her handbag tightly, do not even approach the woman, but if she places it closer to the man, it means she is interested in talking to him. If her body faces the opposite direction to where the man is sitting, she rejects his proposal. 
If you find the keys are hanging from a man's trouser pocket pointing towards his crotch, it means he is exhibiting his strength and masculinity. If he puts hands inside his pocket, he is not interested in a courtship. If he copies the facial expressions of a woman, he is interpreted as attractive as well as considerate. 










10-12 am- Body language in business
As a business owner, you must learn the techniques of body language because you need to meet many people. Some of them may not communicate their business decisions by words, but secretly give you a hint through their body language and nonverbal cues. 
When you meet an entrepreneur for the first time, he or she notices your overall personality, i.e. your attire, grooming, habits, speech, etc. Body language communicates about 70% of the message to the receiver, which creates n impression about your personality in his or her mind. First impression is the last impression. Hence, the receiver must feel positive about meeting you such that he or she will be interested to meet you often to discuss and help in your business.  









Posture
When you attend a business conference or meet your client for the first time, the other person always notices how you present yourself. You must always maintain an upright posture to exhibit self-confidence and trust in your value proposition. The right posture involves pulling the stomach inwards, stretching the chest outwards, keeping your shoulders back, and maintain an upright head position. 
If you slouch or drop your shoulders, it creates an impression that you are not self-confident and the other person will lose interest in discussing the business idea with you. Stand tall always to command respect and announce your presence. Place your feet at a distance of 6 to 8 inches and keep one foot slightly in front of the other to adopt a confident poise. It shows you are balanced and grounded as well as understand the nuances of the business world. 
The most important factor of business communication is to maintain eye contact regularly to show interest and to pay attention on the discussion. If two people form a rectangle while talking, it is a private conversation and the intervention by a third person is not desired. If your feet point outwards, it means you are having an open discussion and invite others to give their suggestions as well. 









Handshakes
Firm handshakes are the key to win business partners. A handshake for few seconds can strengthen or weaken the business relationship.  A firm handshake requires the person to have a strong grip. 
In case, a power player engages in a dominant handshake, you must step forward on your left foot and shake hands. 
If the other person wants to demonstrate power by giving a palms-down handshake, your response will palms-up movement first and then cover the other person's right hand with your left hand. 
However, do not cover the other person's hand completely because it may mean a threat to his or her private space. Usually, politicians use the double-handed handshake. 
If you feel the other person is attempting to intimidate you through the handshake, simply hold his or her hand from the top and shake it downwards. The receiver will be taken by surprise with your response. Do not handshake with cold or wet hands. The main reason of getting your hands wet is holding a cold beverage or feeling nervous. In the former case, you must shift the beverage to your other hand before shaking hands with the other person. The latter case must be dealt with smartly. Wipe hands, if you feel nervous, and then shake it with the other person to create a good impression. 
You must not hurt the receiver's hand by offering a strong handshake. The appropriate handshake is performed in the following manner:
You must hold the receiver's hand with a firm grip. Make a web-to-web contact and shake hands up to three times. You must look into the receiver's eyes constantly while giving a handshake in order to exhibit trust and confidence in the other person. It also develops a positive atmosphere if you get the handshake right. 









Eye Contact
We have already discussed the importance of understanding eye movements in the previous chapters. Eye contact helps develop confidence in the other person because the receiver feels you are self-confident, reliable, and trustworthy. If you speak words that are not in accord with your eye movements, it develops mistrust and is a sign of disloyalty. 
Eye contact also means that you are paying full attention to what the other person is saying. Eye contact helps you to focus on the discussion and enhances your listening skills. You can also invite the other person to start a conversation through direct eye contact. The triangular region of eye contact should be focused on the upper part of the body to express attention and interest in the conversation. Even when you say goodbye, you must look into the other person's eyes and bid him or her farewell. 
The ideal duration of eye contact is 80 to 90% of the conversation. If you do not maintain regular eye contact, it denotes lack of interest, boredom, low confidence, and discomfort. You may glance down some times but immediately you must return the gaze to the speaker. Do not look over his or her shoulders because it means you want to talk to someone else.   









Smile
In a business meeting, you must always greet members with a smile and smile appropriately. We have learnt about various types of smiles in the previous chapter of the book. To create a positive business atmosphere, it is very important to smile to other people when they talk to you. It increases your credibility and highlights a positive attitude about your personality. However, you must first establish your presence and then smile, in order to attract the respect of other business clients or professionals in the room.










Create a positive impact with your body language
The nonverbal cues are monitored by a person's subconscious mind; you may be saying something but the gestures, facial expressions and communicate something else. People who can read body language are able to decipher this thin line of difference and comprehend a person's true emotional state. 
To ensure that you are communicating the intended sense of your message, you must adopt the techniques of accurate body language to match the verbal language. You can practice the following techniques to create a positive impact using the power of the nonverbal cues. 

Posture: When you sit or stand, you must maintain a relaxed posture with a straight back and relaxed shoulders. It displays that you are feeling comfortable.
Space: Give others enough space to make themselves feel comfortable in a group discussion. You must not invade the private space of the other members of the group. 
Lean forward: you must lean slightly towards the speaker in order to express interest in what is being said. It also displays that you are an active listener. If you lean behind when someone is speaking, it expresses boredom and disinterest in the content. 
Hand gestures: When you are talking to another person, you must use your hands appropriately in order to explain a point or lay emphasis. You should not swirl your hands as if you are dancing. Accurate hand movements and the direction of your palms emphasize the words with greater assurance and credibility. 
Arm gestures: Arm-crossing is a defensive body language because it signifies that you are not interested in the conversation. You must practice the art of keeping your hands by the side in a comfortable position or when you are sitting, you must keep the hands on your lap in order to exhibit openness and acceptance. 
Firm handshakes: A proper handshake can create a good atmosphere to strike a meaningful conversation with another individual. It assigns instant credibility and trustworthiness about you as a person whereas weaker handshakes make you appear as a person with low self-esteem. However, you must not shake the other person's hands too hard; a death grip signifies arrogance and qualifies you as a bully. 
Regular eye contact: in a healthy conversation, two people talk to each other and look into each other's eyes regularly regardless of whether you are the speaker or the listener. You need not stare at the other person and should blink or look around sometimes. Maintaining eye contact helps in developing a healthy communication process. 
Taking notes: when another person is talking, it is a good practice to note down the good points of the conversation. In this way, you will increase your knowledge base that acts as food for thought in case you wish to counter any point mentioned by the speaker. It also shows that you are interested in the entire conversation and listening attentively. 
Positive body movements: Affirmative gestures appear pleasant to the receiver. For example, if you wish to express empathy or acceptance, you may nod or smile. Such gestures instill confidence in the minds of the speaker that you completely agree with his or her views and opinions. You may even laugh occasionally but only when it is the appropriate situation. 
Talk at a slow pace: Talk slowly so that the listener can understand the meaning of what is being said. Deep breathing is a good practice to reduce the pace of speech. Hold your breath for one or two seconds, and then speak. Slow pace of speech also displays the qualities of contemplation and confidence. In case you feel nervous while talking, breathe deeply to relax your mind. 
Low voice: You must always speak at a low voice tone and pitch. If you speak in a shrill voice, it determines that you are feeling nervous or under stress. People who speak at a high pitch are less empathic and have low confidence. You do not require speaking at a high pitch in order to lay emphasis on your viewpoint.

 An optimal pitch plays a critical role in determining your personality. Practice speaking at a low pitched voice by placing your lips against each other and repeat the words"um hum, um hum, um hum."









Negative effects of wrong body language

Look down: When another person is talking to you and you look down at the floor continuously, it means you are not interested in the conversation or you are feeling shy to express your views. 
Check time: it is a bad habit to look at the wall clock when you are talking to someone. It means that the present conversation is less important because you have other priorities to complete first. In the case of paucity of time, you must tell the person about your commitment and take that person's leave politely. 
Fiddling around: When you pick at something like your notebook or clothes in the middle of a conversation, it is a rude signal to the speaker because it expresses disapproval, insignificance, and boredom. 
Touch your face: If you scratch your face repeatedly while talking to another person, it will make you appear as a liar. 
When you sit on the chair's edge, it communicates boredom and disinterest. When you are in the middle of a conversation, you must help other people to feel comfortable by resting your back on the chair. Even when you lean forward to express engagement in the conversation, you must lean only your back and the bottom should rest at the chair's back. 
Placement of objects: When you keep an object that obstructs direct eye contact with the other person, it signifies shyness, low self-confidence, and resistance. When you are meeting another person at a café, you must move the items on the table towards the side so that you maintain regular eye contact with the person.
Tapping: sometimes, you may have observed that when you feel bored or impatient, you engage in tapping your foot or fingers. You may also start tapping with the pen kept on a table in front of you to express stress. 
Proximity: You should not stand too close while talking to another person because their private space is being harmed and they feel uncomfortable. It also looks as if you do not possess any social and moral values. The appropriate distances of striking a conversation have been described in the previous chapters, based on the type of relationship you share with the other person.
Blinking: It is a normal action to blink your eyes. However, people consider over blinking being a symbol of nervousness and anxiety. 
Fake smile: it is easy to decipher a real smile and a fake smile. Real smile involves the entirety of your facial muscles and not only your mouth. When you are happy and smile, your eyes glow too. Common types of fake smile are the tight-lipped smile and half-smile. 










Building a good rapport through body language
Sales professionals understand the importance of learning the techniques of body language in order to increase the sales of their company. Customers are attracted towards a product or a service, not only due to its features and due to benefits, but they also have a high recall due to the effective sales presentation made by the salesperson. 
To secure a strong business relationship, you must follow the tips mentioned below.
Eye contact plays a vital role when you are explaining the features and benefits of your product or service to your customers. Eye contact establishes complete concentration, trustworthiness, and develops a strong emotional connect with your potential customer. You may look away for one or two seconds to maintain the natural eye contact and facilitate active listening. 
Open hands help you explain the specific features of the product or service. Palms facing upwards display acceptance; even the customer feels confident that you are trustworthy and not duping him or her. 
Take care about the factor of proximity between you and the customer. Explore your own personal space to make the sales presentation. However, you must not invade the customer's personal space and allow him to raise questions for arriving at a wise purchasing decision. 










Nonverbal signals - Kinesics
Kinesics refers to a form of nonverbal communication. However, it does not qualify as the only method to transmit your message properly even in the absence of speech. Kinesics comprises of body posture, gestures, and facial expressions that will be explained briefly in this chapter. 
Body posture refers to the different positions of the body to communicate different messages. Open body postures cover a huge space and are a sign of dominance, comfort, and confidence, whilst closed body postures communicate the feeling of inferiority complex. When you imitate another person's body posture it exhibits trust, agreement, and fondness. 
Gestures garner a wide variety of phenomena hence Ekman and Friesen have categorized these gestures in their research findings in 1969. The five categories of gestures include emblems, regulators, illustrators, adaptors, and affect displays.
Emblems refer to the use of gestures in place of speech. Major features of emblems include direct verbal translations, familiar with each member of social groups, and the impact of the message on the receiver. These are autonomous gestures and are opposite to manual gestures. Some gestures have different cultural aspects; for instance, a thumb up signifies 'all right' in the US, whereas it is an insult in European countries. However, there are common gestures that are widely accepted across the globe. For instance, when a person shrugs his shoulders it means 'don't know'; a headshake is a symbol of negation; and a headnod is a symbol of affirmation. 
Illustrators refer to gestures to signify spoken words; major functions of illustrators include encoding of complex messages i.e. the speaker's effort to help communicate the message easily without using any gestures. Examples of illustrator include pointing (to give directions), referencing (creating an outline of the picture).
Regulators refer to actions that support the conversation. It includes body movements involving the eyes, neck, and head, posture, and hand gestures. Affect displays refer to the movements of the facial muscles in sync with your posture that signifies the degree of emotional state of an individual.  
Adaptors refer to a series of subtle and misinterpreted hand gestures; these gestures occur unaware. Adaptors are further divided into two categories: the first type involves actions focusing on the body such as scratching, and the other type of gestures involves focus on the object such as smoking or drinking. Earlier, adaptors were meant to fulfill personal convenience that converts into an eventual habit. For instance, a person adjusts the glasses when he or she feels tensed. Generally, adaptors are associated with negative emotions. For example, increase in self-contact, or anxiety. 
Gestures focusing on the individual's body are uncertain representations whilst those focusing on objects are based on the types of information as well as the background of the listener as well. 
Facial expressions are generated with the use of different facial muscles. You must have observed that when you talk to another person, you look at the other person's face most of the time. The nonverbal signals expressed by the listener's face communicate his or her interest or disinterest in the conversation. The direction of the head-tilt brings a change in the way you deliver your message across to the listener. Therefore, you must observe certain facial signals to understand the attitude of the listener. 
As we have learnt in the previous chapters that our eyes play a vital role in communicating our message because of maintaining regular eye contact. However, we must move away our eyes and again develop eye contact to make the other person feel comfortable and not invade the other person's private space. Your forehead and eyebrows also send strong communication signals ranging from surprise up to anxiety and fear. Your mouth also sends significant nonverbal signals even when you do not speak; you can close your mouth tightly, turn it downwards, or smile with your cheek muscles facing upwards.  









Examples of natural body signals
Certain actions of your body parts happen unconsciously and you are often caught unaware. When you face the audience by leaning your upper body forward towards the audience, you are willing to bridge the gap between you and the members of the audience. When you move your legs and feet with a purpose, it means you are shifting from a point to the next one. Arm crossing in front of your chest announces a confrontation to your audience. Alternatively, it may also mean that you are thinking deeply about the response to the audience question.  When you stand still while listening to something means you express interest in that question. 
Several body movements that happen unknowingly; these gestures distract the attention of the audience members. These natural body gestures help in deliver a strong message to the listener however, unnecessary gestures distracts the audience. Examples of distracting body movements include:

Swaying gesture: when you keep moving constantly from one side to another, whilst addressing the audience from the podium, the listeners cannot focus on your speech; rather they start following your movements. 
Walking up and down at a rapid pace: When you move along the corners of the room at fast pace without any purpose, the audience members lose their concentration and look at your movements. 
Repetitive hand movements: When you hide your face constantly with your hands such as moving out hair from your eyes, you are actually distracting the audience members. 










Deciphering personalities
Aggressive: An aggressive person always practices body language that depicts superiority and control over another person. Common body language traits of an aggressive person include

Invading space of the other person
Pointing or clenching fists
Lean forward
Firm jawline
Sneering
Crossing arms over the chest.
Staring

Passive: A person having passive attitude hides his or her actual emotions. Common nonverbal signals found include:

Long sentences
Long pauses


Dull voice filled with monotony
Whining or sing-song voice tone
Clearing throat frequently











Understanding Baby Signs
0 - 3 Months
  
When a baby is born, it communicates through various nonverbal signals in the initial few weeks. If you touch a baby's cheeks, he or she will move its head, extend the limbs, and begin to cry because he or she is startled. 
When the baby touches a smooth flat surface with his feet, he feels like moving a step ahead. Or, when you pat the baby's palm, it will try to hold your finger. A newborn expresses more through its natural reflexes. However, in a period of some months, few of these reflex actions disappear completely, and other responses gradually transform into actions having a specific purpose. Some expressions may not be a response; it may also mean that your baby is happy. 
A newborn baby loves to look at people's faces. When you smile to a newborn, it likes the expression. Similarly, when you look at the baby directly, the eye contact makes it happy. They look at people and feel happy when you people respond to the actions made by the infant. Hence, you must interact with the face of the newborn baby in order to develop a strong bond that serves as a basis for strong and healthy association in future. 
The best way to establish a bond with your baby, you must carry it in your arms when the baby turns three months, and make the baby look at objects so that the baby becomes familiar with those objects and their names as well. 
When you hold your baby in your arms and close to your chest, it feels comfortable and secure. Secondly, it helps regulate the body temperature of the baby and develops a stable heart rate as well. Imitating your baby's actions helps in teaching your baby the fundamental principles of cause-and-effect relationship. You must have seen that a mother imitates the facial expressions, sounds, as well as the body movements expressed by her baby. In this way, the mother learns about what her baby is trying to tell her and the baby responds accordingly to communicate his or her desires. 
In the initial phases of development, the visual system of a baby undergoes several changes. Initially, the baby will not be able to coordinate between two movements and see only white and black colors; moreover, the distance of such objects ranges between 8 and 12 inches. Slowly, the baby starts developing the mental acuity to decipher moving objects and starts differentiating between color patterns. Eye-hand coordination also begins up to 3 months. 









4 - 8 Months
When your baby turns about 4 months, it starts giving out physical signals to express the feelings and emotions. The physical signs are evident because the baby understands the cause-and-effect relationship and correlates between actions, thought, and emotions. Your baby communicates his desires through these signals. For instance, when your baby wants his mother to pick him up in her arms, he will raise his arms; or when he does not want to sit any more he starts kicking his pushchair. 
In addition, he will communicate his interest to play with you clearly. For instance, your baby may throw away his toy when he is sitting on the pushchair, indicating that he wants you to play with him now. Moreover, your baby may also send signals when he does not wish to play anymore. He may turn his head or break the eye contact with you in order to communicate boredom and disinterest in playing with you. Sometimes, your baby may send signals that are not associated with cause-and-effect relationship. 
If your baby is in the age group 3 to 6 months, it will:

Laugh and smile
Cry to seek comfort
Identify faces
Express feelings of excitement through hand and leg gestures
Enjoy watching other babies
Respond to his or her name

The babies under this age group are mobile and alert. They explore the world and learn information acquired by their five senses as well as the other developing physical skills. They develop muscular strength; normal physical actions performed include sitting up, controlling the head, crawling, or creeping. 
The babies try to learn about objects by chewing them or playing with the object itself. They enjoy acquiring new skills; sometimes they may perform the same action repeatedly, which is according to their liking. People around the babies of this age are attracted to watch the nuances of the baby when it attempting to learn a new skill or exploring a new object. Often babies make a sound to attract the attention of the people surrounding them. For example, the baby may laugh in order to call the mother or smile back at the caregiver. Their response system is functional based on the imitation of sounds they hear.









9 - 12 Months
  
Under this age group, a child develops nonverbal signals to express disinterest. Usually, a baby arches his or her back or throws as a signal of protest. The baby can request the mother to pick up an object by pointing towards it using his or her hand; sometimes, the baby might try to reach the object on his own when the parent is caught unaware; it is a signal to call the parent or seek attention.
They will use objects to bang it on the floor, or move consistently with one gesture to seek attention. The usual games parents play with a child at this age are peek-a-boo or sing song, or finger grabbing.  You may have observed that babies in this age group imitate some the actions that we adults perform. For instance, the baby may try to copy the walking style of his parents or talk on the phone in the same way as his mother or father talks on the phone. Usually, children in this group are scared to encounter new situations. For instance, if your baby attends a social event for the first time, he or she will be scared seeing the new people as a result he or she may end up crying due to fear. 
The common expressions exhibited by the baby include:

Happy to see a mirror, toys, or face of the parents
Express love and affection
Respond to commands of "give it to me" and not performing a particular action. 
Responds to his or her name 

Although, your baby understands the command 'no' it is possible that your baby will not obey the command always. For instance, if you instruct your baby not to chew the telephone, he or she may continue performing the action and feels happy. 
It is not always easy to identify why your baby is crying. There is no certain time of the day when the baby chooses to cry aloud. Before learning the verbal language, your baby communicates his or her feelings, likes, and dislikes through body language. Hence, it is essential to decipher accurately what your baby is trying to tell you. 
Babies under the age group 0-6 weeks cry for a long time ranging between 0-5 hours on a daily basis. It is a difficult task to accurately point out why your baby is howling. However, you can try to implement some methods to make your child feel comfortable. 
Our parents and grandparents have told us that we must not attend to the baby immediately when they cry because our response may spoil them. However, the theory does not hold any supporting evidence of children becoming spoilt in this way. 
Therefore, it is essential to understand how your baby is talking or expressing his feelings to you. If you comfort your baby as soon as it begins to cry, he or she will feel secure with you from its initial stages. However, if you do not attend to your baby and choose to ignore your crying baby, it may hamper your relationship with the baby right from a tender age. 









Benefits of understanding your baby's body language
1. It comforts your baby and helps your baby relax. If you react quickly to his or her nonverbal cues, it develops assurance and a feeling of security in the mind of the baby that you care for him or her. 
2. A parent learns what are the likes and dislikes of the baby by understanding the responses given by the baby in the form of nonverbal cues. For instance, if your baby does not like a specific food item, he or she will either spit it out or throw away the feeding bowl. You will also understand how he or she reacts on your behavior. 
3. The baby begins to trust the caregiver who responds appropriately to his or her body language. 
4. Your baby learns about different types of emotions when he or she starts observing the parents and how they react to different situations. Even the baby starts expressing his or her feelings through distinct gestures. 
5. As a parent, you can motivate your baby to develop a positive attitude by imitating the correct facial expressions. 
6. You can identify the different moods expressed by your baby when you start observing his responses to sounds, touch, and sight. 









Different stages of a baby's behavioral pattern

Deep sleep: When a baby is born, it is in this stage as his or her eyes are still and closed. A new life breathes into this huge world; he or she is startled when it comes out of the mother's womb and starts crying due to fear.
Light sleep: In this stage, the baby opens its eyes for a short while; it moves a bit, shakes a little, expresses surprise, and performs the sucking movement occasionally. This stage is also known s the REM sleep or Rapid Eye Movement sleep.
Drowsy: The baby keeps on dozing off to sleep after few minutes. The eyes open often and he or she moves smoothly.
Alert: The baby is still and focuses on every object and person surrounding him or her.
Activity: The eyes of the baby sparkle with excitement. Your baby will move around the house swiftly and sometimes may act fussy.
Crying: Your baby begins to howl in this stage. He or she moves around vigorously and it is difficult to comfort the baby. 












12-4 pm- Some useful tips
Body language assists the communication process in two ways - your own gestures and body language exhibits your emotions to other people; secondly, you understand what other people are saying by reading their body language.  The communication of nonverbal cues and gestures occurs subconsciously. 
Following tips will help you read and understand the importance of accurate body language techniques. 









Power pose
Strike a power pose to display self-confidence. Stand tall, lean forward slightly, place your hands firmly on the desk, open palms, are some of the common gestures to strike a power pose. This gesture increases the production of testosterone and reduces your stress level when you are talking to your boss or attending a business conference. It also makes you risk-tolerant and you feel powerful and authoritative.  









Listening skills
Multitasking is a great deterrent to the communication process. When you want others to participate in the discussion, you should listen to other members' views and then offer your own opinion. Focus and maintain eye contact with the speaker. Turn your head as well as torso towards the speaker, lean forward, nod to express agreement with the speaker's views, or tilt your head to one side to exhibit concentration and attention. These gestures will motivate the speaker to share his or her opinion. Moreover, the speaker will also invite your suggestions as well if you listen properly. 









Barriers to effective communication
Avoid communication barriers such as noise, physical obstruction, blocking other's view, and fidgeting. A collaborative effort is one that facilitates smooth flow of transmission of messages. Your body language can also exhibit hidden communication barriers. For instance, arm crossing is a sign of defensiveness, skepticism, or being judgmental, that may hamper your conversation. If you do not maintain proper eye contact, the speaker may feel that you are not interested in the discussion; it creates mistrust, as the gesture is a sign of lying. 
Firm handshake, smile, and regular nods are useful to strike a meaningful conversation and attract more people. 









Handshake
The strongest nonverbal signal for a conversation is the touch signal. When you pat someone lightly, or offer a firm handshake to the other person it is quite effective to create a strong relationship with the person. The ideal duration for a handshake is 40% of one second to encourage a healthy business relationship. The tradition of handshakes is a tried and tested method to develop long-term relationships in the business world. 









Smile
A smile on your face expresses a positive attitude about your personality as well as promotes your health and well-being. The accurate distance of stretching your face muscles and corners of your lips indicates cooperation and trust along with communicating that a person is approachable. You should smile genuinely, i.e. your eyes must wrinkle inwards, and cheek muscles should be stretched completely to form the open-mouth smile, which is the most genuine type of smile. Since smile is infectious, when you smile the receiver will automatically return a positive response. 









Mirror body language
The universal form of showing agreement in the business world is to mirror the speaker's body language. However, it should look natural and intentional otherwise, the speaker may be offended. 









Hand gestures
Use appropriate hand gestures to communicate your verbal language effectively. You must have observed that when you express a point that you feel strongly about, you tend to adopt animated gestures. However, you must not overdo it to avoid disinterest and boredom. Your verbal content becomes highly effective when you use physical movements to assert your point. 









Leg and foot movement
Along with hand gestures, facial expressions, and body postures, you should also focus on the leg and foot movements of the other person because these gestures occur unconsciously. Foot tapping is a common way of expressing boredom. 









Moderate voice and speech
You can master the skills of maintaining a moderate speech by controlling the pitch, speed, and tone of your speech. Moreover, you must also speak clearly. Sometimes, you do not end the sentences clearly and say the last word of the sentence in your mind. Speak clearly up to the last word of the sentence. Use the correct pronunciation to transmit your message effectively. 









Retention power
When you are attending a business conference, you must listen to the speaker attentively to increase your memory. Do not cross your arms or legs to avoid lack of interest in the topic. If you are attracted towards adopting the defensive signals, break away from the discussion for few minutes, have a cup of coffee, and join back the discussion with a fresh approach. 









Thought process
When you are listening, it is obvious that some thoughts will rise in your mind too in relation to the topic. You must not speak impulsively; instead, you must take some time gather your thoughts, organize them in a proper order, and then express your views on the topic. Moreover, you must not interrupt the speaker because it is a rude gesture. Allow the speaker to complete his views and then present your opinion. You can meanwhile take notes of the points mentioned so that it gives you a clear perspective about the speaker's views. 
When a speaker is talking you must look at him directly to express attentiveness, glance away for few seconds to gather your thoughts, and resume eye contact to present your views. 










Conclusion
"Body language is a very powerful tool. We had body language before we had speech, and apparently, 80% of what you understand in a conversation is read through the body, not the words." - Deborah Bull
Body language plays a crucial role in leadership and management along with other functions of the business world. It is an effective tool to develop a strong and healthy relationship with other people.
Even on the personal front, you can develop a long-term romantic relationship if you read your partner's body language well. Observe the micro expressions to understand the emotional state of your partner. 
Readers learn about the importance of body language in the following aspects:

How do you win business clients?
How do you present a positive attitude to other people?
How do you win the confidence and trust of your partner?
How do you avoid threatening gestures and body language?
How can you fake a smile?
What is the extent of exhibiting your emotions through body language?

You must always remember that excess of anything is harmful. If you overdo a specific gesture for a long period, it will communicate lack of interest or boredom. It may also lead to suspicion in the receiver's mind about your actual intentions. 
Extreme voice levels can deter the entire communication process. If you talk on a high pitch, it will threaten others, while speaking softly may result in miscommunication because the receiver is unable to listen to your words clearly. 
Maintain a positive body language; stand tall, walk upright, offer a firm handshake, nod your head to express agreement or acceptance, have a smile on your face always, speak at a moderate volume, and maintain direct eye contact with the speaker. 
 
















