






Body Language Mastery:
 
Decipher Nonverbal Communication, Body Language, and Speed Read People to Win Friends and Influence People
 
By Michael Draper












Contents
Introduction
Chapter 1: The Science of Body Language
What is body language?
How much can we control of our body language?
A word of caution or comfort
Chapter 2: Talking Body
Types of Body Language
The Feet, Legs and Posture
The Arms and Hands
The Head
The Face
Chapter 3: Five Body Language Myths and Mistakes
You can spot a liar by looking at the size of the pupils, from too much eye contact, too little eye contact, or too much fidgeting...
Having powerful body language means you have power
Being inconsistent with your body language
Do not be over the top
93% of communication is in your body
Chapter 4: Body Language for Effective Communication
Rapport
Dating
Business Interviews
Conclusion
FREE BONUS
SNEAK PREVIEW: The 3 Elements of Practical Psychology
Exercise & Practical Application
 










Introduction
Consider these two near-identical scenarios; they both begin with you sat at a table of your favorite restaurant, it's a busy night and you luckily got there just in time to avoid having to tip the bus boy to skip the line, and you're on the tail end of your main course in deep discussion with your friend about whether to order dessert or not. It's a treat night, why not? So here comes the waitress, she looks down at your table and asks "are you finished with these?" Scenario one: she asks this question with her hands made into fists on her hips, stood up straight, lips slightly pursed, and the words out of her mouth move quickly without waiting to see if you were ready to answer. Scenario two: she is bent over slightly to make better eye contact, she waits for you to finish speaking before asking, her arms wait at her side or perhaps even give a light brush off your shoulder, and she asks with a soft inflection in her voice because it is actually a question and not a rhetorical gesture.
Without any training and just from reading these two fictitious scenarios you can see exactly what was occurring and what these two waitresses were really saying and implying with their bodies. In scenario one the slightly villainous waitress was really saying "hurry up because somebody else wants this table".  In the second scenario she needed you to leave but she did not want to make you feel pressured, after all you might still want dessert. 
Nearly all of us are capable of reading body language, and yet the rules of it can seem mysterious and we all have at one point let our body say things we didn't want it to. Even without being aware of it, you will know that sometimes a meeting or transaction goes very well and sometimes it goes terribly even without the matter of your conversation changing much at all. The reason this happens is often in the body language you, or they, have used. You said the right thing with your face and the person reciprocated with a positive vibe or, on the other hand, you might have had a stressful day and another person could read your aggression merely from the way you were standing. 
For many of us, flimsy body language can cause real problems, sometimes we might appear angry when we are not, other times people might not take us seriously, or they might believe we are insincere. In many cases it is also necessary to fake body language, at one time or another we have to sell something (be it words, ideas or used cars), and we won't believe in what we are selling. Nevertheless we need our body language to say that we do. Luckily it is possible to change how you use body language, and simply being aware of which hand gesture means what and what the twitch of your eyebrows can say, you can start saying what you mean in both your words and body. 
In Body Language Mastery you will be taught how body language works, what you are really saying with your body, and how to use your body, voice, and tone to say what you mean. The book will begin by looking at what science can tell us about body language and how it works in the mind; next we will explore how our bodies work to tell us things, we will then look at common body language mistakes, and finally we will look at strategies for effective communication with body language.









Chapter 1: The Science of Body Language
Just as you've turned to this book to increase your body language, so have many businesses and institutions turned to behavioral scientists and psychologists, along with ample funding, to find out what makes people tick and how body language works. So let's try to get some use out of their findings and begin with the very simple question: what is body language? 
 









What is body language?
Body language is the way we communicate nonverbally with our bodies. That definition may be misleading because generally body language is not taken to include overt hand gestures like the raising of a thumb or middle finger, or the use of sign language - those kinds of bodily gestures are in a way still verbal and direct. Body language is generally taken to be the subtle unintentional or indirect aspects of communicating with our body, even a thumbs-up can be taken as sarcastic given the right kind of smirk. In fact even some verbal communication is regarded in the same sphere as body language because how we say things is just as important as what we way. There is a middle ground here of course - pointing your finger is a direct type of communication, but it can also be unintentional and figuring out what our hands are doing is definitely central to mastering body language. 
Body language is the reading of our eye movements, posture, facial expressions, and how we are moving around to determine how to interpret what we are saying, and at times when we are not speaking, to interpret what a person might be thinking or feeling. Its fine not being nervous in your speech at an interview, but if you are trembling like you're experiencing an earthquake people will know you are putting it on. 
The question of whether body language is intentional or unintentional is a very difficult question to conclude an answer for. There are only a few rare opportunities to ruminate and witness what is happening not only in the conversation but what is happening outside and around you, responses happen almost instinctually and you'll often find yourself saying "that wasn't what I intended to say", and in those cases you may begin to deconstruct your thoughts to figure out what you were thinking at the time. 
Our body language seems to have even less input from our minds than this, which has led to some speaking of a conscious and a subconscious mind. This kind of division is useful for a lot of motivational speakers because it is dramatic and simplistic; your body appears to be acting on its own accord revealing your hidden desires - controlling it would be some kind of hidden secret. The reality is that this division is usually flavored with leftovers of Freudian psychology which is not taken with much credibility anymore. 
For the sake of simplicity it is best to think of the mind as having the bits you are currently paying attention to, and then alongside this there is a great deal of background information and processes working behind the scenes but you can easily focus in on them and alter or change them at your will. A perfect analogy is the way a computer works, normally you would run just a few programs at a time. Certain people would like you to think that your old emails and Solitaire are plotting something against you while you are distracted but this isn't the case. Body language works as part of your conscious mind, as everything you are currently doing does so, but it is also working on certain instinctual levels and working with processes that we do not fully understand - just yet!  
We often hear talk of how much of our communication is down to body language, some figures suggest that 55% of what we say is located in the regions around our nose and eyes (one famous figure suggests only 7% of communication is speech). While these figures vary a lot from source to source, and it's not always entirely clear what these percentages even mean in real terms, it's enough to know that a significant amount of everyday communication is nearly impossible without some type of NVC (non-verbal communication). Consider how we communicate with text messages and online chat systems, it can almost seem necessary to use smiley faces and emoticons because so much of what we say can seem misleading or angry without a mouth or face behind it. A simple question such as "Are you coming to the dinner party?" can sound accusatory without a friendly grin next to it. Consider also how what we say is entirely related to context, it is difficult to even think of an expression that can be said outside of a situation. Take a simple phrase like "thank you", this could be seen as dismissive, disingenuous, a pleasantry, or it could be seen as something extremely heartfelt if accompanied by a hug or tears. 
We might intuitively feel that the strongest indicator of how someone feels, after the words they speak, is expressed in their face, however a recent study suggests that this is not the case. The study suggests that humans are not brilliant at noticing subtleties of emotions in facial expressions and the level of intensity of an emotion is extremely difficult for people to accurately assess from face alone. Just by judging photographs of faces in a study done at Princeton it was revealed that without being able to look at the rest of the body, people were only able to accurately interpret an emotional state 50% of the time. The more we learn about body language, the more we realize how sophisticated it is and how every part of the body is used. Body language - fascinating stuff isn't it?
 









How much can we control of our body language? 
Our grasp and knowledge of body language seems to be both an innate skill and something that is learned through experience. If you have spent enough time around babies you'll know that they can judge from very early on what your face is saying or expressing. Tests done on people blind from birth suggests there are some features of body language that are extremely innate, including extravagant gestures such as pumping both fists in the air when you are celebrating an event. We also know from the study of people that struggle with NVC, such as those diagnosed with autism, our ability to visually process information is crucial to how well we understand body language. Tests done at the University of Durham suggest that people with autism may struggle to process visual movement quickly, including anticipating directions people will move in, and this ties into their ability to match up bodily movement with people's mental states. There may be an extent to which you cannot change your ability to read other people if your brain does not have the capacity to process micro movements in other people and to make predictions and see patterns based on this information. However, it's clear that teaching people to read body language at a higher level is done regularly and often so there is clearly some capability or potential to improve in this aspect of communication. For example, security forces are trained to spot deceptive characters by looking at their body language and characteristics.
When it comes to learned body language, we can see from how it varies across the world that a great deal of what we know is either directly taught or learned from the people and culture around us as we age. The length and intensity of eye contact varies around the globe, in the USA it is important to provide regular eye contact, in some Latin American countries prolonged eye contact can be seen as a challenge, and in some Asian nations only brief eye contact is seen as polite. Even something such as a smile is not as cross-cultural as it may seem, in many cultures it is a sign of happiness, in others it is seen more as a form of agreeableness. Yet, even though these differences persist, it is likely you have experience communicating with people from foreign countries, and you managed to do it fairly well: possibly without even speaking a word of their language. Tests done in the 1970s found that isolated tribes in the forests of Papua New Guinea could easy read the faces of Americans from photographs without any knowledge of American cultural norms. 
What makes all this even trickier though, is that body language doesn't just vary in terms of nationality or region, but also within class, occupation, and even from individual to individual. Everyone's body language is unique and the more time you spend with someone, the more you can read their subtleties: if you've ever found yourself saying "why are you making that face" to a loved one, you know just how specific their gestures can be. 
As with any type of language you develop a personal idiolect, and you develop unique ways of communicating with your family and friends that outsiders would struggle to interpret. This is essentially inside jokes, stories, or secrets that only those close to you would understand. Think of the way a mother knows that a specific signal from her child means he wants his favorite toy, or how a group of friends might have a silly facial expression that they all find hilarious which would seem drastically rude to outsiders. There is enough common ground to make studying body language a worthwhile pursuit for almost everybody, but keep in mind that if you want to improve your NVC for work, you will need to cater what you learn here to your own surroundings. If, for example, you manage a group of builders, the language they speak with their bodies will be different than that of office workers. 
Body language is actually more complex than has already been suggested but do not be afraid! Not only does it change depending on your culture, background, and personal history, but it also changes depending on whom you are talking to. You might find you become Italian with your hands when speaking to your near-deaf Grandmother or you adopt the straight back of a soldier when speaking to someone you are attracted to. 
   One of the most important things to learn about body language is just how quickly it works to convey a message. We make judgments about a person, about their mood, about their intentions, about their interests and personality almost instantly: think about the way you can smell a salesperson out before they've even revealed their true intentions. We can make these judgments about a person, and how they feel, from little more than a glimpse; studies suggest that it can take from as little as one second, or up to a maximum of just thirty seconds, to reach a decision about what is going on with someone else. 
After all of these variables you might be left thinking: how much of my body language can I actually control? You've come this far primarily living in the moment, doing whatever you body has felt like to express its inner emotions, so how could you realistically make changes? The answer to this is a mixture of good and bad news. There is a sense in which it is extremely difficult to change how you react to a situation without a lot of training and mental reprogramming. You can study what all the different gestures and facial quirks mean, but if you're angry it might be hard to give the impression you are not. Part of using body language well is also having a good control of your emotions. This is the major trap often not shared with others reading these types of books, which is that paying too much attention to body language can actually make you worse at using it. Body language is so intuitive that focusing on it can throw it out of balance, similar to how focusing on how you are breathing or walking can make you forget how to do it automatically for a few seconds. 
 However there is hope, because there is an interesting relationship between your body and your mind. Your body communicates what you are feeling inside, but your body can also be made to work in reverse to this. If you adopt the appearance of someone that is happy (by smiling or dancing), or the posture of someone that is confident (by being relaxed and making yourself large), then your mind will believe in what your body is telling it and you will start to feel happier or more confident. 
You can do a very simple experiment of smiling for 20 seconds, even if it is the biggest, worst, and most fake smile you have ever done, you will notice a change in your mood and feelings. If you do it properly and genuinely, you will notice an even greater change. Or you can try the opposite, change your physiology so that it's in a state or slumber when you are really tired, bored, or lazy. Slump over, let your head hang, back arch, body sink, and look down on the floor. You can do this and instantly feel the changes in your body.
Controlling your body language, even just a little bit, works in a positive feedback loop. You start flexing your muscles in the mirror and you feel like a powerful person, then you start acting like a powerful person and your body starts doing all the Superman poses. There is substantial evidence suggesting that just adopting the posture of a powerful person for a few minutes can shift your mindset. For this reason few psychologists actually recommend aggressive or violent catharsis as a way of calming down, and with some honest reflection it makes sense: why wouldn't smashing a plate make you feel less angry? If you therefore learn how body language works, and spend some time paying attention to what you do, then you can change how others react to you, and how you feel about yourself.
It is also possible to change how you act, feel, and behave by consciously changing your behavior. Just as all the elements of driving a car come together as second nature after you've been driving for a while, so to can adopting positive body language in response to different situations change how we naturally behave. Your brain works by making neural pathways: the more you do a certain action, the quicker and more mindlessly it can be done. It may be that you will need to practice self-discipline, or even turn to mindfulness meditation, to better control yourself, but once you begin doing this permanent change will occur. 
It is important to distinguish how we can read body language and how you actually react to a situation. We can measure and study how people react to images and scenarios and from that we can gain a good picture of what the average American, and average person, will do when they are happy, scared, weak, anxious etc. Intuitively it would seem then, that if you could learn how body language works that you might not be able to change it, and hence might not be worth studying. If you are a manager and everyone fears you because you are always angry, then it might mean you need to take anger management classes, because the problem doesn't lie in your body language (it's just you're your body is echoing the thoughts of an angry person), the problem is that you are inappropriately getting angry. However, the story given from the study of body language provides a greater holistic image than this. 
Body language can create a demonstrable chemical reaction in the human body; what does this mean? In tests done with high-power and low-power postures (high-power meaning you make yourself seem big or relaxed, and low-power meaning you make yourself look small and timid), it was found that just adopting a high-power posture can raise your testosterone, while a low-power posture can increase levels of cortisol. Testosterone, when checked by low levels of cortisol, is a hormone that pushes you to take bigger risks and to project more strength; cortisol is a hormone released when your body is under stress so that certain types of bodily functions are put on the back-burner so your body can deal with the crisis at hand. In similar tests with other types of body language, such as smiling, it was found that "happy chemicals", such as serotonin, are released just by acting happy. These are not fake reactions in response to artificial movements; they are real bodily reactions that will make you happier or more stressed, or more timid.  You have likely heard some of this before, but what is important to understand here is that you can change your behavior with repetition and concentration, and this changing of behavior will have an impact on how you feel.  On a smaller level you can also learn how to read body language to evaluate different situations in your life, which will allow you to have better strategies for connecting with people and for understanding people at times where you become blind to body language. 









A word of caution or comfort
You have a general idea now about how body language works, what we mean when we talk about body language, and how the study of body language can help us feel better about ourselves and communicate more effectively and build better relationships with those around us. However, before we delve deeper into how the body works it should be noted what you should take away from exploring body language, and how it should be implemented practically. In the USA in particular there is a fascination with appearing confident, extroverted and almost sharing the characteristics of a salesman in everything that we do in life. Whether we are on a date, trying to get our child into a school or dare I say it, being a salesman or saleswoman and trying to sell something. A lot of the talk around body language is sold as a way of becoming some kind of hyper confident social butterfly: as a way of dropping a meeker or quieter personality which is often believed to be a weaker way of living. It is important to remember that there are loud and quiet ways of being powerful, happy, or confident and it is important to remember there is no right way of doing things when you are talking about communication (no pun intended). 
You should not attempt to use body language to try and turn yourself into a Hollywood image of what a successful person is; instead you should try to become a successful version of who you are. In some body language circles you might be taught to "fake it till you make it", or "fake it till you become it",  so, for example, if you have to give a speech you should act like a confident person in body language, then you will become a confident person in actuality. This is excellent advice, but you cannot forget that building confidence isn't as important as having a reason to be confident. To stick to the speech example, it is most important to work out some excellent content for your speech, and to deliver that speech in a way that suits your personality. Becoming confident will help you actualize this vision, but you should not try to act like a finger-snapping motivational speaker such as Tony Robbins or Les Brown if that isn't how you would naturally speak in public. 
We can become so spellbound by the idea of using things like body language to do well in certain scenarios such as job interviews that we forget to actually work on a good CV or work out what we want to convey in the interview. Confident body language is the product of a confident mind and you can use your knowledge of your body language to help make that the case, but you cannot truly be confident if you have no reason to be. At the same time, you don't have to hold a fear that improving your understanding of body language will make you more fake, on the contrary, by having stronger body language skills you will make deeper and more honest connections with people, and you will be able to express yourself fully. 










Chapter 2: Talking Body
In this section of the book you will be given a guided tour of your body and how each part of it, from your toes to your ears, communicates different feelings or thoughts to other people. It is possible to use this information to read other people, but keep in mind that other people lie with their bodies frequently, often without knowing they are doing it, and it is very possible that the same expression can mean different things. Tears are a classic example of a type of body language that can mean many different things, even though a person might still have the same shiny cheeks and runny nose. 
When you are reading through this section try to consider how your own body language works and begin taking note of it and observe how other people behave. If you have a lot of self-awareness then you should try to see your body in action, if you are laughing at a television show try to note how you are moving your face and chest. Observing others, especially if they are not being guarded and weary of being watched, is also very helpful to study body language in different scenarios and situations. 
Try to be realistic about what can be achieved with body language. It may be that people show their wrists when they are vulnerable, but they may also just have itchy wrists, and not everyone is identical. It is best not to judge others by their body language if you can avoid it, if someone is clearly annoyed with you in their face and shoulders, but they say they are not it is possible they are being "polite". Appreciate what they are trying to do and try to fix the cause of their annoyance rather than causing a confrontation. 









Types of Body Language
There are many different types of body language so it is worth beginning by just looking at how they can be broken down into ways that make them simpler to understand. At the beginning of this book we discussed intentional and unintentional gestures and how much we control consciously when communicating. Those terms will be used here on out to distinguish between the kinds of gestures we know we are doing from the ones we may not be so aware of. I could easily tell you that I was intentionally pointing my finger at you, but I might struggle to notice my foot bouncing up and down because it was being done unintentionally. With this definition, unintentional gestures are things such as crossed arms, head bobbing, biting your lip in deep concentration, or the way you may be sitting in a chair. These can of course be controlled actions but we simply want to think of them as being 'out' of control in a natural state when we are focusing more on some other event or action. Intentional body gestures can be seen as an open palm telling us to stop or three fingers indicating three minutes: these are gestures that can easily be translated into words. 
These gestures can be broken down further for closer examination. We have release gestures which are often seen in things like fidgeting or restless knees which are trying to release or alleviate some kind of feeling, you often see people tapping their fingers together when they are trying to remember. Another type is the micro gesture; these gestures can be very difficult to see and are the minute and subtle details. The way an eyebrow is laying on your head or a small ripple of disappointment in the wrinkles around your eyes. Another distinct gesture is the supportive gestures; these are gestures that are made very clearly to support what you are saying: this goes from clear gestures such as hands held apart to indicate size or it could be general hand waving to indicate passion or intensity. Sometimes people wave their hands just because, in an odd way, it helps people think or stimulates different neural pathways. This brings us to personal gestures, these are gestures that only a single individual will have, or will be specific to that person. Personal gestures might be things like the way a person slicks their hair back when they are nervous. One of the trickier categories is fake gestures, not all gestures mean what they seem to mean, a smile could quite easily mean "please hurry up and leave" as easily as "I'm happy you are here". The last type of gesture is non-body gestures; this includes gestures which you do, as well as those that you don't do. For example, personal space is an important gesture but it requires very little in the way of movement, other types of non-body gestures are the way you are speaking or even what you may be looking at.









The Feet, Legs and Posture
We are going to start with your personal anchors, the things that keep you standing up and lead naturally into your posture and what it is saying to the world. These parts of the body are crucial in reading body language because they are not often controlled by people. Apart from occasionally being told to stand straight as a child, people aren't quite aware how they should be standing or how they may guard their feelings by adopting a specific posture, which is more common with the hands and face. However, how we stand or where we position our legs says a lot, just think of the how you naturally stand taller when you're wearing a uniform, suit, dress, or when you are at an important event. If you look sunken and closed in it can even be an indication of a lack of control or sadness. One of the classic symptoms of depression is people walking slower than they normally do. 
When a physical appearance manifests itself in one's posture, you know the person is generally experiencing a strong feeling. If someone has started stomping the ground like a maniac you can perceive that as someone attempting to scare you or someone releasing built up tension or anger. Closely related to the sad slouch though, is the happy and relaxed slouch. It's easy to spot the difference from the general energy of the person. If the shoulders are pushed back and the face is open then it is a sign someone is happy. If you are struggling to see their face then it is likely they are sad. If you are feeling sad you can go some way to reversing it by intentionally breathing deep and gently, and trying to dissolve your negativity by focusing outside of yourself as well as adopting a posture that opens your chest up to the world and makes you stand taller.
Whether a person is simply standing or sitting can convey a lot. Standing suggests a person is active and ready to start thinking or moving, you rarely begin something energetic by first sitting down. This is useful to remember if you are meeting someone and trying to make a good impression, if you are standing you are open to playing around with personal space and touching, and it allows for greater use of powerful body language that is unavailable if you are sitting down. Walking is a good way of using the vibrancy of standing and induces quick thinking in some and also puts the other person at ease by avoiding excessive eye contact. It is also an excellent way of mirroring another person, building rapport, and sharing energy because you have to commit to a similar pace to walk with another person.
Sitting is still a standard requirement in life though, so you need to be aware of what that portrays. It's easy to become too relaxed when sitting, which could demonstrate to others that you are tired or unenthusiastic, you might naturally do this by flopping your limbs around and tilting your head back. If people are in this state you might need to engage them first because they most likely do not want to be disturbed. Power poses frequently come into play when you are sitting, the same inward slouching is often a sign of sadness or powerlessness and something such as rubbing your neck works as a distraction and seems especially weak to others. Contrarily, sitting up straight and spreading yourself out seems powerful, often the more relaxed you look; the more powerful you look. If you sit with knees crossed so that one foot is dangling in the air it can often be seen as a thoughtful posture in the correct environment, it's used commonly by intellectuals and leaders such as Obama.
Whether sitting or standing, leaning towards someone is a good sign that you are interested, and the opposite implies you are not. Something such as a shrug can seem quite weak and flippant, especially if you are being dismissive or purposefully uncommunicative. But, as with lots of body language, just because something might seem deferential or weak doesn't mean it has no uses, a shrug can be a friendly and open way of saying "I don't know" and it allows someone else to feel comfortable taking charge. The key is in the use of a happy face and openness to the shrug, thrown in with palms open gesturing away from the body. 









The Arms and Hands
The hands are one of the most important tools you have for communicating; entire languages are made up of simply different hand gestures. Your arms are also important because they are able to bring people in, or build a barrier around yourself. Your arms are the natural object to use when defending yourself, you naturally bring them up to your face when threatened by a loud noise, and consequently people will see you as defensive if you adopt similar types of arm placements. Hugging yourself is clearly a sign of insecurity, and crossing your arms is something that should nearly always be avoided because people find it a cold or even aggressive stance. Crossing your arms is often used to stay warm or because it is comfortable, but it can also display you are not ready to help out. One alternative is the crossing of arms where the thumb is pointed up and the hands are slotted under the armpit, this can sometimes be a seen as a powerful pose, almost as if you are judging someone.
Learning to avoid closing of your arms can be quite difficult, especially if you are used to putting your hands in your pockets or walking cross-armed. It can be useful to start carrying things, at a party hold a glass, when walking hold an umbrella, or when at a meeting hold a pen, but don't fidget. Wearing layers in the winter is also useful, it generally displays you are prepared and also allows you to avoid having to shiver and warm yourself up. 
Openness then, is the best way to approach other people with your arms. Opening your palms out in front of you shows that you are open and have nothing to hide. This is where the handshake derived from, it wasn't merely a gesture of meeting someone but was to show the other party you weren't holding a knife behind your back. If you can, try to talk with the aid of your hands, you don't need to start making jazz hands but soft miming of what you are saying with your hands is often well received by others. Be careful with your hands when they are at your side, avoid slouching and the appearance of them being dragged around if possible. 
One of the best ways to connect with someone (or destroy connection if done poorly) is with touching. In general in places such as Eastern countries and certain parts of Europe touching outside of a brief handshake is forbidden territory with all but family and friends. You can, however, include some elements of touching to enhance other common types of touching. For example, with the handshake a touch on the shoulder or closing in with the other hand can create a connection of closeness. There is a lot of debate over hard and limp handshakes, but in general a firm but friendly double-pump shake with the webs of your hands touching is fine. 
One thing to consider when touching others though is how it will work to assert your dominance, and this is not always a desirable quality. Touching someone on the back after a handshake can seem very corporate or cold if it is in a more relaxed setting, or among people that are not familiar with that manner of posturing. This is why assessing the audience is very important. The problem is that it can appear calculating, and come across as if you are trying to artificially create a connection. 
It is best to avoid going for touches when you are with someone new and you are not sure how such a touch will be taken. Mastering the friendly shoulder pat with a colleague is something that you have to develop with time. You do not want to get a reputation for being "touchy-feely" and in certain environments there could be legal ramifications. Touching also implies a type of leadership or dominance that may not be appreciated if you are trying to befriend someone. 
Lastly let's consider the hands. The open palm and open wrists is a clear invitation, more theatrical types may enter a room with their palm and arms wide open over their head. It may seem over the top, but it is also immediately inviting. With your palm down pointed towards someone like a healer or magician it might seem quite an aggressive or domineering gesture. Things to avoid are the finger point, and prolonged hand rubbing: a quick pat or clap of the hands is good for generating excitement but don't go too far. Closing your fingertips together, or interlocking them, often has an air of villainy around it, and holding your hands in front of you as in prayer will give a sense of desperation.  
When it comes to using your hands to express things try to understand your audience, lots of hand slapping and clapping won't work for a timid or early-morning audience, but they can be effective energizers in a heated talk. Signals like the "okay" 'O' with your finger and thumb can seem a bit cheesy, and thumbs up can seem childish or patronizing. Try to be sensible and use your hands to convey your point, but don't lose your personality if you are a known hand-waver.









The Head 
The head is one of the most important features because it's one of the focuses of attention when we look at another person. The way we instantly make eye contact with people is quite phenomenal. A little experiment you can personally do is to look at a light briefly so that you have the imprint of light in your vision while you are in a crowded area. Obviously be careful not to stare too long, but what you will find by paying attention to that light imprint is that when looking at people you are drawn like a magnet to their eyes. 
The head itself is an important place for making gestures, next to your hands it's probably the main physical asset you have for indicating towards things. The state of your head's droopiness is an indication of many things: when sad or contemplative you will arch your neck down and stare at the ground, looking upwards and eagle-eyed gives of a sense of power. Take looking upwards too far, or too in-your-face with your chin pointing up and others may think you appear to be arrogant. Thrust it even further forwards and your head becomes a weapon, showing people you are confrontational and angry. The extension of the neck suggests you are focusing on a target and it can be quite a violent and intimidating gesture. 
Looking down and away can be quite a strong message of submission to the speaker or person, it is a look associated with children and even worried dogs. It's a gesture that is used a lot when you are being told off and is rarely a useful way to engage with other people unless it is used consciously and you are trying to stroke their ego. As people age, using the submissive head bow can almost appear aggressive, indicating to the other person they are being too harsh or that you are not going to engage them on an equal level. 
One of the most powerful things the head can do is tell someone off. A slight bow of the head or an incline to the side along with wide eyebrows can show disappointment. If you intentionally avoid looking at someone when they are providing a suggestion it is also a strong indication that you disagree with them. Turning away is also a way of putting a barrier between you and another person; it can be either aggressive or deferent to the other person. 
Head shaking is another way you can communicate strongly. Nodding up and down is obviously a way to reply to a question, but a slight nod is a good way of telling someone you are paying attention. Often people that are meshing well bob along together like toys in a car window.  A very fast paced nod might be an indication you want the speaker to hurry up or that you really agree with what they are saying. The head nod is also prone to faking, check for real engagement if you are not getting any verbal confirmation of what you are saying. Nodding your own head is a good way of emphasizing what you are saying; if you are giving instructions then matching "don't use the fire escape except in an emergency" can be made stronger with a slight but noticeable left and right head shake. People naturally want to copy you, so giving people body language they can mirror which also reinforces a belief is quite a strong tool. Like any body language it can change how you think: get someone nodding along to something you've said and you are well on your way to getting them to agree with you.
A favorite move of teachers is to give a half "no" gesture with a quizzical look to the eyes. This is a soft way of telling someone to correct themselves without outright confronting them, it implies you believe they have the answer or you are waiting for them to get to an answer you agree with. A head toss is an obvious way of showing anger to someone; it can almost be cartoonish if accompanied with a sigh of disapproval and a flick of hair. 
A quick whip or nod of the head is a good way of saying hello, it provides acknowledgement, but usually discourages long conversation and is useful if you've forgotten a name (you won't ever forget a name once you've gotten your free bonus after the conclusion!) or you are in a hurry. If you lean in to a nod it can have an almost "how do you do?" feel to it with a tip of the hat, which can be charming if pulled off well.  
Boredom and interest are two types of gestures that can be read from your head. Propping your head up with your hands can say "I would rather be asleep" if the eyes are vacant or darting, or it can say "I am enraptured by your every word" if you are pushing the chin up for a better view, possibly also while taking notes of some kind to stop you from looking at what you are writing. 









The Face
Attached to that head of yours is the face and its one of the most fruitful and difficult parts of the body to read. Fruitful because it has many opportunities for seeing new things: difficult because it's so quick to change. Controlling your face is also quite difficult, especially if you are consciously trying to do it. Often if you are trying to look interested or closed or impressed it is more effective to just start actually trying to become impressed: if not with the person at hand then something else that is impressive.  
Trying to corner each individual mechanic of the face would take a long time so it's best to stick to specific emotions and work around them. Always remember with the face that there are many causes, what might seem like ineffable frustration could just be constipation. 
Sadness is difficult because it is frequently not displayed intentionally and many of the aspects of sadness may also just be anger that is directed at you. Sadness is often accompanied by averting eyes indicating for you not to look at them, a hand supporting the head like it might fall off, and the beginning of tears or heavy breathing, and the face in general registering a blank expression. There is little need to discuss heavy sadness in the face as it is quite easy to read. 
Anger shares quite a few similar notes, for example there might be a blank face, but often the gritting of teeth is seen, general anger might encourage the avoidance of eye contact but when it is concentrated at you, it is likely you can read it. Generally pulling the face of a bull is a strong indication that someone is angry. Intentionally controlling the breathing is a sign that someone is struggling with their anger.  Sadness, while tense, is often followed through with a sagging mouth indicating a lack of control.
A pair of controlled eyes fixed at you is an indication of control of a situation, and also dominance. Breaking eye contact is trying to leave a situation, it can say a lot of things, and if someone is hiding an emotion like sadness it could be a small cry for help. If you have tense or tight lips it suggests annoyance or that you are holding something back. Being tense is not always a bad thing though. If you happen to see a pout then someone is likely quite angry with you. Pursed lips can mean someone is slightly annoyed, or perhaps just deep in thought; it is good to look at the eyebrows - when directed at you a pursed lip is usually more likely to be anger, however relaxed and vacant eyebrows are likely to be due to concentration. 
Happiness is one of the easiest and safest emotions to recognize: if you get it wrong at least someone is still somewhat happy. The difference between a real and a fake smile is harder to spot, but just by making yourself laugh and then giving a fake smile you can feel the difference in your face. Real smiles aren't often as extreme or as toothy, and natural smiles are felt more in the jaw and in the back of the throat. The eyes are also crucial because you can see in a bored expression if someone is truly happy or not. A fake smile may also cause the eyes to squint more because the muscles are being controlled rather than naturally falling into place. Don't look down too much on a fake smile though as this shows willingness.  
Attraction may not be considered an emotion by some on its own but it is an important element of reading a face: and its one most people are interested in. When someone is very interested in you, or something, their eyes will open wide, almost like they are an excited cat, the head will be leant towards a person and eye contact will not be forced or shy. Pupils may also widen and if so there is definitely some kind of fascination, or evidence of recent drug use. A long fixed gaze suggests interest and if you've noticed eye contact that means eye contact has most likely been made intentionally. Some people prefer to engage with a more sly side glance which suggests you will have to approach that person. A side glance can also be an indication they are not paying attention though.
Repeatedly making eye contact is an undeniable sign of attraction. Eye contact is for many people very important, some studies show that it is vital for establishing trust and attraction in many western nations. However, don't be too quick to start staring people down if it makes you uncomfortable; looking nervous and anxious is not always preferable to uncaring. Blinking a lot is generally a sign of nervousness but also shows increased attention. People struggle to tell the difference between genuine eye contact and someone staring at a forehead, so if you feel you need to pay closer attention then feel free to look there instead. A mouth slightly open can also show engagement with another person. The type of smile you have can be important, if it is too slight, tight or mild then it may be seen as a gentle let down. A slightly lower jaw and open mouth is quite a social smile asking others to laugh along with something. The side glance is matched only by the side smile in terms of coy flirtation.









Chapter 3: Five Body Language Myths and Mistakes
You have a good overview of how the different parts of the body work and how they may indicate different things, but there are also many myths about body language and also lots of common errors in the general public today. This section will cover and dispel a few of the more pervasive ones.
 









You can spot a liar by looking at the size of the pupils, from too much eye contact, too little eye contact, or too much fidgeting...
The truth is that people are actually fantastic at lying to you with their words and their body: the best way to tell whether someone is lying to you or not is to use basic reasoning. If you think about most of the lies you tell it's clear why this is the case. Often you are lying about things you are not sure about or you have convinced yourself are in some way true.
On the other hand, if you know someone well and you have identified their 'tells', which are essentially anchors or actions that they do when they lie, then you can use that as a gauge to determine if they are lying. Everyone operates on habits and most people have tells or anchors they do when they lie, this could be as simple as sniffing their nose, tapping their fingers on the table, or rubbing their chin.
 









Having powerful body language means you have power
It can be very tempting to think like this but the reality is that you will frequently work for people that do not project power with macho stances, but through subtler control of a room with self-confidence and self-belief. These people are unlikely to carry themselves in weak stances, but may not express powerful gestures often. Trying to attain power in a situation where it does not belong to you can wind up with you making enemies or have others feel as if you are overstepping your mark.
 









Being inconsistent with your body language
One of the most important things to do with body language is to be consistent in what you are saying with your body and what you are thinking in your mind. You can only lie so much, and whether or not you are trying to deceive someone, they may begin to think this is the case if you are portraying too much confidence. Not only try to be consistent, but also try to act in character, people don't want to feel you are unpredictable with your body language. 
 









Do not be over the top
So you've learnt which aspects of your body language convey happiness and respect? Don't start trying to use them like magic spells in a video game. Body language needs to be used naturally or else others will think you are hiding something or you are just irritatingly happy or good-willed. Hand gestures should be used sparingly and should not risk hitting other people in the face and your main aim with body language should be to trick yourself into having a particular emotion, not into tricking others that you feel that way. 
 









93% of communication is nonverbal
The 7% statistic was mentioned earlier and it comes from a 60 year-old study that comes from a specific scenario of communication. In newer studies there is not anywhere near such an importance on what the body can tell other people, and other people are not that skilled at understanding others from body language alone. Earlier it was said that you should consider how you communicate with a person that does not speak your language, and while you can usually get by, imagine doing so without any props or context and just solely using your body. If communication was anywhere near 93% of nonverbal cues charades wouldn't even be a game!










Chapter 4: Body Language for Effective Communication
The primary reason to learn about body language is so that you can communicate better, so in this section some of the dots will be connected so you can see how best to do this. One of the most important things to recognize is that others see you how you see yourself: the key ingredient to good communication is improving your mood through positive body language. When it comes to using our bodies to communicate there are, however, ways we can be proactive. 









 
Rapport
The most important part of building a connection with a new person, or reinforcing connections with old friends, is building a good rapport. It's something that is talked about a lot in body language circles because it is the main goal of most interactions. When you are in good rapport you will be responding well to the other person's body language and you will immediately want to be with each other, whether that is in a professional or personal capacity. So how do you build rapport without a natural spark or common ground? You do so with a type of body language known as mirroring and matching.
Mirroring and matching is quite simply what it sounds like: it is you matching the body language of another person so that you immediately build a connection and put them at ease. People tend to like spending time with others on a similar wave-length or with a familiar mindset. Having your bodies in sync will naturally create this. To do this you will need to look at how a person is acting and behaving, are they closed? Open? Do they speak fast or slow? What kind of hand gestures are they using? Try to even look at how fast they are breathing and what kind of personal body space they prefer. You can then try to copy this. You shouldn't try some kind of Groucho Marx mirroring, but just casually adopt a similar posture so you are as relaxed or on edge as them, if they use big arm gestures then try to do the same. Try also to match the speed they are speaking as well as their volume, do not try to match their accent but do avoid using fancy words if they are not using them. For example, if the other party uses the word fascinating, don't start using magnificent to describe the same thing, simply use fascinating and it will make the other party feel as if you are similar to them. You will find that with doing this you can actually start leading so they start copying you after a short amount of time. 
There are things you have to be careful with here. If somebody else is slouching and sad then copying might not help them entirely, instead you should adopt a similar posture so they may start acting more like you, and then open it up and try to smile. Equally if they appear to be aggressive or antagonistic towards you then try not to copy them, but also avoid trying to antagonize them by taking the higher path with a more uplifting type of body language. A good understanding of body language should let you actually diffuse such a situation by being calm and not escalating or feeding the anger of another. 
It is also important to remember that mirroring their body is only a small part of the battle. You do actually need to have some substance to what you are saying or else they may be confused why someone they are struggling to speak to is copying their every move. If things are still not natural try to return to the person later when you have more ammunition.
A good exercise the next time you're out for dinner, shopping, or on the train. Look at other people who are talking or simply people who are sitting next to each other and could be strangers. You will notice how they are in rapport in terms of the positions of their arms and legs, the pace and volume at which they are speaking, as well as how when one party moves in a certain manner, shortly after the other party will follow suit.
People make a general mistake when first meeting someone that they attempt to build rapport with their words by finding a common ground, only after this initial rapport is built through verbal communication do people then get in rapport on a nonverbal level. The trick is to first build rapport on a nonverbal level through body language and then transition into building rapport through verbal communication. 
Another great exercise to try out the next time you are socializing with someone, whether it is someone you've known for a long time or simply just met. Notice each other's body language and you will notice whether you are in rapport or not, generally after five to ten minutes of conversation some level of rapport on a nonverbal level will have been established. If done so, you can begin leading, or as they term it, entrainment, in the mirroring and matching. What this means is that you can move your arm or leg into a certain posture or gesture and continue the conversation, soon enough you will notice that the other party has moved into the same gesture or posture unconsciously. This is the power of rapport.
The strongest mirror that can build rapport is breathing in sync with the other party. This may be a lot harder to do in a business or social setting however it is the most powerful and subtle action to mirror. This is best used for the bedroom with your significant other, try it out and thank me later! Breathing in sync doesn't simply mean the same breath count but also where in the body the other person is breathing, are they shallow breathing to their chest or deep breathing all the way to their abdomen. Are they breathing through their mouth or nose? In what manner are they inhaling or exhaling?
Another important factor to consider is proximity, everyone has different levels of comfortability based on how close or far others are from them in conversation. We all know that one person who loves to get up in our face and practically spit on us as they talk but there are also others who are more comfortable speaking at a distance where we can barely reach them with our hands. 
The second strongest way of building rapport is physical touch, this can build more rapport than anything you ever say. This is trickier to apply in a work scenario however still possible, you may want to reserve this for later until you're more apt and comfortable applying it in social settings. 
If you are on the phone a lot then you'll want to focus more on the auditory aspects obviously such as tone of voice, pace, tempo, volume, terminology and keywords. 
 









Dating
Using rapport is important in a date, but it is also important that you do not live in your head and simply copy your partner. Mirroring is best used when something is not going well and you notice you are out of sync bodily, but do not obviously check out their behavior and copy every single thing they do.  You should try to be yourself as much as you can because it is good to have lots of give-and-take in a relationship, you don't want to spend your time just copying them. However a good connection will ensure things move forward smoothly. 
When on a date it is good to look for positive signals and if things feel like they are going well then continue on the same path, but do not merely repeat yourself or you run the risk of alienating or confusing the person you are with. One of the riskiest factors in interpreting how a date is going is that many of the positive behaviors such as playing with hair or being shy can also be signs of discomfort and displeasure. You should be able to pick apart whether these things are good are bad depending on whether they are directed towards or away from you and whether or not there is a reciprocating energy and happiness to them. As with many of these body language rules it is best to focus on yourself unless you feel a lot of disconnection and then you should take further steps to mirror and observe. Synchronization is very natural when people are connecting so don't feel like it needs to happen if it's not. If you are struggling too much to connect with someone then perhaps it just wasn't meant to be.
 









Business Interviews
Good practice in business meetings and job interviews follows a lot of the patterns already outlined here such as good eye contact, good posture, and avoiding rubbing your face or fidgeting. However, there is a careful power play to keep in mind when in an interview specifically. You need to project power and confidence, but you need to also stroke the ego of your colleagues or potential employer. It is very good to adopt power positions before going to the interview, when walking up to the building keep a good posture and when sitting down take up more space than usual (without being obnoxious) and keep an upright posture. Studies have proven that taking power poses for a few minutes at a time creates biological effects on a hormonal level with testosterone and cortisol. The latter being increased and results from poor poses, and the former increasing from power poses leading to more confidence.
When you are in the room with the interviewer(s) make sure to read how they are behaving. Many interviewers actually feel quite uncomfortable and they are happy for you to take charge with the conversations and steer them in the correct direction. This is not always the case but do not always assume they are in charge and they do not want you for the position. Whether or not you should mirror in this situation can be difficult to judge because you want to build a good level of rapport and you certainly don't want to appear weak or sloppy when they are strong and assertive, yet you don't want to declare that you are equals if they do not feel that is yet the case, and just because they are relaxed does not mean you have to be as well. 
The most important thing to remember is to keep constant face and eye contact without scaring the other person and to maintain a good posture with your feet connected flat on the floor. Keep your breathing regular and let your hands do a lot of the talking so long as they aren't shaking like leaves in the wind. Whatever you do, remember to plan correctly for the interview and to maintain a good level of charisma and body language throughout the entire interview. 









Conclusion
Thank you again for taking the first step towards improving your levels of communication by increasing your awareness of body language and using it to make yourself happier, more confident, and more fulfilled.  
The next step is to start putting what you have learned into action and on the street. Experiment with family and friends to see if they notice you mirroring them or if they respond more to you being positive or happy. The best way to use friendlier and more effective body language is to practice it when it doesn't matter, when you are just buying your weekly groceries or giving someone directions in the street. Once you are used to making those around you happier and more at ease manually it will start to become part of your automatic behavior.
The most important thing is that you use body language responsibly and do not forget that there are other people watching what you do and listening to what you say with your body. Trying to intimidate or take advantage of others with your body language is not a good strategy for being well liked or making long term impressions. A good grasp of body language is not a replacement for strong people skills, a good knowledge base, hard work or even wearing the right clothes and saying the right things. Body language instead enhances these things when done correctly and gives you the confidence and strength to be the best version of yourself possible and to stop hiding behind any bad habits you may have picked up in the past.
Finally, if you found this book helpful at all (or not helpful at all!), then please leave a review for this book on Amazon, I welcome all feedback - positive or negative as I am seeking to improve on this book. Thank you and best of luck, don't forget your free bonus in the following chapter!










FREE BONUS
Your free bonus will provide you with a detailed 7 step process so that you will NEVER forget a person's name ever again. If you're the type to constantly tell others (or yourself) that you're horrible with names then you need this!
 
To claim your FREE Bonus - How to Remember Anyone's Name, Anywhere, Anytime! - CLICK HERE!
 
Please find below a bonus preview of How to Analyze People: Analyze & Speed Read People with Human Psychology, Body Language, and the 6 Human Needs by Michael Draper which is available now on Amazon's Kindle Store! 









SNEAK PREVIEW: The 3 Elements of Practical Psychology
Business and life strategist Anthony Robbins began writing books and conducting full day seminars decades ago and helps millions around the world discover and achieve what it is they're looking for in life. What he teaches and preaches makes intuitive sense and has worked for millions of people. We will be leveraging some of his ideas to help us understand what motivates us, as well as other people. Why re-invent the wheel when someone has already made a successful cart that works right?
Psychology is a rather complicated field, and we're not going to go into great depth on it in this book as it isn't necessary, but what we will do is share with you what is needed to increase your skills of analysis and comprehension. The three elements of practical psychology are a tremendously helpful way to understand how people are wired.
 
(1) What stops us from moving forward is fear. Fear is crucial. Without it, humans would never have lived long enough to evolve into what we are today. Having zero fear of a sabre toothed tiger was a recipe for instant disaster, dismemberment, and death.
 
Things have changed since the Stone Age however and nowadays fears do not play such a crucial role in survival. Despite this, it's stuck around as it has been biologically wired into us and causes emotions ranging from apprehension through to panic in a large percentage of the population. Understanding fear is crucial to understanding people. 
The two primary fears that we face today are the: (1) fear that we are not enough and (2) the fear that we won't be loved. These are both instinctual fears related to survival that plays out in a variety of situations. What used to be a fear that we could not run fast enough to catch a deer to feed ourselves and our family has evolved into a fear that we might miss a deadline at work, lose our job, and be unable to feed ourselves and our family. What used to be a fear that we would be abandoned by our tribe and perish alone in the wild has become a fear that we won't feel loved and valued by those around us and thus feel dejected and alone. 
 
(2) What controls and determines the quality of our lives is the meaning and emotion we associate to things.
 
The meaning that we give to certain events and situations in our lives is molded by three elements. The first is the pattern or habit of physiology we attribute to an event. In simple terms this is our physical reaction to something. So if we slump, head down, shoulders drooped, we're having a low energy response and associating to the event a negative meaning, whether consciously or subconsciously. 
The second is the language we tend to use in relation to an event. This too can be either positive or negative: take 'Why does this always happen to me?' and compare it to 'How can I use this experience to move forward and improve my situation?'
The third molder of meaning is our focus. There are many different elements to each situation in our life, and what we choose to focus on will play a large part in the meaning we give it. Wherever focus goes, energy flows. If you are consistently focusing on what is missing from your life you will act drastically different as opposed to someone who consistently focuses on all the abundance and opportunities they are grateful for in their life. By observing how these three elements play out in others, we can reach a deeper understanding of how they view the world, and how they habitually react to situations.
 
(3) Why we do what we do is based on the Six Human Needs.
 
Human beings have six needs in life, and their actions and decisions are based on meeting these needs; understanding them is therefore the key to analyzing another person successfully. These are crucial and will be addressed later in greater detail and depth.
 









Exercise & Practical Application
What are your greatest fears? 
 
How do these fears affect your behavior and actions?
 
With this in mind, think of someone who you are close to. What do you think they are most afraid of, and how does this play out in the way they have behaved in the past and present?
 
END OF SNEAK PREVIEW
>>> CLICK HERE to get How to Analyze People: Analyze & Read People with Human Psychology, Body Language, and the 6 Human Needs by Michael Draper <<<












 Copyright 2015 by Michael Draper - All rights reserved.
 
This document is geared towards providing exact and reliable information in regards to body language. The publication is sold with the agreement that the publisher is not providing accounting, officially permitted, or otherwise, qualified services. If advice is necessary, legal or professional, a practiced individual in the profession should be ordered from a Declaration of Principles which was accepted and approved equally by a Committee of the American Bar Association and a Committee of Publishers and Associations. 
No part of this publication may be reproduced, duplicated, or transmitted in either electronic means or in printed format without the prior written permission of the publisher. Recording of this publication is strictly prohibited and any storage of this document is not allowed unless with written permission from the publisher. All rights reserved. 
The information provided herein is stated to be truthful and consistent, in that any liability, in terms of inattention or otherwise, by any usage or abuse of any policies, processes, or directions contained within is the solitary and utter responsibility of the recipient reader. Under no circumstances will any legal responsibility or blame be held against the publisher for any reparation, damages, or monetary loss due to the information herein, either directly or indirectly. 
Respective authors own all copyrights not held by the publisher. 
 
The information herein is offered for informational purposes solely, and is universal as so. The presentation of the information is without contract or any type of guarantee assurance. 
The trademarks that are used are without any consent, and the publication of the trademark is without permission or backing by the trademark owner. All trademarks and brands within this book are for clarifying purposes only and are owned by the owners themselves and not to be affiliated with this book.
















