




Your Free Gifts
As my way of saying thank for buying I put
together two amazing free gifts for you.
These gifts are the ultimate bonus upgrade
to this book...
The
Brain Boosting Recipe Guide
&
The
Sleep Hackers Quick Guide
Click Here to Download Now!
Thanks, 
Andy Arnott 














 
Contents
Introduction.. 3
Memory 2.0. 5
Brain Busters. 8
Fatigue. 8
Anxiety, Stress
& Depression.. 8
Smoking. 8
Nutrition.. 8
Thyroid Disorder 9
Hormones. 9
What Improves Memory. 10
Nutrition.. 10
Get Organized. 11
Eliminate / Minimize
Stress. 11
Exercise. 11
Sleep. 11
Understand Your
Attention Span.. 12
Use Your Eyes. 12
Aromatherapy. 13
Environmental Clues. 13
Use Your Voice. 13
Breathing. 13
Marital Status. 14
Memory Tricks and
Tips. 15
Chunking. 15
Association.. 16
Acronyms. 16
Acrostics. 16
Imagery. 17
Daily Practices. 19
Brain Games. 19
Concentration.. 19
Chess. 20
Other Puzzles. 20
Playing Time. 20
Quick List of
Tactics for Boosting Your Brain Power 21
Conclusion.. 23
 
 
 











Introduction
Interest in brain
function and memory continues to grow on a daily basis, be it because of an
aging population or increased demands at work or simply to enjoy a better
quality of life. It was once believed that memory, as well as IQ, were fixed
attributes. You either had a good memory or a bad one. 
However, we now
know that is not the case.
We now know that you
can improve your memory in a variety of ways. They do not require trips to the
doctor or a learning lab. In fact many of the ways you can improve your memory
do not relate directly to using or training your brain.
To improve your
memory and cognitive functioning, you must first have a basic understanding or
how the brain and memory work. You do not have to be a neuroscientist. You just
need to understand some basic principles.
Once you have the
general idea of how the brain works, it is critical to learn about what
negatively impacts the brain and memory. This is what the first sections of
this book are about and it is all about laying a foundation for your memory
enhancement. Once an understanding is achieved, you will learn what improves
your brain from a lifestyle perspective. While you may not be able to make
dramatic changes to every area of your lifestyle to improve your memory and
brain functioning (like quit a high stress job), you will learn ways to help
mitigate the elements of your lifestyle that negatively impact the performance
of your body's supercomputer.
After lifestyle
considerations are addressed, the secondary sections of this book provide a
variety of tips, tricks, and daily practices to improve your memory and
functioning. Again, the focus of these tools is to be enjoyable, easy to
implement, and effective. You do not have to implement all of the suggestions
in this book to see improvements to your brain, IQ and memory.
Even one or two
tricks can provide a noticeable improvement. The goal is to try the tricks and
see what works best for you based on your personal preferences and the reasons
for upgrading your brain.
You will see an improvement
in your functioning by using the tools and techniques in this book in a matter
of hours, not days. In fact, many of the tricks and tips covered can be learned
and implemented in minutes.
Much of this book
is particularly geared towards improving and upgrading your memory, there is a
very specific reason for this. By choosing to focus upon improving your memory
first and foremost you will see a huge layover into the level of your cognitive
functioning and IQ. The brain is all interconnected and improving one area will
flow into improvements in other areas, the most powerful way to do this is to
place a large focus on memory improvement. 
You might be
wondering... can improving your brain power enhance your relationships, your work
performance, your earning potential, your ability to learn easily, your overall
quality of life and even how you feel about yourself? Yes, it can!
Are you ready to quickly
and easily improve your brain, memory and IQ? 
Well, there's no
better time than right now to learn how your brain and memory work so you can
start to change your entire life.











Memory 2.0
Until recently,
memory was viewed two ways. 
One, it was
believed that memory was a fixed commodity. You either had a good memory, a bad
memory, or a memory that fell somewhere in between. 
It was believed to
be similar to other personal traits like hair or eye color. What you had at
birth is what you had to work with, period. People understood a good memory may
become a bad memory for a variety of reasons, but it was not a common belief
that a bad memory could become a better one.
Two, memory was
believed to be located in a distinct area of the brain. A popular notion was
that memory was like a file cabinet, when recalling something the brain would
open up the drawer labelled "memory" and look for the file title with the
memory (say "wedding proposal") and read the file. If a person had a bad
memory, the thought was that the filing system was in disarray or the file cabinet
was damaged causing memories to be lost in the system of the brain.
That was twentieth
century thinking.
In the
twenty-first century, our knowledge about how the brain works has created a new
model for how memory works. We will call this new memory model "Memory 2.0".
Now, doctors and
scientist understand that the brain is not simply a mass in the cranium. It is
a muscle. Like other muscles in the body, the brain and its memory function can
be developed and improved with exercise. In fact, without regular exercise or
stimulation the brain atrophies just like other muscles in the body that become
weak and shrink without use. 
As far as the
concept of the memory working like a fixed object, memory 2.0 does not work
like a file cabinet. In fact, memory is not a discrete part of the brain at
all. While tasks like speech can be traced back to specific areas of the brain,
memory is a brain-wide function. A stroke can cause a person to lose all or
part of the ability to speak or function in particular ways, but a stroke does
not necessarily cause a person's memory to suffer. How is that possible? Well,
memory is tied to connections made throughout the brain. The more connections
associated with a memory and made within the brain, the better the memory
performs, even in situations where specific parts of the brain are damaged.
This is one reason that a person who has Alzheimer's disease can have
difficulty with some memory processes while maintaining a sharp recollection of
distant memories or to those items that have a strong emotional tie. The fact
is, to improve your memory you need to simply improve the number and quality of
the associations and connections you make with what you aim to remember.
Memory, as a
process, is divided into two components: short term memory and long term
memory. Even as a memory is being created it is being processed, and meaning is
being given. 
This is part of
survival. Think about what would happen if a caveman had to stop, experience a
threat, and then wait to process what it all meant before being able to defend
himself. Yes, if we had to stop and think about thinking, the human race would
never have survived. This almost instantaneous processing is indeed part of the
memory process and it is called sensory memory.
The associations
made while in the middle of an experience are connected to previous events and
prior knowledge. The transition from sensory memory and perception to
processing is part of your short term memory process. Short term memory is like
a filter, deciding what is important and what is not, that holds information
for a matter of seconds. If you have ever been in a situation when your mind
has wandered in class or in a business meeting only to be called on to
recollect something the speaker just said, you have used your short term memory
storage of stimuli to reply (hopefully, correctly) with what was just covered.   
While sensory
memory and short term memory quickly decay, a healthy brain has the ability to
store unlimited amounts of information indefinitely. This ability is called
long term memory, which is what most people generally refer to as "memory".
Long term memory uses past experience to inform the current situation and
provides a pathway for the brain to remember the event as an association
between past and present for future reference and meaning. 
Forgetting things,
for a healthy person, is the result of one or more problems related to the
three Rs: registration, retention, or retrieval. Forgetting due to a problem in
registration is because of an issue with how you encoded the information in the
first place. When you forget where you put your car keys, you have not really
forgotten. Instead, you may have been distracted when you put them down, so
your brain did not encode the placement as being important. Similarly, if you
always put your keys in the same place, you may not be able to recall the
moment you put them down in their proper place because the habitual nature of
the act will cause your brain to register the act as not important enough to
create a detailed or lasting memory. 
Memory problems
related to retention are common, especially when reading. When you have to go
back and re-read material, this is not simply a reading retention problem; it
is a memory retention issue. Your eyes may have covered every word on the page,
but you were distracted and the short term memory did not hold the information
long enough to let your long term memory process it for future reference.
Retrieval issues
stem from a mismatch between the retrieval cues you associated with the
material and the encoding of the information you were searching for in your
memories. Retrieval problems often happen in instances where you try to
remember something like a name or film title but cannot. Then later, the
information seems to simply pop into your head. The time between the attempt to
recollect information and the actual remembrance of the material is where your
brain continued to search for the memory and reconcile the mismatch between
retrieval cues and encoded material. That is why it seems beneficial at times
to stop trying to remember what you seek. It is like you are looking to unlock
the door to your memory with a keypad code. You keep punching in different
codes to access the material (retrieval cues) without success, and then after
you relax and stop actively thinking about it, you realize the key to the lock
was in your pocket the whole time. You remembered the proper retrieval cue (the
key), and you got immediate access to your desired memory.
To improve your
memory, it does not take a medical degree. By understanding the basic
components of how memory works, you can begin to maximize your mental
efficiency while beginning to address potential blockages in how you process
information in your long term memory. Your memory is directly tied to your
overall health and wellbeing, so in addition to understanding how your brain
works, it is critical to understand and identify potential problems that can
negatively impact your memory.  











Brain Busters
The brain is the
body's super computer. As a result, the brain can be negatively impacted by a
wide range of influences, some of which are easy to recognize and some that are
surprising. 
While every
possible negative influence on memory would take volumes to discuss, the
following section covers some of the more widely known hazards to your memory
as well as some surprising newly-identified factors. 









Fatigue
 
Fatigue is on the
rise as the demands of daily life increase. As people attempt to fit more and
more into each day, sleep is often one of the first areas where people cut
back. Sleep problems are directly tied to poor performance in both physical and
cognitive tests. A lack of sleep impairs physical performance and causes a lack
of focus that can contribute to memory problems.
A lack of sleep is
not always a lifestyle choice, however. Those who suffer from Chronic Fatigue
Syndrome (CFS) have shown decreased functioning on memory tests. In addition to
CFS, chronic pain impairs memory and affects a person's ability to work, sleep
and function on a daily basis. A study done at the University of Alberta showed
that 16 of the 24 participants that had pain for six months or longer showed
significant disruption of attention and memory.











Anxiety, Stress & Depression
 
A 2007 study in
the journal Neurology in 2007 showed that those who experience negative
emotions, such as anxiety, stress and depression, were 40% more likely to
develop mild to moderate memory impairment.









Smoking
 
According to a
study in the Archives of Internal Medicine, Middle-aged smokers appear
to be at an increased risk of having poor memory. The research also showed that
long-term ex-smokers were less likely to have cognitive deficits in memory and
vocabulary than those who never quit.









Nutrition
 
Vitamin
deficiencies can cause decreased memory function. Specifically, a vitamin B-12
(Cobalamin) deficiency can be accompanied by fatigue and memory impairment. A
deficit in amino acids can also negatively influence cognitive recall. Those
who are anemic or have lower red blood cell counts can have memory problems due
to the fact that red blood cells carry oxygen to the brain that allows for
proper functioning. Without adequate iron in the diet the brain can develop a
mild case of oxygen deprivation that negatively impacts recall ability.
New research shows
excess tofu consumption may increase the risk of memory loss. A study of more
than 700 people aged 52-98 who ate tofu at least once a day was performed by
Loughborough and Oxford universities.  Participants, especially those in their
60s, had an increased risk of memory loss. It has been hypothesized that the
Estrogens contained in soy products (including tofu and soy milk) as well as
the Estrogens found in plastic containers that include the chemical Bisphenal-A
(BPA) are a major contributor to memory concerns. 
Excessive
carbohydrates, including sugars, have been tied to memory issues related to Alzheimer's and other memory impairments.
When blood sugar spikes, the insulin-degrading enzyme in the brain that works
overtime removing insulin cannot rid the body of beta-amyloid proteins. These proteins
degrade brain function and have been tied to memory loss and Alzheimer's
disease.









Thyroid Disorder
 
Memory loss is a
common symptom of an underactive thyroid, according to the Mayo Clinic. Hormones
from the thyroid help control a host of bodily functions, ranging from heart
rate to mood and memory. People with this treatable condition may exhibit only
one symptom, such as memory loss or decreasing mental function.









Hormones 
 
Hormonal fluctuations can cause memory issues. As previously
discussed, Estrogens are believed to contribute to memory problems, and women
experience fluctuations in both estrogen and iron levels on a
monthly basis which can cause temporary memory problems. In addition to the monthly
cycle, the University of Illinois at Chicago confirmed a link between hot
flashes and poor verbal memory among women in mid-life. The study showed that
the more hot flashes a woman had, the worse her ability to remember names and
stories became. A surge in the stress hormone cortisol, which usually
accompanies a hot flash, was cited as the probable cause.











What Improves Memory
First and
foremost, if memory concerns are linked to potential medical conditions, a
thorough discussion and exam by a medical professional is the most important
step to improving your memory and maintaining your overall health. While the
discussion of the negative influences on memory featured both health and
lifestyle considerations, this discussion of what can be done to improve your
memory will focus on lifestyle choices, though you should consult a doctor
prior to implementing dietary changes.









Nutrition 
 
Your brain is a
muscle like your heart and other muscles. A well-balanced diet is needed for
overall health as well as proper mental function. Omega-3 fatty acids found in
fish can help with brain function and memory. Recent studies have found that people
who ate tuna and other fish high in omega-3 fatty acids three times or more per
week had a nearly 26% lower risk of memory related problems according to the
journal Neurology. Omega-3 fatty acids are also available in
supplements. Other amino acids, such as L-Tyrosine, as well as Thiamine,
Niacin, and Vitamin B-6 have been shown to promote brain function and memory.
Foods containing
antioxidants -- broccoli, blueberries, spinach, and berries, also promote
healthy brain function.  Some studies show that drinking at least 8 ounces of
purple grape juice a day can improve your memory.
Grazing, or eating
5 or 6 small meals throughout the day instead of 3 large meals, also seems to
improve mental functioning (including memory) by limiting dips in blood sugar,
which may negatively affect the brain. Make sure it's healthy food selections,
which brings us to another point.                        
Limiting the
intake of food products containing estrogens can also be beneficial. In
addition to the previous discussion of soy products, eliminating or minimizing
the use of plastics containing BPA is also important. Water bottles, take out
containers, baby bottles, and other temporary plastic containers should be
lessened. These containers should never be used to reheat food or drinks, as
the heating process leaches out more of the chemical. If possible, replace
dairy and meat items with organic selections to lessen the amount of hormones
injected through products where the animal has been fed antibiotics and
hormones.
Hydration is also
important to proper brain function. The brain and memory are not as effective
if dehydrated. Caffeine can provide a temporary boost in energy and brain
power, but if too much is in the system, it can lead to impaired performance,
as can sugar.









Get Organized
 
Keep
items that you frequently need, such as keys and eyeglasses, in the same place
every time. Use an organizer or daily planner to keep track of appointments,
due dates for bills, and other tasks. A simple notebook can work just as well
as an expensive organizer. Keep phone numbers and addresses in an address book
or enter them into your computer or cell phone. Improved organization can help
free up your powers of concentration so that you can remember fewer routine
things.









Eliminate / Minimize Stress
 
We live in a busy
world where the majority of people do not take all of their vacation days each
year in order to stay ahead at work, and those who work from home have been
found to do to the equivalent of four fulltime jobs each week. Cortisol levels
increase with greater amounts of stress and negatively impact memory function. While
going off for a day a pampering or going on holiday may be out of the budget,
committing to 10-15 minutes of mediation has been found to increase feelings of
happiness, decrease stress, and encourage creativity. It can be a challenge to
allow yourself to have even 10 minutes of quiet time each day, but meditation
does not have to be a super power saved for a monk in a monastery high atop a
hill. The process of sitting still and consciously turning off the little voice
chattering in your head is meditation. A variety of websites offer guided
meditations for free or a small fee if the task seems too daunting. Another
option is to do a walking meditation, which is simply to get out and walk without
the daily distractions (like phones). 
Also, be sure to
socialize. Studies have shown that both socialization and laughter improve
memory. Even if friends are busy, take time to enjoy a funny show, film, or
book to get a belly laugh and the brain engaged. Laughing also serves as an
excellent way to increase the retention of new memories because the emotion
tied to items is a pleasant experience.











Exercise
 
In line with the
previous discussion of walking meditations, exercise raises endorphins in the
blood, gets the blood pumping, and increases oxygen flow to the brain, among
other benefits. Exercise does not have to be strenuous to see benefits. Walking
briskly 3 times a week for 20 minutes is suitable. Studies have shown that even
short amounts of activity like taking the stairs to work or parking further
from the door can also benefit both mind and body. 









Sleep
 
The
amount of sleep we get affects the brain's ability to recall recently learned
information. Harvard University studies indicate that getting a good night's
sleep can improve the transitional memory between short-term and long-term
memory. Though it is generally believed that seven hours is the necessary sleep
time to function optimally, some studies acknowledge that individual sleep
needs can vary from 6 to 10 hours a night.
While
10 hours of sleep each night may be a fantasy for those with busy lives, there
are some ways to get better sleep. Go to bed and wake up at the same time every night and day. Don't try to
"catch up" on sleep on the weekend. This has been proven as a false notion in
sleep studies. Spend at least half an hour reading in bed and winding down
before you go to bed. Shut off all electronics and items with blue spectrum
light at least an hour before bed. Take power naps during the day, when
possible. They can help you recharge your batteries and boost your memory.
Limit the nap time to 20 minutes. Longer naps allow you to drop into deeper
sleep and may actually cause you to wake feeling more tired if you awaken to an
alarm. 









Understand Your Attention Span
 
As you will
recall, the opening section discussed the nature of "forgetting" things as a
problem of registration, retention, or retrieval. Retention is directly linked
to your attention span. The average attention span for an adult is 20-22
minutes. When engaged in a voluntary task that is of high interest that span
can be increased to roughly 40 minutes. At that time, your brain needs a break
to regain focus. Even in the case of watching a movie that is roughly 2 hours,
you will notice that at certain points, whether in a theatre or are home, you
will seem to get distracted for a few moments. You may look around the movie
theatre or think about something else before refocusing on the film. This is
the biological attention clock resetting.
To increase your
retention, especially when dealing with written documents, you should plan to
chunk your time for the greatest memory performance. Even while in social
situations like a party, taking a break allows your brain to reset from sensory
stimulation and process information for better storage, and later retrieval.
When doing a task that requires memory and is more of a duty than a pleasure,
breaks are even more critical for retention. In such cases, the goal should be
to engage in the task for 20 minutes and then spend 10 minutes doing something
else. If you are reading, engaging in a physical activity during the 10 minutes
is the best option. It does not have to be intense exercise. Activities such as
washing dishes, folding laundry, or simply walking around and getting a drink
suffice. In social situations, changing locations and getting some "air" while
looking at the view or your surroundings will allow your brain to reset without
being antisocial. 









Use Your Eyes
 
Studies
show that moving your eyes from side to side for just 30 seconds once a day
will align the two parts of your brain and make your memory work more smoothly.
Try this trick when you wake up in the morning to help wake up your brain.









Aromatherapy
 
Studies
show that smelling rosemary can improve your recall. Carry around a sprig of
rosemary or smell rosemary oil once a day. The Ancient Greeks even put a sprig
of rosemary behind their ears on exam days to help them boost their memories.
Other memory boosters include basil,
juniper berry, peppermint, sage or clary sage. While at home, the herbs can be
placed in a small pot with water and simmered. Essential oils can be used in
diffusers or combined with water in a spray bottle to mist the area and provide
a brain boost.









Environmental Clues
 
Where using the
loci method involved imagery and visualization, using environmental clues is
about using your physical environment to aid your memory. To use environmental
clues to remember something, you take an item and place it in an unusual
location or position.
Example:
You need to
remember to get a card for your parents' wedding anniversary.
You take a glass
and place it in front of your door. When you go to leave the next morning, you
will see the glass and it will trigger you to remember the anniversary before
you leave in the morning. Another thing you could do is turn your coffee pot
upside down. When you go to make your morning coffee, the fact the pot is
upside down will trigger the memory as well.









Use Your Voice
 
When you need to
remember something, do not simply rely on your thoughts. Use your voice to
reinforce the item through physical and auditory pathways. As the saying goes,
"We learn... 10 percent of what we read, 20
percent of what we hear, 30 percent of what we see, 50 percent of what we see
and hear, 70 percent of what we discuss with others..." The reality is that
mirroring back what you hear is also part of active listening. Not only does it
reinforce what you are trying to remember, the person you repeat information
back to is likely to feel validated for being heard correctly.
Example:
Your
boss invited you to a lunch with a big client. You accept the invitation and
close the conversation by saying, "Union Street Bistro, tomorrow at 11. I am
looking forward to it."









Breathing
 
It helps to deepen
your breathing when you have to remember something by breathing slower and deeper. Deeper
and slower breathing actually changes the way your brain works, by causing the
brain to switch to Theta waves. Theta waves normally occur in your brain in
deep sleep. To activate your
Theta waves, switch your breathing to your lower abdomen. Start breathing deeply
from your stomach. Consciously slow your rate of breathing too. After a few
moments, you should feel calmer with the Theta waves flowing in your brain; as
a result you will be more receptive to remembering new information.









Marital Status
 
On an interesting
side note, for these interested in brain and memory function later in life, an
interesting new finding out of Sweden suggests that mid-life marital status is
related to late-life cognitive function. The study of more than 1,400 people in
mid-life and then an average of 21 years later showed that those who were
living with a life partner in mid-life were significantly less likely to show memory
decline compared to all other categories-single, separated, divorced or
widowed. Granted, marriage may be stressful at times, but it appears that
stress combined with the social aspect of relationships does promote a positive
result in memory later in life.
 











Memory Tricks and Tips
With some of the
background in brain and memory function covered, we shift to more of the
practical ways in which you can improve your memory in every area of your life.
Some of the tips and tricks are well documented to improve memory in brain
research, while others are lesser known tools. You do not have to use every tip
or trick covered to see your memory improve. After trying out a variety of
tricks, most people find 2 or 3 that work best for them in a variety of
situations.











Chunking
 
One of the mostly
widely used memory tricks for remembering random items is chunking. Chunking
utilizes the tendencies of the short term memory to remember a long list of
items by breaking everything up into groups. Both the short term memory and
long term memory work together to remember the individual groups as part of a
larger whole list.
Example: Grocery
Store List



Random List


Chunked List




Chicken
Milk
Bread
Yogurt
Cheese
Crackers
Bananas
Broccoli
Cookies
Onions


Chicken
 
Milk
Yogurt
Cheese
 
Crackers
Cookies
Bread
 
Bananas
Onions
Broccoli



 
Instead of trying
to remember the random items on the shopping list, chunking the list into
groups allows your brain to remember a few items in each category. The
categories also correspond to the major areas of the market, which is part of
the next memory trick, association.











Association
 
The grocery store
list in the previous example used both chunking and association. The items were
grouped into the areas of the market to make recall easier. Associations work
by tying current information to previous information to make recall smoother. 
Example:
            Let's
say you need to remember the combination to a lock, which is: 777122514.
            You
can begin by chunking the numbers in a way that is meaningful to you.
            777
can stand for a jetliner
            12,
25, and 14 can stand for Christmas day
            You
then associate the combination with a trip on Christmas day 777-12-25-14
Association also
works well when meeting people. President Franklin D. Roosevelt used a
technique for remembering peoples' names by imagining their name written on
their forehead. This helps associate the name with the person in your brain. To
take it a step further, learn an interesting fact about that person when you
meet them and put an image of that fact along with the name.
Example:
You meet Jane and
you find out she loves animals. You then associate a gorilla with her name on
her forehead. Now you have associated not just the name and the interest to
your new acquaintance, but you made a further association with Jane Goodall who
is known for working with gorillas. The network of three associations will
solidify her name in your memory.









Acronyms
 
Acronyms have been
used for ages to remember items. Geography students learn about HOMES in
relation to the Great Lakes as in Huron, Ontario, Michigan, Erie, and Superior.
In math, students often are taught "FOIL" to remember how to multiply binomials
as first, outer, inner last. 









Acrostics
 
Acrostics are
similar to acronyms, but instead of spelling out a word or name, the first
letter of each item is part of a phrase. For example, learn the order of operations
as "Please Excuse My Dear Aunt Sally", which is parenthesis, exponents, multiplication,
division, addition, and subtraction. Music students learn very quickly that
"Every Good Boy Does Fine" when memorizing the lines on the treble music staff.









Imagery
 
Another trick to
remembering items that appear to be random is to create a mental picture or a
story to go along with the items.
Example: 
You need to get
your coat from the dry cleaner, take your dog to the groomer, pay the light
bill, and pick up flowers for your date that night.
You create a
picture of you walking your dog at night with a flashlight and your date is at
your side carrying a bouquet of flowers while wearing your jacket.  
Another type of
imagery memory trick is using loci to remember items. The loci method has been
used since the time of the Greeks and is often referred to as the "Roman Room"
technique. Instead of developing a picture of the items, you picture a room,
house, or other building and locate all of the items in that space. As you
travel in your mind around the space later, you collect the items that you
aimed to remember.
You Try It: Roman
Room - Here is your chance to practice the technique in real time. Below is a
list of random items. Use them to create a room where you imagine all of the
items before reviewing the example.
List
of Words to Remember:
Pink roses
Baby grand piano
Mirror
Conch shell
Chess set
Dog
Hamster cage
Umbrella holder
Backpack
Vacuum 
Airplane
Fried chicken
Shoes
Keys 
Stamps
Purse
Fern
Ice cream
Example: 
You walk into
a living room with pink roses on
the coffee table and a baby grand piano in the corner. There is a long mirror above
the fireplace and on the mantle is a conch shell. A little boy sits on the
couch playing with a chess set while a dog sleeps at his feet. A hamster
in a ball travels across the room and the boy gets up to return him to the
hamster cage near the door and next to an umbrella holder. The boy's backpack is open on the carpeted
floor that needs a vacuum. The television screen shifts from a
show about an airplane trip to a commercial about fried chicken. The boy's shoes are near the door
where the mail lays waiting for stamps next to keys and
a purse. A fern is on the other
side of the door when a woman opens the door holding an ice cream cone.
 
 











Daily Practices
Believe it or not,
aside from lifestyle changes that you may choose to make, your daily memory
boosting practices involve playing games and solving puzzles. Engaging in a
variety of games that involve strategy been proven to have positive effects on
memory. There is a biological reward that comes
from the release of dopamine when successfully completing games that boost the
brain. Dopamine release is promoted by performing working memory tasks. Working
memory tasks are truly biologically rewarding. A Swedish study took a selection
of men in their twenties and trained them for 35 minutes per day for five weeks
on working memory tasks with a difficulty level close to their personal limits.
All subjects showed increased working memory capacity. Functional MRI scans
showed that the memory training increased the density of areas in their cerebral
cortex that are responsible for feelings of euphoria and reward. Yes, it is
both productive and beneficial to your brain to play games.









Brain Games
 
A sequence of
stimuli (pictures, shapes, numbers, letters, etc.) is presented. The classic
n-back game or test consists of identifying when a current item matches one of
the items a certain number of steps back. N equals the number of items back. It
is similar to the classic game "Concentration". Instead of having cards in
fixed locations on a table, there is a single item that appears in different
locations on the screen.  1-N means that you need to recall the position of the
previous item. 2-N requires the recollection of an item position 2 turns back,
and so forth.       
There are
variations of the N-Back that have been popularized in recent brain game
programs such as Luminosity, Cogmed, MindSparke, and Jungle Memory. Such brain boosting and memory enhancing
programs are designed to be used daily for less than 30 minutes. Some options
allow the user to build on previous exercises, while other programs begin new
exercises with each session. Interactive options for such brain games are
available online and as mobile applications that are either free or for a
charge. A Dual
N Back Game is also available
that increases the memory demand for further improvement of brain function. 
Other strategy
video games, such as the classic game Tetris, have been shown to greatly
improve brain function and spatial recognition, while memory function is
moderately improved.  









Concentration
 
While the latest
versions of the N-back game highlight the use of computers and technology, you
can benefit equally with the classic Concentration game. You can play alone or
with others and get the same benefits.
If you do not have
the game, you can create your own version easily. All it takes is two decks of
ordinary playing cards. Pair the two cards from each deck. Begin with 5 pairs
of cards (10 cards total). The rationale for the grouping of 10 cards links to
the capacity of the short term memory. When the 10 cards become easy to
completely identify, add an additional set of 5 pairs. Eventually, you can work
your way to matching 2 entire decks of cards (104 cards) if you practice
enough. 









Chess
 
To
play chess well, you have to learn to expand working memory capacity to hold a
plan for several offensive moves while at the same time holding a memory of how
the opponent could respond to each of the moves. Not surprisingly there are
studies showing that memory improves and IQ scores can go up after several
months of chess playing. Chess
has been proven to enhance memory due to the need to keep both offensive and
defensive strategies in mind throughout the course of a chess match. Chess can
be played as part of a social activity that further increases brain activity or
as a solo endeavor using the traditional chessboard and playing both sides or
using a computer, tablet, or smartphone. To increase the level of difficulty
and test your memory skills, keep a game of chess going by only making 3 to 5
moves a day. When you return to the game, you brain and memory will be tested
to pick up where you left off.









Other Puzzles
 
When brain games
come to mind, the most recognizable options are the cognitive skills games such
as the N-Back and chess, yet any type of puzzle activity improves brain
function and memory skills. The popularity of Sudoku games is a testament to
memory enhancement and challenge within the game format. The challenge is in
remembering to think of the lines horizontally, vertically, and well as the
sub-blocks within the larger puzzle. In this way, Sudoku can be seen as more
difficult than chess and especially suited to solitary practice.
Crossword puzzles
are beneficial for memory enhancement due to the requirement to decipher clues,
recall facts, and fit material in a spatial plane. Brain games are not limited
to numbers and letters, even the simple jigsaw puzzle can serve as a memory
enhancer and a test of spatial recognition that fires connections throughout
areas of the brain.









Playing Time  
 
To realize the
benefits of improved brain function and memory enhancement, the brain boosting
games mentioned in this book should be performed for a minimum of 15-20 minutes
a day, preferably every day. The aforementioned Swedish study regarding
dopamine and the biological rewards for successfully engaging in these types of
activities had participants performing tasks for 35 minutes, five days a week
to see the measureable improvement. These exercises are not meant to be heavy
lifting. They should be enjoyable. (After all, stress is bad for the memory
too.) As long as you continue to enjoy the activity, you can participate in
brain games for longer periods of time, but the minimum of 15-20 minutes a day
should be maintained. 
 











Quick List of Tactics for Boosting Your Brain Power
On the following
pages, you will find a variety of tips, tricks, and information to enhance your
memory. In some cases, the item reviews previous discussions. There are additional
helpful items that did not get included in the general text. The quick list can
be considered a "cheat sheet" for all of the material included in the book and
is provided as a quick reference of material to implement for memory
improvement.  
1. Eliminate
distractions and stop multitasking. Give your undivided attention to the task
at hand to improve your ability to encode information and retrieve it at a
later time.
2. Practice your
memorization skills with a favorite song or poem. Work on memorizing a piece
until you can say it to yourself without looking at the piece. Change the piece
being memorized when you can recite it completely from memory. Do this
regularly.
3. Use your
creativity and other memory tricks to create a song or poem for items to be
remembered.
4. Learn a
language. You do not have to become fluent in a language to see improvement in
your brain and memory. Learning simple vocabulary words is as effective as
becoming fluent.
5. Learn to play
an instrument. Reading, playing, and memorizing music is a memory boosting
exercise that establishes connections across multiple areas of the brain that
are responsible for memory. 
6. Leave yourself
a voicemail or email message to remind yourself about important tasks.
7. Write down
events or tasks immediately. 
If you don't have
a pen to write something down immediately, use environmental clues as a
reminder. If you always put your keys in your right pocket, put them in your
left. If you wear rings or a watch, change the finger or wrist it is worn on.
8. Use a pen to
make a mark on your hand. When you see the mark, it will trigger the memory of
what you need to do.
9. When studying
or reading, take a break every 20 minutes, and do something unrelated and
physical. Then, go back to your task in 10 minutes.
10. Try a variety
of brain boosting games to improve your memory. 
11. To help
remember names, look at the person when you are introduced and say the person's
name: "Nice to meet you, Tom." If you know another person with the
same name, picture the two holding hands.
12. Try yoga,
stretching, or meditation to relieve stress. Remember to breathe deeply when
trying to remember things.
13. Be sure to get
sleep. When tired, try to fit in power naps of no more than 20 minutes to avoid
feeling groggy rather than refreshed.
14. Use rosemary
to help alert your brain to memory tasks. Carry a sprig or use essential oils.
15. Seek out
humorous films, stories, and shows. Make it a point to laugh every day.
16. Check with a
doctor or nutritionist for physical and nutritional components to a poor
memory.
Stop saying that
you have a bad memory. You are as you think. Celebrate the successes you have
on the journey to a better memory.











Conclusion
The brain is the
body's super computer, and memory is one of its major tasks. Improving your
memory is a comprehensive process that encompasses all areas of life. The
strictly mental tasks of encoding and retrieval are impacted by diverse factors
such as physical and emotional well-being to nutrition. It is a common
misconception that memory and intelligence are linked together and are fixed
abilities. This is not the case. Memory is independent of intelligence, and
both memory and intelligence can be enhanced through a variety of tricks, tips,
and lifestyle choices.
By improving your
overall health, you improve your brain function and memory. While memory is
impacted by nutrition, stress, activity, and fatigue, and can be easily
improved with different choices, it is important to be aware of more critical
underlying concerns. If there is a sudden and rapid decline in memory and
cognitive ability, it is essential to speak with a medical professional for
screening of larger health concerns. 
For those who are
healthy, improving your memory can truly be approached as a fun exercise rather
than a disconcerting effort. In addition to the various memory tips and tricks
discussed throughout this book, brain function and memory performance are
enhanced through games and tasks that engage the brain. As with the length of
your attention span, the benefits of memory improvement activities will be
enhanced by participating in activities that are personally enjoyable. You do
not have to use every tip, trick, or practice exercise in this book to see
improvement. By selecting the items that fit best within your schedule and
interests, you will find that improving your memory is easy (and even fun) and
can be done in minutes rather than in days, weeks, or months. 














 
Your
Free Gifts
As my way of saying thank for buying I put
together two amazing free gifts for you.
These gifts are the ultimate bonus upgrade
to this book...
The
Brain Boosting Recipe Guide
&
The
Sleep Hackers Quick Guide
Click Here to Download Now!
Thanks, 
Andy Arnott 














 
 
All rights Reserved. No part of this publication or
the information in it may be quoted from or reproduced in any form by means
such as printing, scanning, photocopying or otherwise without prior written
permission of the copyright holder.
Disclaimer and Terms of Use: Effort has been made to
ensure that the information in this book is accurate and complete, however, the
author and the publisher do not warrant the accuracy of the information, text
and graphics contained within the book due to the rapidly changing nature of
science, research, known and unknown facts and internet. The Author and the
publisher do not hold any responsibility for errors, omissions or contrary
interpretation of the subject matter herein. This book is presented solely for
motivational and informational purposes only.
 
 
















