




  











Intro
"Captain Capitalism Reserved" is the second "best of" edition of the blog, Captain Capitalism.   Like "Top Shelf," "Reserved" is not intended to be a stand alone book, but merely an analog back-up of my best blogging works in the case Google, YouTube, Amazon or whoever decides my speech is no longer free.
The book is broken up into 7 segments:
EconomicsFinance, Career, and EntrepreneurshipPoliticsPhilosophyMasculinityWomen, andMisc
It also maintains the spirit of Captain Captialism wherein ideas are emphasized more than grammar or perfect English.  Thus, in true Cappy Cap form I have keep all the typos in all of their glory in the book.
Please consider visiting Captain Capitalism, as well as my other sites and ventures:
The Clarey PodcastYouTube - Aaron ClareyAsshole Consulting












To Chris MuirThanks for the wisdom and guidance, and confirming I wasn't batshit insane












Copyright © 2015 Aaron Clarey
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, distributed, or transmitted in any form or by any means, including photocopying, recording, or other electronic or mechanical methods, without the prior written permission of the publisher, except in the case of brief quotations embodied in critical reviews and certain other noncommercial uses permitted by copyright law. For permission requests, contact Aaron Clarey. 












TABLE OF CONTENTS
ECONOMICS
FINANCE, CAREER, AND ENTREPRENEURSHIP
POLITICS
PHILOSOPHY
MASCULINITY
WOMEN
MISC.
                                          












ECONOMICS










Why Communism Killed the American Muse
This is an important one.  So I want you to pour yourself a martini, get a nice comfy couch and light up a cigar.  You'll be strapped in for a while on this one. Though traffic has improved drastically when I started posting about the Manosphere, I occasionally get the question,"Why did you switch from economics to The Manosphere/Feminism?"or"Why did you abandon economics for all this Manosphere stuff?"And the answer is simple.I haven't.  While a higher percentage of my posts could be deemed "Manosphere" the reality is that economics and The Manosphere (or the fight against feminism) are actually one and the same.  And not only are they one and the same, I contend the most cutting-edge, evolutionary developments in economics are not in central banking, nor international finance, nor the demise of fiat currency.  The furthest, most deepest front lines of this economic war between communism and freedom is where The Manosphere and feminism are duking it out.Right off the bat it is not obvious how battling feminism is related, let alone, part of economics, let alone "the cutting-edge" of economics.  And in all intellectual honesty it wasn't until I sat down to figure out this post did I realize how they are indeed one and the same.  But what originally alluded me to think the two were related was the fact my "transition" from economics to "Manosphere" was very natural.  So natural, I didn't even realize it was happening.  So natural my readers didn't know it was happening.  All of the sudden my blog, as well as others, were writing about both economics and the Manosphere, suggesting the two were at minimum VERY closely related and tied together, at least philosophically.So what makes them the same?  Well why don't you take a big swig of your highly alcoholic drink, take a seat and be prepared to be floored as I lay down some serious "Super Awesome Economic Genius" (TM).First, we have to ask ourselves what is the most important thing in life to humans?  Some will say riches, some will say wealth, some will say health, but those are all wrong answers.  The correct answer is "other humans."  The reason why is that out of EVERYTHING on this planet, humans are the most interesting, entertaining, dynamic and intellectual things we'll ever run into.For example, have the most advanced XBox video gaming system out there. It is still finite.  It is still non-sentient.  It cannot think, it cannot challenge you, and cannot engage you beyond what it is programmed to do.  It is limited.  The only reason it CAN challenge you (within the confines of what it's programmed to) is because OTHER HUMANS programmed it that way.  Furthermore, what do most people with video games do to maximize their fun?  They go online and PLAY AGAINST OTHER HUMANS, suggesting it is human interaction, not a pre-programmed pixelated campaign to kill Nazi's or zombies that provides genuine stimulation to people.Another example - when do you cry?  Chances are when you ding your car or sell your boat, etc., you don't cry.  But when a family member or a loved one dies, you cry.  Why?  Because a human is the only thing you can really love, as well as love you back.  You could even make the same case for pets in that pets, though not as advanced as humans, have some of the same characteristics.  They are not finite, they are not programmed, dogs certainly have personalities, they are dynamic (meaning they don't do the same thing over and over again like a robot), and you can interact with them.  A Ferrari, you can't.In other words, have all the things you want.  Super computers, Ferrari's, an awesome career, you name it, there is nothing more advanced and engaging that another human being.  It's what we're programmed to respond to, it's what we're programmed to be intellectually stimulated by, other humans are the most important thing in our lives.Second, since human beings are the most important things in our lives, which ones mean the most to us?  Of course we don't PERSONALLY KNOW every one of the 6 billion humans on the planet, but the ones that are important to us fall into three categories - family, friends and loved ones.It is here we must discern between men and women because, after all, we are trying to tie economics to the MANosphere.  Additionally, we have to make some assumptions that are not going to apply to every man in the world, but will hold in general.  Specifically, we must discern the order or hierarchy in which the average man values the above three - family, friends and loved ones.  In general, the average man is going to loveHis wife first.  Sometimes TIED with his children for first, which means HIS FAMILY comes first. His children secondAnd parental-extented family TIED with friends for third.This doesn't mean he wouldn't lay his life down for his friends.  This doesn't mean he would abandon his friends once he found a woman (though that does happen).  This is just ordering these for the sake of intellectual discussion.Regardless, the point is the single most important thing in a man's life is his wife and children aka HIS FAMILY (not his parents, cousins, siblings, aunts, etc.)Third, since a man's wife and children are the most important things in life for him, how does a man go about getting a family?  He has to attract a woman to become his wife.  And how does he do that?He goes out, kicks ass and takes names.The "kicking ass" and "taking names" primarily manifesting itself in the form of economic production.This means he goes to school, learns a trade, stays in shape, develops a personality, develops hobbies, invents, creates, innovates, invests, enriches himself and does everything within his power to increase his marketability to attract a woman.  In short he becomes the most powerful economically productive unit in all of society.However, it doesn't stop there.  It's not like he's running a marathon, passes the finish line and then quits once he attracts a mate.  He must keep going and continue being the powerful economic production unit he is because chances are there will be little kinder that need taking care of.  
So in short, the majority of economic production in this economy is incented and prompted by a man's strong psychological and instinctual desire to compete for a woman, secure a mate and then start and maintain a family, resulting in an economic model that looks like this:
 
However, there are some significant ancillary benefits to having effectively every man in the country working this hard, being this creative and being this productive.  Namely pure economic dominance for the US.  With all men engaged in the economy, working their best, trying their best, uninhibited by government regulation, taxation or politics, there was no doubt which country was the #1 economic power in the world. Additionally, in being the #1 economic power in the world, the US could afford not just the largest,but the most advanced military in the world ensuring our safety.  So while the above model is on the micro-economic level, the macro-economic model looks like this: 
Now here is where it gets interesting.Let's just say, "hypothetically" you are an enemy of the United States (or any free and successful country). You are a communist psy-ops specialist in the Soviet Union.  Or heck, just a communist ideologue from the Frasier School that wants to ruin the US.  Whatever your origins, you are a communist that wants to destroy the US.  You envy its economic wealth, you envy it's economic production, you hate how it's dominant and #1, and it really grinds your gears they did it by letting people be free and do what they want.  You know you can't take on the US militarily, so how do you bring about its demise efficiently, effectively and cheaply?Well if you look at the two charts you'll see two bottlenecks or weak spots than can bring the whole thing down.You target the wife/women or the family.  PREFERABLY the wife/women because that's the first bottleneck before a family is created. And now your are starting to see why feminism, The Manosphere and economics are related.  Since the majority of this country's (an any other free country's) economic production is based on a man's desire to live a happy life by getting married and (sometimes) having children, if you can destroy the quality and caliber of women, let alone the incentive to get married or have children, you can destroy the economic productive capacity of the United States, and thus the country itself. Thus, you see that feminism really isn't about "helping women."  It is nothing more than an thinly veiled economic and political attack against the US, freedom and capitalism.  This is why I call it "Killing the American Muse."I didn't know what a "muse" was, until I read this Sinfest comic and looked it up.  A muse is (in societal terms) a woman that instills creativity, innovation and determination in a man.  ie-any babe that stirs our souls and we think might be marriage material.  You see this all the time where if a hot babe walks by men suck in their guys, puff out their chests and do whatever they can to impress her.  However, to be a true muse you must not just be good-looking, but also inspire the man, incentive him to do great things, work hard, etc., which requires you are nice, kind, witty, charming, and supportive.  The qualities and characteristics of a woman that makes her a good wife, creating the saying "behind every successful man there is a woman."Of course, if you look at what feminism has done and intends to do to our women, you can see it is in COMPLETE opposition to these qualities and traits. You are not supposed to support the man.  You are not to help him out.  He is the enemy.  He is your oppressor, you are not a team.  You will co-lead. He will compromise.  You will be difficult, you will be belligerent, you will get in his face, you will nag, you will whine, you will complain, you will make demands. You entitled girlfriend!  You will have a career, ef the family and ef him, you can have it all, test-tube babies, turkey baster babies, career comes first, I'm a cougar, I can date younger, EPL, Sex and the City, 40 is the new 25, I'm a heroic single mom, you go grrrrl.  Vote for higher taxes, men should pay more, we're oppressed, the wage gap, evil patriarchy, free day care, free health care, free education, Obama's pecks, won't somebody please think of the children, I have my masters, where's my cushy 9 months a year government job?  Big is beautiful, you're so shallow for liking skinny girls, you should love me for me, shame on you for liking that type of girl, we're going to shove fat acceptance down your throats.Well how the hell is THAT kind of muse going to instill ANYTHING in a guy but sheer disgust?Simple, it isn't.  Feminism never intended to "improve" the American Muse.  Feminism is nothing more than a cover for communists to destroy it and thus destroy your incentive to produce.The question is, though, are they succeeding?  And the answer is sadly yes.In corrupting and destroying the quality and caliber of the average American woman, these veritable communists have completely disincentived men from participating in getting married, creating families and forming careers.  Men are getting married much later, and some, not at all because of the various legal and financial risks involved.  Men are having less children not just because they can't afford it in today's economic times, but BOTH parents MUST have careers!  Children be damned.  Worse though, (for the rest of society anyway) is that men are completely abandoning their traditional male roles and checking out of society altogether.  Not that they aren't dating.  Not that they aren't working, but they're not "manning up" as so many bewildered western women would like them to.  They are realizing just how little money it takes to support one man and choosing the path of least resistance.  They are living at home, not going to school, not bothering working hard, not trying their best, not inventing vaccines, not becoming doctors and not aiming to "achieve something greater."  They are making just enough money to get by, live their lives, smoke some cigars, drive some motorcycles, service their needs and then die.  Thus, the new micro-economy is looking like this:
Pay particular note to several items in the new economic model.1.  The amount of green (economic production) is a lot less.  This is in part because the guy no longer has any calling to be a husband or a father.  That job has been replaced by the government.  The guy no longer has anything to do with the "mom" or the "children" and therefore only needs to produce the amount of economic production that is necessary to support himself.2.  Also note the significant amount of "faux" economic production.  Namely the welfare spending of the government and the "make work government jobs" that are disproportionately filled by women.  Also, notice such an economy of nothing but teachers, social workers, therapists, counselors, etc. is unsustainable, thereby requiring additional financing by the Chinese (again, not real economic production).3.  Notice the disconnect from the guy.  The guy is standing alone, separate from the upper half.  This means he is not only alienated from the economy, but also socially alienated.  He has no family, he has no children, and if he does, thanks to divorce chances are he is more or less removed from that as well.  He may as well be removed from this entire economy and country, and this shows in more and more men looking overseas for not just jobs, but families and lives.4.  I didn't draw it, but the upper half of the economy will inevitably demand the "guys" below pay more in taxes to support the government-daddy-hubby matrix.  More schools, more health care, free day care, etc. etc., just look at what the feminists and communists are clamoring for and you'll see.  Additionally, this only provides further incentive for the guys below to work less, if not, collect a government check themselves, if not consider green pastures in other economies.Ultimately though, the above model results in something that is loathed by BOTH ardent feminists and religious conservative types - the HATED Peter Pan Syndrome Man or "Manchild."With their primary incentive (women) to engage in economic production eliminated why should they?  Without a potential future wife, let alone children, they can stay at home and bang on their drums all day because the average man needs a mere fraction of the money to survive and support himself than the average woman does.  Oddly enough, men seem to be OK with this.  It's other people that are having the problems.The feminists/communists are pissed because these naive men were supposed to keep on working to pay the taxes to support their socialist utopia (though I doubt most feminists think that much about budgetary economics and fiscal policy).Religious types are angry because these men aren't "manning up" and creating more Christians/Muslims/Jews/Etc.Women are angry because "why can't I find a maaaaaan?"  And "where have all the good men gone!?  Why, I have my triple masters in social work and I'm an independent strong woman!  You know, that's what it is!  Men are sexist pigs who are just intimidated by a strong, independent woman like me!  You probably want one of those hot, long legged, big boobed women!  Well, you know what, you're shallow!  If you don't like me and my muffin top, then you're not good enough for me!"Meanwhile today's marrying-age man (most likely VERY aware of the divorce his father went through in the 80's/90's) is noticing some of the benefits of bachelorhood, XBox and scotch.Regardless, the larger point is not the socio-romantic consequences of the "Man Child" or "Peter Pan Syndrome."  It's the economic consequences.  Communists, poorly dressed as feminists, have taken the one thing that truly matters and has given men reason to live throughout history away from them- a wife, and consequently a family.  Without that incentive men have no reason to work hard, innovate, create or excel except for themselves.  Some, yes, will go onto try hard and create riches for themselves, but most others will merely create enough economic production to "get by" pursuing leisure over labor (besides, with this economy, like they have a choice).  This wreaks havoc on the economy in that by taking out that one bottleneck (women) feminists have effectively sent the US economic engine into a coma, producing a mere fraction of what it's capable of doing.Ergo, we here in the Manosphere aren't "bashing women" because it's a "he-man woman's hater club."  We aren't here because we find the battle of the sexes interesting.  And we aren't here because we're whining.  We're here for economic purposes.  We are identifying, warning people about, and assailing the single largest economic threat to not just this economy and other free-market economies, but to freedom across the globe.  Feminism is NOT about women, it is a Trojan Horse for communism.  And all the accusations in the world of us being "sexist" or "misogynist" will never stop us from pointing that out and exposing feminism for the evil it truly is.
Micro-Capital Flight 
Short one and them I'm going. Filled in for a buddy of mine who runs a security company last night.  I worked this gig before.  Basically baby sitting the adult children of DT Minneapolis as they are released from the night clubs around 2AM to make sure they don't puke, urinate or fight too much on the client's parking ramps.  There are multiple ramps, but we meet at one to get radios, any kind of briefing about the evening and whatnot.  Once I met with all the other guards, I was enroute to the ramp I was assigned.  As I went downstairs from the "HQ" ramp I noticed a soda machine missing in the hallway that was there a no more than a year ago.  Last I saw it, however, it was tipped over as some of the local nightclubbers tipped it over.  Naturally the owner of the soda machine removed it since it was not profitable and was only going to get damaged.Immediately my brain (which is gifted with SAEG - TM) realized what economic phenomenon I was witnessing.Capital flight.You see, it doesn't have to be the entire productive class fleeing France thanks for Hollande's 75% confiscation tax.  Nor does it have to be Zimbabwean's money flowing out of the country to invest in western companies' stock as a hyper-inflationary hedge.Capital flight can be as simple as something as somebody deciding to move their sole soda machine out of DT Minneapolis.  It was obvious s/he wasn't going to make any money.  It was obvious the locals and club goers were not going to respect their property.  It was obvious there was no reason to put a soda machine there.But what i really like about the now-missing soda machine is the "empty shelves of communism" aspect of it.  Admittedly, it was only one soda machine, but economically it was NO DIFFERENT than an entire grocery store whose shelves were empty.  What's better is who does it hurt?  If you think about it, it's the night-clubbers.  They now no longer have the opportunity to enjoy a soda as they stumble their way back to their cars.Of course this microscopic economic phenomenon was unnoticeable to the drunk thugs and dregs of society as they walked by.  And that's another thing I like about the missing soda machine.  It's silent, it's clandestine, you don't notice it.  It's the reason why neighborhoods, cities and countries don't just "collapse" overnight going form pristine, vibrant communities with economic growth and low unemployment to the ghetto.  It's why they slowly, deteriorate and die out, the deterioration of which is unperceivable to the naked human eye.  It's also why people wake up one day and start asking, "what happened to this community?  Do you remember when it was nice."Perhaps disappearing Coke machines is what gives economic rats like me the foresight to flee sinking ships.  
The Spinning Wheels Economy 
OK lieutenants and economists.  We're going to go from 0 to mach 1 in a couple paragraphs so hold tight.In all that is economics, and actually, all that is in life, the only thing that matters is "utility."What is "utility" you ask?Well it's a word that economists (poorly) use to describe the benefits people get from consuming or using goods and services.  If it were up to me I would replace "utility" with the word "enjoyment" in every economics textbook, but alas, I am not an academian.Regardless, the point about utility (or enjoyment) is that, that is what life is all about.  Enjoying yourself and living life.  Extending your life as long as possible and enjoying a high of a standard of living as you possibly can.Now, there are only two things (outside friends, family and loved ones) that can provide you enjoyment in an economic sense.Goods and services.Goods in the form of ice cream,motorcycles, dachshunds and martinis, etc.
Services in the form of massages, surgery, meal preparation, and so forth.And that REALLY is all you need to know in order to understand economics.  Economics is NOT about money or business or commerce.  It is (again) about "stuff" and fun.  So whichever country produces the most stuff literally does win because it is stuff and services that provide us joy, not the paper money that we use to buy the stuff.Now where we run into trouble is how economists measure the amount of "stuff" we produce in this or any other economy - Gross Domestic Product or "GDP."GDP is technically defined as "all the goods and services produced within a nation's border within one year."  And so if GDP goes up, hey, we must be producing more stuff!No so fast, buckaroo.First there is the thing called the "Broken Window Fallacy."  If you break a window, it must be repaired.  Out comes the window repairman and he replaces your window.
Did this increase your standards of living?No, it merely MAINTAINED your standards of living.BUT because of how we account or measure GDP that $100 you spend on the window repairman goes into the GDP total.  In short, yes GDP went up, but our standards of living did not.Now this "Broken Window Fallacy" is actually accounted for.  Windows will break, machines will wear out, cars break down, and so to account for the natural "wear and tear" that will occur in this or any other economy we come up with "Net Domestic Product" - an estimate as to how much real NEW production occurs, not replacement parts and repairs.  But even NDP does not account for other discrepancies between GDP and our actual standards of living.Second, government spending.Government spending (state and local) now accounts for 40% GDP and some of that is considered GDP.  Yes, a lot of it is deficit spending, but we'll leave that out of it for now.  The primary point is that government spending has been increasing and quite dramatically since 1900 when it only accounted for about 3% of GDP (below is just the federal share, AND it does not include Barack Obama's 10% jump in his 3.5 years in office).
The question is what do we get out of that government spending?The truth is, nothing.Yes, government spending is accounted for in the national income accounts, and yes it increases GDP, but the problem with government spending is it's nowhere near as efficient and productive as private spending.  The government (as I'm sure you're aware of) pisses away money worse than an Edina trophy wife with a horse farm.  The $800 spent on a hammer for the Pentagon back in the 80's is a perfect example.  Or, for you lovely liberals, your lovely $500 million in taxpayer money spent on Solyndra.  Or (once again for you lovely liberals) on a state level where we spend the equivalent of two houses per child on "teachers" as they fake educating the children.Did we as a country cumulatively have our standards of living raised by $800 for that hammer?  Did we as a country cumulatively enjoy $500 million worth of solar panels and energy savings from Solyndra?  Did we as a country cumulatively have our standards of living raised by $200,000 for acting like we were educating that Detroit child-turned-gang-banger?Of course not.But from an accounting standpoint that money was still considered GDP and an increase in our standards of living.  This calls into question the ENTIRE government spending component of GDP.  And while there's no way to accurately measure just how much of government spending is wasted, I would estimate today nearly 85% of it is.If you think we're done whittling away at your standard of living, sorry to say, we're not.  There's one more flaw in GDP that has been gnawing at the back of my mind - just how efficient is the private sector?  Oh, rip apart the public sector all we want, it ain't like the private sector is the epitome of efficiency.And this is what I call the "Spinning Wheels Economy."I happened upon this as I realized that in my now approaching 20 year banking career, the last 10 years, ESPECIALLY the last 5 have been spent cleaning up other people's mistakes.  My role as a credit analyst in theory should have benefited society by way of me assessing risk precisely and accurately.  You invest your money at a bank or a real estate company, I analyze and to the best of my ability calculate the risk, potential return and likelihood of repayment, to get you a higher rate of return. But in the past 5 years I have spent no more than maybe, MAYBE a full 80 hours doing that.Instead I've been spending my time cleaning up all the crap loans idiotic bankers made before me.  Dealing with problem loans where the client hasn't paid us back.  Dealing with impaired collateral because the galactically retarded branch president decided to hold onto it "until the real estate market improved."  And dealing with spineless pansies who can get the gall to foreclose and repossess on the losers of society.  I did nothing anywhere near what my original job was intended to be.  Oh, and don't get me started about all the government regulatory compliance that does nothing but piss away the shareholder's capital.But, did I get paid a salary during that time?Yes.Was that accounted for in GDP?Yes.Did I produce one damn thing if value during the past decade?Not a dime.It then further dawned on me that I am probably not alone.  The current economic environment in the US is just ripe for millions of private sector people getting paid who essentially produce nothing of real value.UNDERemployment is around 20-25%, nobody is working anywhere near their potential.Businesses are currently managed by (in my humble opinion) the most incompetent, impotent, ineffectual, inefficient, cronyistic, nepotistic retarded rent-seekers in the history of the US.And the overall quality and caliber of the average US person, who now populates both the rank and officer classes of the private sector, has deteriorated considerably since the 1940's.All of which means we clock in, but there's no real, genuine economic production.If I had to estimate it, I'd say that right now the average private sector employee is really only productive for 25% of his or her time while on the job.  And this says NOTHING about management arming them with the optimal, let alone, adequate combination of training, equipment and leadership.  Of course my experiences are biased.  I worked in the most corrupted, inefficient industry in the country - banking.  But I'm sure those of you in other industries could estimate your "efficiency loss."Making an attempt to back out my bias, I'd still estimate given the average quality of the average American today, you'll looking at a loss of at least half the efforts in the private sector.Now admittedly, these are all estimates.  And I would also contend these percentages of lost efficiency would be lower if we went back in time which Americans were more responsible.  But if we take some measure of accounting for1.  this deterioration,2.  NDP,3.  government spending loss of efficiency4.  private sector loss of efficiencyour "real" "Real Net Domestic Product" is nowhere near what government economists and databases tell us and perhaps more accurately reflect our own experiences and observations. Admittedly a very presumptuous and pessimistic-assumptions-made chart, but here is what I came up with:
In short standards of living haven't really increased all that much since 1967.  Oh yes, I know, we have cute little gadgets.  And yes, I know, our cars now have power windows.  But this trend does more or less correlate with what I've experienced.  I'm better off than I was in 1980, but not by much.Now, again, there are admittedly a lot of assumptions that went into this chart:1.  I assumed government spending was effective at a 50% rate, dropping to 15% today.2.  I assumed the private sector was effective at 80%, dropping to 35% today.3.  This does not account for any additional benefit technology may have provided in terms of increasing the quality of our goods and services. But I am more curious if this correlates with what you have experienced in terms of standards of living and life in the past roughly 40 years instead of the BLS and BEA TELLING you what you've experienced.  And keep in mind the above chart DOES NOT account for all the money we've borrowed from foreign countries and spent on foreign made goods.  This is AMERICAN made products and AMERICAN consumption sans any subsidies from our foreign friends.  
The Art of Connecting Far Apart Actions to Consequences 
If you were to ask a random selection of people to explain each and every action and successive event that occurs under the hood of a car from when you turn the key to the point that engine is running, I believe maybe no more than 2% of the people could do it.  Most people just know "you turn the key and the car goes vroom."  But just because they don't understand all the intricate details and events occurring under the hood, doesn't mean they don't know how to use cars.  Everyday millions of people use vehicles they seldom mechanically understand, and thusly their lives are dependent on technologies and processes they are ignorant of.Computers are another example.  Unless you're in computer engineering or a computer networker, most people just know how to turn a computer on and use a point-click-interface.  They have a theoretical understanding of how the internet works, but very few people understand binary, routing, electricity, computer processing and all the other processes and mechanics that go on behind the screen.  Again, our lives are heavily reliant on processes and events we rarely understand.  Now this isn't to slam on people who don't know how to fix cars or don't know the basics about computers.  The truth is such complex processes like starting a car engine or sending an e-mail are the result of a specialization of labor and a specialized economy.  An auto mechanic may know in intricate detail how engines work, but could never hope to fix a computer.  And a computer engineer may know how to create a circuit, but is hopelessly lost when it comes to making a soufflé.  No one person knows everything about every trade and process. However, there is one field or "system of complex processes" that everybody SHOULD know about and familiarize themselves with - economics.Admittedly, economics is boring (or at least it is to most people).  And the reason most people find economics to be boring is because there aren't enough intriguing, dashing, charismatic and interesting economists like me out there.  Most are boring, dull, dry, and truth be told, most economists don't even know THEMSELVES how economies work, and thus fail miserably to convey just how exciting and interesting economics truly is.  But making economics even more distasteful to the potential student is that it is complex.  And when faced with the daunting task of mathematically and precisely figuring out how "fractional reserve banking leads to inflation," most people's minds prefer to just "turn the key and hope the car goes vroom."There's just one problem.Who fixes the economy when you turn the key and it doesn't go "vroom?"Well, let's test you with a multiple choice question.a.    The Federal Reserveb.    The Federal Governmentc.    Congressd.    The Presidente.    The peopleThe answer is e - the people.The reason why is that since this is a democracy and we vote in our leaders, we are ultimately responsible for putting the right people in office.   And by "right people" I mean people who make wise decisions and effect wise policy that helps the economy growth at its maximum level.  But when people are so ignorant about basic economics, to the point it's like Bambi the Trophy Wife misdiagnosing why her Lexus SUV won't start, we don't send the "economic-mechanics" we need to fix the economy, but rather equally-ignorant politicians who promise us nice things.  In other words the mechanic who brings us bad news, telling us the engine needs to be replaced for $2,000, is booed and hissed at.  While the mechanic who brings us good news, telling us there's nothing wrong and that there won't be a charge, gets applauds, accolades and a public office for life.The solution would seem simple - get people interested and educated about economics.  But there are two main hurdles to this challenge.  One, most people are WILLFULLY ignorant.  Even though there's smoke billowing out of the engine, they will ALWAYS go with the mechanic who lies to them because that's what they want to believe.  No amount of reason, sanity, proof or logic will ever break through their brainwashed skulls.  Two, requesting the average person learn economics to the point they're reasonably fluent in it, is as intimidating as asking Bambi the Trophy Wife to get underneath her Lexus, get greased up, and change her own oil to the point she can do it on her own.  It's daunting.  Alas, why The Art of Connecting Far Apart Actions to Consequences is a must for any conservative or libertarian cheerleader of free markers.  You need to not only be able to understand economics yourself, you need to be able to convey it clearly to others who are not so fluent.  You need to be able to take complex economic processes and theories and boil them down to simple, but brilliant "bumper sticker-eqsue" founts of knowledge and fact that disproves what most leftists believe.  You need to be able to read a Paul Krugman piece, dissect it, find the piece of data or theory he's spun intentionally and maliciously and THEN explain in under 5 minutes to the average layman why Paul is a shill AND get that layman to understand it.  It is in taking the seemingly complex processes and theories of economics and making them not just palatable, but simple and understandable, you will deliver the single largest blow to socialism and leftism you possibly can.  However, there is an even more important reason in making economics as clear and as simple as possible:Leftists, socialists, and career politicians of all political stripes, rely on the complexity of economics to mask and hide their ulterior motives.  Understand the single largest advantage the left has over a low-information voter population is the complexity, boringness and intimidation of economics.  I termed it the "GLEOC" (Great Liberal Economic Oort Cloud") where most people view the economy and government as some amorphous entity where "really smart people, WAY smarter than them" know what to do and are doing everything they can in some kind of Keynesian, mixing things up, primordial goo, sort of way and hopefully the GLOEC farts out some jobs (actually, quite identical to the medieval days when only the "learned and wise" members of the clergy were allowed to read the bible and the masses could only learn of Christianity through their self-serving prism of teaching under penalty of death).  Regardless, the GLEOC is WAAAAY too complicated for sheeple like them to understand, and why bother?  Kate Perry is on! Unfortunately, the left hides it political agenda within this ambiguity, mentally removing the people so far from their intentions, they get away with it scot free.  But if you were to explain away the GLEOC (and allow the masses to read the metaphorical "economics bible"), and get enough people to truly understand how economics works, you remove this ambiguity and expose them for what they truly are - thieves.And yes, the leftist ideology is really that simple.  
How Western Civilization Will (Temporarily) Save the US Dollar 
A law, not a theory, but a law of economics is if you print off more money, but the amount of goods and services remain the same, you will have inflation. There is no if's, and's, or but's about it.  YOu print off more money without a commensurate increase in the production of goods and services you have created inflation. This law is of course, masked by the complexities of central banking and international economics.  But pull as many tricks out of their central banking hats, in the end this law will end up proving true, undoing and unraveling all the tomfoolery and magic tricks central bankers try to play.Many people are banking on such an unraveling.  They're buying gold and silver, ammo and guns, and some are investing in more stable currencies like the Norwegian Kroner or Swiss Franc.  However, there is always the issue of "investment horizons" and as John Maynard Keynes said, "Markets can remain irrational longer than you can stay solvent."  And today's US dollar is one such instance. THere is no doubt whatsoever that with "QE^1...n" set by the Fed there has been an increase in the money supply that outstrips the increase in GDP.  Naturally there should be inflation, but one of the little smoke screens employed by the Fed (or actually, a lack of business confidence in the US economy) is that those monies are sitting in the banking system, afraid to be lent out against such poor economic prospects.  So yes, the CPI shows no inflation, but the moment that money ever gets circulated into the economy or velocity increases (if you believe in that stuff) inflation will kick in.  Regardless, the larger point is it doesn't matter to the gold or silver investor WHERE the US dollars are sitting, all that matters to them is HOW MUCH DOLLARS ARE OUT THERE as that is what directly speaks to the price of precious metals relative to a fiat currency.However, the above situation, though true, is over-simplified.  Specifically, it does not account for the irrationality of other actors in the world economy and does not explain the recent year long drop in gold and silver prices.  And if we were to investigate the "irrationality of other actors" in the world economy, we'd find there's one simple reason the US dollar has had a resurgence against precious metals (and other currencies)-Western Civilization.Understand that though the US and other western nations have massive economic and debt problems, they have one advantage over their non-western counterparts - we are more civilized.  By "more civilized" I mean precisely that.  WE don't have a ton of corruption say like, China.  We don't have to bribe officials like say, Russia.  We don't have people shooting each other in the streets say like, most of Sub-Saharan Africa.  And in general our population agrees and abides by our legal, contact, and economic laws (we pay people on time, we aren't trying to price gouge people at the local bazaar, etc.)  And when you compare these traits and factors to people withtrillions of dollars worth of their local currencyin a world where evil is winning in most placesand most other countries are kleptocraciesthat disgusting, dirty, evil United States, with it's despicable dead, white European male culture, where those stupid westerners get up, day in, day out, go to work and do what they say they're going to do, still looks to be the best bet. This "trust premium" if you want to call it that has two effects.  One, it provides additional value to the US dollar above and beyond it's purchasing power or underlying economic production.  The dollar now becomes a "safe haven," or "reserve" for people around the world looking to just maintain the value of their currency.  Two, it increases the value of the dollar relative to other currencies, despite our horrible financial fundamentals in that we are the "least sucky currency" or as a reader put it, "the least ugly sister in the room.""Sure," you might say, "I can see how this affects the exchange rates between the US dollar and other currencies, but why precious metals?"And that is an outstanding economics question, one we can take a lesson from.Understand that there is a difference between "price" and "value."  People often confuse the US dollar (or any currency) with value thinking currencies somehow have value.  In reality currencies are nothing more than units for pricing something that DOES have value. "How much is that Big Mac worth?"  4.23 US dollar units of value."How much is that gallon of gas?" 3.97 US dollar units of value.In other words a Big Mac or a gallon of has still has the same value.  A Big Mac will fill your stomach just the same whether the price is 5 cents or $500, and a gallon of gas will move your car the same 20 miles regardless of whether its price is 40 cents or $300 per gallon.  It is the CURRENCY'S PURCHASING POWER THAT CHANGES, not the value of the underlying good.To this end you can see why gold and silver have dropped in price in terms of the US dollar.  Not because they went down in value, but because with everybody scrambling to park their assets in US dollars (and dollar denominated assets) the value of the dollar has gone up, allowing the dollar to purchase roughly 20% more gold and silver than it did a year ago. But once again, we need to look at the fundamentals.Yes, it's nice that we have the least sucky currency.Yes it's nice that CHina's bubble is starting to burst (not for the Chinese people, or for that matter, global economy, but for the US dollar)And yes, it's really nice that the US "only" has 105% debt to GDP compared to Europe's 160% debt to GDP.But we still suck.  And over time, unless there is genuine, booming and miraculous economic growth to provide the US dollar with genuine production/wealth-based value, you can expect the eternal law of supply to play out in the end and the dollar to drop relative to other items that have real or "intrinsic" value.   
The Economy That Was Immune to Keynesian Viagra 
I did a post a while ago showing just what a waste education has become by calculating how much GDP is yielded per dollar in educational spending.  This ratio was essentially a "return on investment" for the now trillion dollars we spend on education annually and showed not only diminishing marginal returns but just what a sad and pathetic lot populates the education industry.But then I got an idea while motorcycling around.Since Obama, Krugman, and every other leftist economist out there is constantly plugging Keynesian stimulus and government spending as the way to get the economy out of its doldrums (still waiting by the way guys, anytime time now), I figured a similar calculation would be called for in that if there's a ratio that would measure Keynesian success, it would be GDP per dollar in federal government spending.  In short, since there is that *COUGH COUGH WHEEZE WHEEZE* "multiplier effect" a dollar in government spending should result in multiple amounts of GDP.So here it is:

You'll note that the Great Depression and WWII skew things a bit.  When nearly half of your production goes into the war effort, you can expect some odd ratios, so I made another chart post WWII, but keeping 1945 in there so you can see where we came from:
 
And shucks howdy, look at that.  Just like education spending, it looks like federal government spending just isn't getting the bang for the buck it used to.  In those "evil 50's" you would get $6.50 in GDP for every $1 in government spending, now we only get $4.30.  Matter of fact, in the short 5 years since America's first socialist president took over we lost nearly a buck in GDP per government dollar of spending.  The Keynesian Viagra just isn't taking, so what is going on?It's very simple - government spending does not, in fact, contribute to economic growth.  It takes away from economic growth and merely redistributes wealth with a production or efficiency loss.If you look at what leftists and Keynesians advocate, they advocate merely moving money around in the economy to get things "shaking up a bit" in the childish and naive hopes this jostling will get the economy going again.  The problem is this "shaking things up a bit" means taking money from productive people (or the future via borrowing) and giving it to Barack Obama's biggest supporters - economically worthless, productionless parasites.I say such things not in the pejorative, but in accuracy.  That's who gets the lions share of money.  People who don't work.  People who don't produce.  People who are not independent and, thus, by default, and dependent and parasitical.The problem with such people (and thus, a Keynesian economic stimulus plan) is that they do nothing to earn it.  And that is why GDP is not as responsive today to government spending as in days past.  Normally when you give somebody money you do so for some kind of production or service in exchange  You don't just randomly pass out money, you expect a soda, a video game, a burger or something in return.  But the government (specifically, Keynesian stimulus) doesn't work that way.  It takes money from people's savings, their income, or the future, normally productive people, and gives it to non-productive people in exchange for nothing.  Not one cent of GDP is produced when you pay out a social security check.  Not one cent of GDP is produced when you pass out Obamaphones.  Not one cent of GDP is produced when you hand out food stamps.Of course people will argue not all of the stimulus spending is handouts and income transfers.  Why there are billions of dollars of grants, investments, etc., that go to bail out companies, invest in new technologies, etc.  And this is true.  Such government spending DOES get some modicum of return in the form of GDP...just not as much as if it remained in the private sector.I need not remind people of the spectacular failure and losses of Solyndra and the score of other connected-cronies of Obama who faked like they were serious about building a solar company.  I need not remind people of the billions spent on worthless social programs and the employees that manage them that not only fail to solve the social ailment they contend they're trying to fix, but also results in fake GDP as nothing anybody REALLY wanted was produced.  And wasn't there a bridge (though in a Republican's district) to the middle of nowhere?  Again, Keynesian spending might get a bang for its federal government buck, but comes nowhere near as productive and high as the private sector.No, the truth is that not only is government spending inherently NOT economic production, when you give it to the least productive and parasitic groups of people in the nation to either not produce at all or to fake producing (so public school teachers can claim they have some kind of "career" while their students shoot each other and can't read out of high school), you can expect the economy to stagnate and the ratios we have charted above.But what's really precious is how so many people think the likes of Obama and Krugman are still well-intending, just misled about economics.  The reality is they hate this country, they hate freedom, they hate success, they hate liberty, and they make their careers off of giving an ignorant electorate their undeserved pound of by destroying the country.I Finally Figured Out Bitcoin 
Economists,Lieutenants,Agents in the Field,lend me your ears!For I have finally figured out bitcoin!  And truthfully, this is one of my best mental achievements.  And hopefully, through my ability to write clearly and explain things, I may be able to explain bitcoin to us all.I had listened to this podcast of Stefan Molyneux on bitcoin.  It was very good, but did not fully answer my question, "why does a bitcoin have any value?"  However, what the podcast did do is bring my perception or "observation" up high enough that I could finally see and conclude how bitcoin does actually have value.To understand why bitcoin has value, you first need to think about why currencies exist in the first place.The answer from an economics 202 class is "to avoid barter."Barter is horribly inefficient.  If you are a cow herder and want a pint of ale, well, you're out of luck.  Because you can't trade a whole cow for a measly pint of ale.  Nor can you slice off pieces of beef from the live cow to make the trade more fair.  Therefore, if any kind of economic trade and progress is to be made, you need a currency.Historically, this has meant anything from gold and silver to salt and sea shells.  But regardless of what item inevitably becomes an local economy's currency, they all have some key traits and qualities in common.Divisibility - You can divide gold, silver or salt into measurable quantities.  Pounds, ounces, grams, etc.  This allows you to scale the currency to the value of the item you wish to purchase.Durability - The currency cannot rot or decay over time.  Milk is a bad currency because in 3 years time it will be quite gross.  Gold in 3 years time will still be gold.Store of Value - The currency must also maintain its value and purchasing power over time.  If you're like Venezuela and constantly printing off more commie paper money, it will lose its value.  But with a limited supply (gold, silver, diamonds, etc.) you can assume that currency will still have roughly the same amount of purchasing power as it did.Finally,Intrinsic Value - The currency must have some kind of real value.  Gold can be used for jewelry.  Silver can be used in electronics.  Copper can be used in plumbing.  Salt can be used in cooking. In other words, people will take it as a currency, because even if they don't use it themselves, they know somebody who will.  It does have an intrinsic value unto itself.And it is here (intrinsic value) where most people get lost on bitcoin.Bitcoin meets all the OTHER characteristics and traits of a good currency.  It's divisible.  It's durable (infinitely as it is digital).  And it will not decay (again, binary doesn't decay).  But precisely what practical, real world application does it have?  You can't use it in electronics. You can't make jewelry (aka - buying sex) with it.  So why does it have any intrinsic value at all?The answer lies in comparing a currency's "intrinsic value" versus its value as a currency.For example look at what has served as the primary currency throughout most of human history - gold.Why does gold have intrinsic value?Economists will answer, "because you can use it in jewelry" which is the polite person's way of saying, "men can buy sex with it."But does that make any sense?  That ONE thing you can do with gold, "make jewelry" is why it served as the standard currency for thousands of years across the planet?  What you'll soon realize is that, yes, while gold can be used to make jewelry it serves a much more important function to society as a currency.  In other words, an item's value as a currency is really not dependent on its intrinsic value.  It just needs SOME intrinsic value to get people to have faith in it and start trading it.Salt can be used to flavor and store food.  Was that grounds enough to make it the Mali Empire's default currency?Silver can be used to make jewelry and some industrial items.  Was that grounds enough to make it the currency of the wild west?Large clam shells could make some funky and uncomfortable bras in ancient Polynesia.  Was that grounds enough to make it the default currency in the south Pacific?Apparently so, because it DID HAPPEN.  But not because of jewelry making potential or food storage potential.  That was just "enough" intrinsic value to suffice.  It was because those items provided more value to the economy as a currency than it did some as jewelry making materials or food flavoring.  And to prove it an interesting comparison would be to compare the amount of gold (or silver) actually being used as jewelry versus that of currency, bullion or investment. I'd surmise over time, 90% of silver and gold has been used as a currency and NOT tiaras.  Understanding that a currency derives most of its value from its NON-intrinsic value traits, and only needs a "little" intrinsic value, this then puts the focus on how bitcoin derives it's "little" but necessary intrinsic value.The answer is simple - scarcity.Consider diamonds.Why do they have value?Taking the jewelry and industrial drilling uses of it away, why do they have value?The answer is, they don't.  They serve no purpose.  At least from a PRACTICAL or PURPOSEFUL perspective.But because they are so rare people will scramble for them.  But understand what we're talking about when we talk about "scarcity" or "rarity."  It is in relation to other things.On this planet there is 9 quadrillion megatons of dirt and maybe 100,000 pounds of diamonds.   Both dirt and diamonds have no real practical use or value, but diamonds are considered infinitely more valuable.  Ergo, when we talk about scarcity, is merely a RATIO between two items that determine whether it is valuable or not.  It is simply the ratio of the supply of one thing on the planet (copper) versus that of another (platinum).And this is why bitcoin has that wee bit of necessary intrinsic value.  It is very much like diamonds in that is has no practical use, but it is scarce.  Matter of fact, diamonds, gold, silver, rare earth, etc., are constantly being dug up out of the ground.  The makers of bitcoin have limited their supply to 21 million units forever, making it even more scarce.In the end, bitcoin is really nothing more than a private sector currency akin to digital diamonds.  And it is my opinion, you have a currency that is better than any official government fiat currency out there as it cannot be hyper-inflated away by a central bank.  However, there are some drawbacks to bitcoin.One, it is completely dependent upon the internet working.  Any post apocalyptic event that shuts it down or turns off the electricity, and it's about as valuable as those gold ETF's you have.  Two, it is not yet universally accepted by people.  This may change over time, but it is a distinct (though growing) minority who use bitcoin.  Three, it is such a threat to other established currencies I have no doubt in my mind governments will do everything they can to put the kibosh on it.  Fourth, it can be undermined by another digital and more preferable currency.Regardless, whether bitcoin ends up becoming a universally accepted currency is another matter.  the key economic lesson to take from this is what drives the value of a currency is not so much its intrinsic value as much as it is the amount of value society puts on it as a tool for exchange.  
Crowding Out the Private Sector Husband 
I was listening to Stefan Molyneux and he said something that made my economic spidey senses tingle a bit:That the average unwed mother, supporting a family, received somewhere around $70,000 per year from the government in the various forms of social services, welfare, etc.  He then went on to add if you considered public school that was another roughly $10,000 per child.The number seemed a little high, and I cannot find the specific podcast, but I trust Stefan's veracity to ensure those numbers are correct, so for the purpose of this particular post, I'm going to assume it's true (if somebody has better data or can cite the study, please let me know).  But the point Stefan was making was how this essentially supplanted men as the role of a provider.  If the government is going to pay a single parent (typically the mother, but not always) $70,000 per year, then why would she bother looking for a husband, at least in the capacity of a provider?Simple, she won't. But this got me thinking.  Assuming the $70,000 is accurate, what that essentially does is put a price floor on the marriage market.  No woman is going to consider any man who makes less than $70,000 because that's the MINIMUM she's going to get from the government.  So as a man, if you wish to participate in this market you need to make more than $70,000.But what percent of men make that much?Well off to do some research I went and found on wikipedia's entry on personal income that 87% of the population makes less than $75,000 per year (close enough).  Yes this included women as well, which probably increased that percent, but let's just say 80% of men make less than $75,000 for the sake of argument.  That's 4 out of every 5 men who cannot provide at the level the government does.  4 out of 5 men cannot compete in the marriage market.Now, naturally, women don't just marry for the provider role, and there are a whole host of other variables that go into it, but the government at least at some level is crowding out men from this marriage market.  And we all know from Economics 101 what happens when you set price floors and crowd buyers out of a market -surpluses.
The chart above graphs your standard supply and demand curve market.  The "supply" of women is in pink and denoted "S, women" while the "demand" for women (obviously by men) is in blue and denoted "D, men."  Had there been no government interference, the market would "clear" at an equilibrium price that would be around what the median income is for your average man.  This would be "normal" and normal women would marry normal men.  You would have a normal house and normal children.  And life would have gotten on like it always has, normally.However, with the government essentially providing a $70,000 price guarantee, it throws the whole marriage market out of whack.  At such a high income level, many more women are willing to get married, and so the supply of women increases and is denoted by the green S.  But with only 20% of the male population making that kind of money or more, the demand drops to the green D.  The difference between the plethora of women who are willing to get married and the few men who can afford it, is a surplus of women who constantly ask "where have all the good men gone?"Of course, it is impossible to put precise numbers on this market.  But it does go a long way in explaining, at least economically, why there seems to be a shortage of men (or a surplus of women).  Government has crowded men out of the market by making it too expensive to compete in.  It would be no different if the government came in and created a law putting the price of Playstation 4 at $5,000.  Some people would buy it, but most others would simply not be able to afford it.  However, instead of less video games being played, government's vying for the affection of women has resulted in less marriages.  Perhaps they can design a government check that will hug you back at night. 
Why Post-Scarcity Economics is Scary 
Follow along if you will on a mental exercise in post-scarcity economics."Post Scarcity" is basically a utopian ideal of economists.  It means everything is free because things are no longer scarce.  Matter of fact the entire study of economics would be unnecessary in a world where resources were unlimitedly plentiful and not scarce.  But to really wrap your brain around the concept of "post scarcity" you have to understand what it really means.If resources were unlimited, everything would be free.  Cars would be free just as gumballs would be free.  And because everything is free, then NOTHING would have value.  There would be no prices.  Just "stuff."You can kind of imagine this if you've ever seen Star Trek where they have the replicator.  As a child you might say, "Well I'd replicate a ton of diamonds and be rich!"  But the problem is there is no "rich" or "poor" in a post-scarcity economy.  The diamonds have no value because they can be replicated ad-infinitum, just like everything else.  Again, NOTHING would have value, NOTHING would have a price.  Matter of fact in a TRULY 100% post scarcity economy, you wouldn't even have money, because,what would you buy?  Everything is free.Naturally, a 100% post-scarcity world is actually impossible.  Even if we perfect 3 d printing, you need people to maintain the 3d printers, people to transport goods, electricity, not to mention maintain the infrastructure of society as well as some government services to manage the humans.  But what is interesting about economics (and humanity) is that though a 100% pure post-scarcity economy is impossible, we are constantly, asymptotically approaching it.  Just 100 years ago food was kind of a huge issue.  Now it isn't.  Just 250 year ago, electricity was a huge issue (non-existent).  Now it isn't.  And thus, though we will never have EVERYTHING be truly free, because of technological advances, we are constantly closing in on that post scarcity goal.This then leads the human mind into an interesting world.  If 3d printers actually deliver on all of their promises, it will be the first time in human history where your physical needs are met at zero or near zero cost.  This then behooves the question:"What will humans do or pursue in life?"Realize you, me and everybody else works a fair percentage of our lives working up the money to pay for everything.  But if "everything" (or most everything) were free, what would the economy be about then?  What would humans work and live for?The answer is other humans. Specifically, sex and attention.Imagine again there is no such thing as money.  Material goods and physical possessions are limitlessly abundant.  What would then have any kind of value in this society and economy?  Well, with physical goods being completely free, the only thing would be non-physical goods or services, namely provided by humans.  And because of our binary sexual nature, this would leave only two goods or services left to be traded.Sex and attention.Men would want sex from women and women would want attention from men.Of course, this trade has always been going on, but has been confused or complicated with physical goods.  Men needed to display their income earning potential to convince women that are good providers, so they would buy "expensive stuffs" like sports cars, Rolexes, etc. to peacock around.  But, alas, in a post-scarcity world, this role would be rendered obsolete, relegating the man solely to his ability to provide attention to score some sex.  Women would also face a much more simplified economy.  Instead of having to work all those extra hours to buy a pravda purse and pay off her Masters Degree in English, she now just has to earn mens' attention by solely focusing on her physical beauty.  And this is where it gets scary.Though it's impossible to predict, as far as my SAEG (TM) tells me, a post scarcity world would be nothing more than a super, hyper-sexualized world where the last remaining economy is purely based on men's ability to be ripped and buff, and women's ability to make themselves as pretty as possible. In other words, imagine Miley Ray Cyrus and roided up guys at the gym, but a hundred times more vain, slutty, and self-obsessed.  Millions of them, all trying to outdo each other in order to garner the most about of sex/attention they can.In short what would happen is an arms race based on narcissism, looks, beauty, and the like that would drive both the supply and demand curves to the right for sex and attention.

Normally, economists would agree this is a good thing.  When the supply and demand curves for anything shift right, you have increased production but (assuming proportional increases in supply and demand) no increase in price.  But my fear is at what human cost.Humans are not cars or widgets.  And matter of fact, intellectual conversation and stimulation I believe is the most important thing humans can provide other humans, something physical items can't.  But with everybody racing for the gym, getting the latest implants, and injecting themselves with the latest roids, it is unlikely such a vain society will stimulate intelligence, let alone intelligent conversation.  And so my second prediction.Should post-scarcity ever occur, it will fragment humans into two camps.1.  Those willing to expend the effort necessary to participate in the arms war of sex/attention2.  Those not willing to expend the effort and instead focus on intelligence and personalityThe first group will likely breed and populate the future as their entire focus is on sex and attraction.  The second group, though maybe not as much, will still copulate, but focus on less physical and more mental qualities and traits.  Naturally, over time, these two groups will evolve with one group becoming "hotter" and the other group "uglier," but it makes me wonder if over time and because of the "hyper arms-sex-attention race" post scarcity would instill in the "hot group," that they would evolve into separate different species (and is here where my speculation runs out as I am not a great biologist, geneticist, let alone philosopher, and is perhaps where others might take over).However, as I said before, this was a mental exercise.  There are many variables that would make such a scenario unlikely, even impossible, and I would hope some of you would point those out (besides, it would only take one generation focusing on looks and not the engineering needed to keep the 3d replicators operational that would end the post-scarcity economy).  But before economists cheer for a post-scarcity economy, they may want to think about what it would replace and what the consequences might be.  
The Unspoken Efficiency Loss of Keynesianism 
As I age I find Keynesianism, and by extension, the entire field of economics, a progressively childish, idiotic, and naive discipline.  It's not difficult. It's not hard.  And only academics and ulteriorly-motivated bankers would try to make the field more complicated than it is to either bloat their egos or just outright steal money.  And so, much like I tire of criticizing childish ideologies like socialism, global warming, or religion, I also get tired of arguing the merits or drawbacks of different economic theories because, frankly, nobody really cares about economics as much as they care about defending their fiefdom from reality or truth.But if there is one criticism I've yet to make of Keynesian economic philosophy idiocy, it's the efficiency loss."Efficiency loss?" you might ask.Yes, efficiency loss.The whole underpinning argument of Keynesianism is that the government needs to intervene when "aggregate demand" is not meeting aggregate supply.  And while Keynes advocated things that worked on the stimulus side (tax cuts), he also advocated boosting government spending with a magical "multiplier" effect.  Take money from one person (ie - rich), give it to another person (ie - poor), and that poor person will spend that money which will boost aggregate demand, as well as set forth a chain reaction of demand-fueled spending with that multiplier effect all Keynesians swoon over. The common response to this fallacy is that merely taking money from one individual and giving it to another does not increase aggregate demand.  You stole money from one person who now has to spend less, which would negate any demand increase caused by this wealth transfer.  Keynesians would argue that "well if we borrowed it, instead of taxed people, then everybody would spend more and this wouldn't happen!"  Wrong again, because in borrowing that money, that is less money that can be lent out and invested, once again having no effect on overall demand.But there is an often overlooked drawback to Keynesianism, specifically giving people money in the form of welfare, wealth transfers, etc., that nobody addresses.  And that is the fact when you give somebody money for free, that is lost labor or production that should have happened.For example for people like you and me and other real adults, if we want to get money we need to produce something of value to get it.  This could be fixing cars, producing cell phones, or doing somebody's taxes.  Whatever it is, it increases economic production, genuinely increases our standards of living, and results in a richer society.  But with Keynesianism, especially of the Obama socialist variety, millions of people get trillions of dollars in exchange for absolutely jack.  This "efficiency loss" is the true weakness or criticism of Keynesianism because you basically blew $1 trillion for nothing in exchange.  This "cycle" or "rotation" of spending WITHOUT A COMMENSURATE LEVEL OF PRODUCTION OF GOODS AND SERVICES not only results in no economic growth, but dilutes the purchasing power of the currency.Don't believe me? OK, consider this.Let's say everybody who collects a government check could not do so without first working on some kind of public works project at a pro-rated rate of the median wage to earn that check.  Working on the highways, fixing street lights, cleaning up the road, etc.  Do you have any idea how impeccably clean and mint our highway system would be?  Or instead said welfare recipients were required to work at the local GM plant (it's government motors after all) doing whatever odd and non-specialized chores the mechanics and assemblers didn't want to do.  Could you imagine how cheap GM cars would be?The point is whether it was a public work or some kind of private company, society would benefit from requiring recipients of government checks to produce at least SOMETHING of value in exchange for the money.  Today we literally piss away about $2 trillion a year and get nothing in exchange.  Were there no such thing as welfare, production would be on the other side of that money, resulting in genuine economic growth, genuine economic production, and genuine prosperity.Of course, I'm being foolish and naive criticizing this aspect of Keynesianism from an intellectually honest and economic standpoint.  I know it is nothing more than bribing the parasitic classes to vote for the socialists.  I know about half the population couldn't give two shits less about the future of the economy or the country.  And I know that about half the population has no moral qualms about being the parasites they are.I'm just making the economic argument against this aspect of Keynesian economics in the vain hopes the Keynesians would have a cup of STFU, and to show just how stupid Nancy Pelosi and Barack Obama are when they say government checks are the best thing for the economy.  
Why Profit is Mandatory 
I have to snicker every time I overhear some naive 20 something faux-intellectual blather on about about "bad" profit is."Profit is evil.""Profit is bad.""How dare you profit off of (fill in the blank here)""Excessssssss profits"etc.And the reason I laugh is because saying "profit is bad" is like saying,"gravity is bad"or"water is bad"or"the laws of physics are bad."So let us all pour ourselves a very cappy cap drink, saddle in, and enjoy ourselves a much-needed lesson in the concept of "profit.".When people hear "profit" they usually associate it ONLY with profits that are begotten by businesses.  Corporate profits, Wall Street, 401k's, etc.,  But profit in the literal sense is merely "excess money" or "excess resources." For example if I start a business and I invest $20,000 in doing so, and that company then generates $30,000 in sales, that excess $10,000 in money is profit.  This is the example we are all familiar with, but this concept can be applied elsewhere.Say an individual has an option to stay at home on Saturday day.  He isn't going to go to work without having some kind of incentive to work.  So in order for him to get off his butt and work you are going to have to pay him.  You are going to have to pay him an amount of money that is more valuable to him than his leisure.  i.e. - you are going to have to make it profitable for him. In other words, profit doesn't just apply to just those evil, rich private sector businesses, but EVERY single economic entity in the world.CompaniesGovernmentsIndividualsand yes, even (ironically)"Non-profits."And the reason why is very simple - nothing would get done without the incentive for profit.  None of those economic actors would go into action, labor away, or produce anything without it.Leftist of a particularly idiotic and idealistic stripe contest otherwise.  They often pine wistfully for a "world without profits."  But simply ask yourself what kind of a world would that be?Without profits not one single business would be started.  Why would any would-be entrepreneur sacrifice his time, his money, and his labor NOT to make any money?  And with no businesses who, precisely, would be producing all the goods and services you and all those lovey lefties need to survive? (just ask those Venezuelans about toilet paper and electronics).  This goes a long way in explaining why there were lines for simple staples like BREAD in the Soviet Union.Also without profits why would anybody go to work?  I'm not allowed to keep the fruits of my labor?  Forget the fact no companies are hiring because none exist because profit has been outlawed; people wouldn't show up to the work in the first place if they weren't getting paid.What about all the suppliers, consultants, energy providers, accountants, lawyers, and other third parties that go into supporting a business?  If they are not allowed to profit why would anybody provide internet access to the company, computers, legal services, etc. if there was no profit?  What the left (and most non-accounting people on the right) fail to realize is that it isn't just the "evil rich business owners" that gets profits, but all his suppliers, vendors, employees, he pays.  In other words ALL of his expenses are other people's profits.And finally, the favorite den of leftists - government and non-profit.The ultimate hypocrisy I've ever witnessed of the left is their constant villainization of wealth, money, and profit, but in the same breath their CONSTANT clamoring for more of it.The public baby-sitters schools are CONSTANTLY begging for more money.The non-profits are ALWAYS short of cash.  The universities just need more money for those poor childrenbut not one of these hypocritical fucks ever live up to their "charitable image" accepting lower pay or (GASP!) actually VOLUNTEERING.No, I'm terribly sorry, profit is an absolute necessity for this or any other economy to work.  And the only people who advocate otherwise are the types too lazy to expend the 5 minutes of effort to think their ideology through. 
The Economics of the Sex and Attention Exchange 
Pour over the millions of articles written in thousands of magazine for the past hundred years about the dynamics and relations between men and women, and none of them will come close to the truth.  And that truth is:Men want sex,women want attentionand we trade.Of course in the olden days it was"Men want sex,women want resources and security,and we trade"but with the welfare state and government providing resources and security to women, respectively, women have replaced "security and resources" with "attention."So imagine my laughing when I read this little article sent to me by one of our Dancing Agents in the Field.To sum it up it was written by a woman who was SHOCKED, SHOCKED that men would dare to have the audacity to... (are you ready for this)USE SALSA DANCING AS A MEANS TO GET SEX!!!  *GASP!*I KNOW!!!  ME TOO!What evil men would do this!!!????Sarcasm aside, what we are witnessing here is what we could call asymmetric information in the "Sex-Attention" market, ie - one of the parties are mis or uninformed about the true nature of the market exchange.  In this case it happens to be the women, but what is interesting is not so much that women are misinformed, but HOW they came to be misinformed.First, ladies, you have to understand that for the most part, everything men do (especially when they are younger) is to try to get women.  Their primary goal, more often than not is NOTto get to know youto learn to salsa danceor because they have the same interest in movies or art that you doThey want to have sex with you.Whether you like this or not, is irrelevant.  And whether you deem this "moral or not," is moot.  It is factual.  It is a law.  If you don't like this you might as well get angry at things like "The Law of Gravity" or the fact that fire is hot.  Besides, you can see the empirical proof of this in two ways.1.  When the hot girls leave ANY dance scene it quickly dries up and becomes a 40 something virgin Christian singles scene or a greencard marketand2.  Ladies night.  Do you REALLY think ladies night is just because bar owners want to be nice to ladies?  It is because they are acutely aware of the law of the sex-attention exchange and know young men will spend tons of money on women buying them drinks...just like on non-ladies nights.So when a guys asks you to dance, yes, he may genuinely like to salsa.  And yes, he may genuinely want to improve his dancing.  But in the end his primary goal is to either get with you OR use you to improve his skills so that he may get with another girl he is attracted to.Second, knowing the true nature of "ballroom dancing dynamics," we must investigate why women are so misinformed about this and suffer from asymmetrical information.  And the answer is simple:Propaganda or "social conditioning."The biggest canard told to women today is that men's primary interest in them should be anything but sexual.  And if a man's primary interest was sexual, then he was a cad, a lout, and a scumbag (as explicitly detailed in the aforementioned link).  But once again, by the laws of nature, men's primary interest in women IS sexual and thus anything you've been told otherwise is a lie.  The problem, however, is if women believe these lies they are deluded into thinking they can get attention for free.  That men just selflessly, and pointlesslyspend hours, nay weeks, learning the various dances,fork over thousands of dollars in cover charges and dance lessons,waste months of their free time at clubs with (typically) lousy music, suffer rejection roughly 1 in every 2 times they ask a girl to dance,all for S's and G's and good ole fashioned, innocent, geewhillikers wholesome Jimmy Stewart, church-going fun.So when an accomplished dancer parades his female partner at the epicenter of the hottest night club, twirling her like a tornado, dipping her like fondue, making all the other women jealous, and thus begetting her more attention in 4 minutes than she received in the past 4 years, women SERIOUSLY expect there to be no-counter cost or price to that.  That the guy just made her the center of attention altruistically and selflessly.Only 20 years of media, government, feminist, and educational brainwashing could render women so asymmetrically naive.The sad, but natural consequence of this delusion is that as hotter women are approached more and are "insulted" men dared to have a sexual interest in them, they leave.  As there are less hot chicks, the better dancing males leave.  The overall quality of looks and talent drops, and the dance scene bubble pops.So how is a man supposed to approach the debate of whether he should learn to ballroom dance?  If the majority of women aren't there for romantic/sexual purposes, why expend the enormous amounts of energy learning to dance?Well boys, let the Ole Captain tell you.  You SHOULD go and learn to dance.  But you should not learn to dance as means to pick up girls.Not to say you won't pick up girls at a swing dance club or a salsa joint.  Sometimes you will.  But the primary benefit and reason every man should learn to dance is so that he can reward a quality woman he's already dating with attention.  Since (by my estimation) 85% of women on any dance scene are not there for sexual/courting reasons and are really just there for exercise/fun/attention reasons, 85% of your efforts will be wasted (bar the apprenticeship period where you're sole goal is to learn).  But if you have a loved one in your life and girl that DESERVES to be the center of attention on a dance floor or a night club, that's when you break out your rare talent.  In short use women to learn how to dance so that you may award quality women in the future with that skill. 
The Parasitic Human Bubble 
First there was the dotcom bubble.  Companies magically were 400% more valuable because you put a ".com" at the end or an "e-" or "i-" at the beginning of a company's name.Then there was the housing bubble.  Housing always goes up and ignore those liberals jacking up your property taxes making home ownership mathematically and factually a perpetuity liability.And naturally there's the education bubble.  "Major in what you want and the money will follow!"  "Any degree is good degree!"  "It'll open up doors!"  And thus came a wave of puppetry degrees, "Beyonce Studies," and "CIS-Gendered-Hermaphrodite-Peruvian-Lesbian-Poety" majors.  But while all of these bubbles did (and will have) devastating consequences for the economy.... "do you recall...the most devastating bubble of them all?"We can focus on individual sectors such as technology, real estate and education, but the largest and granddaddiest bubble is about to happen.  And it isn't going to hit a "sector" or a specific "industry" but pretty much half our population, and by default consume the remaining half - the parasitic human bubble.Understand that since the "Great Society" the United States (and most western nations) have been championing the losers of society.  Originally it was set out with good intentions.   Who doesn't want to help the poor?  Who doesn't want to help the disadvantaged?  Who doesn't want their fellow man to succeed and thrive?  But as we all know the road to hell is paved with good intentions and what once may have started out as a charitable endeavor quickly turned into a political tool for the left to bribe blocks, segments, divisions and groups of people into voting for them.  And as human nature is prone to do, the beneficiaries of these government programs raced to the bottom.  They didn't take the proceeds and use it to improve their lives, but instead used it to loaf around and enjoy leisure.  They didn't take the government cheese as a temporary measure to increase their skills to start a new successful career, but as a way to take a permanent vacation.  And they didn't view this charity as "other kind and generous people's money," but rather an entitlement they deserved.Fast forward several generations and throw in a good solid mix of socialist brainwashing from the public schools and media, and you now have a solid 50% of the population that is dependent upon the other half for their livelihood.  And not only are they parasitical, they are mentally brainwashed to see nothing wrong with it, some even hating and loathing their benefactors.Sadly, for the beneficiaries and the benefactors (more accurately, parasites and producers), this system cannot last.  For there are some Malthusian mathematical limits inherent into this system. What those precise limits are is hard to say, but sooner or later the number of parasites will grow to the point they will out-consume what the producers can possibly produce.And that's when the Parasitic Human Bubble will burst.Like the housing bubble or the dotcom bubble, it's hard to predict precisely how it will burst.It could be dramatic where one day the EBT cards won't work, the TANF check bounces, or the WIC office is closed.  The parasitic humans will get upset, raid the local grocery store or Wal-Mart before they starve, but this will only exacerbate their problems as on the supply side stores will close and refuse to be re-supplied.  Once their pilfered supplies run out, the parasitic humans will be forced to forage for food elsewhere forcing them into areas where people are more heavily armed, overly-taxed, and quite pissed off about being forced to support a parasitic class for decades.  Riots and firefights break out and in comes the National Guard.  Martial law is established, rationing is enforced, but this only sends us down the spiral further and faster as such restrictions grind the economy to a halt, and society inevitably collapses.It could be slow and controlled.  Politicians, even though incredibly stupid and corrupt, are forced to see the simple mathematical fact they don't have the money to maintain their bribery and are forced to slowly cut the supply of resources to the parasitic classes.  The parasitic humans complain and get angry (ever see the teachers union complain about a "cut in the INCREASE" of their budget and scream bloody murder?), but not enough to riot or cause civil disorder.  Unfortunately, for the leftist politicians, they are mathematically forced to commit to this new strategy of amortizing down the benefits of the parasitic humans, and over time slowly alienate their voter base.  It is possible, over time and over generations, the parasitic humans are forced to learn independence, self-reliance, heck, even "achievement," "entrepreneurship," and "excellence," but regardless of personal economic epiphanies, the parasite human bubble slowly deflates.  Of course the economy doesn't "boom" because of the crippling debt load we've taken on paying for bread and circuses and so the United States is relegated to a half-century-long stagnation like Japan or Italy.  Malaise sets in and western civilization stops advancing.Whichever scenario the outcome is not "good."  But the point I'm trying to make is one of:"Stand back and look at just how stupid it is we are arguing about this.  How far gone is society that I even have to write about this?"What did you expect when you let half your population believe "there's such a thing as a free lunch?"  What were you thinking constantly advocating victimization, woeismeism, and parasitism?  What did you think the consequences were going to be?  Set your crafty, dishonest, disingenuous, made-out-of-whole-cloth academian arguments of "sexism" "racism" "class warfare" "evil corporations" aside, deep down inside you know thatmathematicallyfactuallyin the real worlda society cannot exist where one half loafs off of the other half in the long run.  And the simplicity of this fact does not debunk it.  Matter of fact, it only reinforces it and exposes the "elaborate" socio-political-economic arguments people on the left make for the smoke screens they are.  They are masking the fact they are one of four things:1.  Evil - for knowingly lying to parasitic humans about economic reality so that they may benefit politically2.  Dumb - for actually BELIEVING in such idiocy that half a population is somehow "entitled" or "deserves" the production of the other half, AND that somehow that system is sustainable3.  Intellectually Lazy - because to take the time to think things economically through, not to mention look at budgets is too much effort for most leftists 4.  All of the Above - Which is the category I find most leftists fall intoThankfully, I will suffer very little of the consequences of leftists' stupidity.  I will likely die before the United States and western civilization "really" collapses or ends.  Additionally, history will be on sanity's side as historians 2,000 years from now look at dependency ratios and ask "WTF were those leftists idiots thinking!?"  But most importantly I don't have kids who will suffer the consequences of my generation's idiotic leftist decisions.  This is the "true" revenge I will savor and salivate over, for most leftists are so dumb and intellectually lazy (not to mention arrogant) they will NEVER admit they're wrong.  It's too core to their ego and pride. And either out of ignorance or ego most will have children and bring them into this world.  A world they created, a world they made, a world they are completely responsible for, and one that will be terribly unkind to their genetic skin in the game. 
How Economic Bubbles Disproportionately Harm Women and Minorities 
If there was ever something that caused my life serious damage it was nothing purposeful or untoward, but rather unintentional.  Specifically, people lying to me to spare my feelings.  We've all experienced this before.  Your female friends telling you you'll make some girl happy...just not them.  Follow your heart and the money will follow...in the form of an unemployment check.  Hard work and a strong work ethic will be rewarded...by manipulative bosses who will make you work overtime.  No doubt, like me, these lies you were world cost you years of your life and hundreds of thousands of dollars in lost opportunities because the people in your life then could not muster the courage to tell you the harsh truth.Conversely, those that have the genuine heart to tell you the truth, are likely the ones responsible for what modicum of success you did have in life.  Your father telling you to change your own damn oil.  The girl who had the heart to say you needed to lift weights.  Or the rare guidance counselor that said, "No, son, you're not going to make it with a degree in communications."The reason polite lies wreak incalculable damage as opposed to harsh truth is that lies, no matter how kind, do not adhere to The Reality Principle while the truth does.  Ergo, in telling people the truth, no matter how harsh, you are ACCURATELY informing them about reality, allowing them to make decisions based in the real world, and thus have better results and success in life.This conundrum or paradox, however, perfectly explains women's and minorities' effective "2nd place" in the US and other western nations as they are both the victims of "kind lies."  Propagandized by left-wing politicians, they are led to believe that their second place ranking in society is due to "discrimination" or "sexism."  That women earn 25% less than men because of discrimination...not because they major in easier subjects and work less than men.  That minorities median income is only 78% white's because of evil racism...not that fact 70% of blacks are born out of wedlock which cripples their future financial endeavors.While you, me, and any other regular visitor here to Cappy Cap Land knows this, there is another way this left-wing propaganda harms minorities.  And it's particularly devastating:Economic bubbles.To simplify it, let's say you're a white male.  You're evil, you're sexist, and you don't even know it because you're privileged.  That's all fine and dandy, but in the end, it does not "blind" you to various economic realities.  You're likely aware you have to work hard, probably major in a STEM field, and you're also likely to know not to have kids before you're 30.  The majority of propaganda is to make you feel guilty so you are more willing to pay more in taxes so that the socialist party and continue it's bribery of non-white male people.  It is NOT to delude you about your future or economic reality.However, the same cannot be said for minorities and women.  Leftist propaganda not only deludes minorities and women into thinking white males and discrimination is the cause of their second-placeness, but that they can do ANYTHING they want.  Ergo, not only is their performance dismissed away (because of you evil white males you), but they can do "anything" and "have it all."The single, independent, Roundhouse Kicking Chick Cop Show woman CAN become a cop, get her law degree, become a judge at 38, teach at the local university, be a cougar at 48, and find the love of her life to start a family with at a wrinkly 53.The poor black kid CAN become the ganster-rap artist, an NBA 1st draft pick, a future full back for the NFL, or a general P-Diddy-esque socialite.  Just keep rapping and lifting weights like the other 30 million black kids, and don't think about engineering or accounting.  YOU CAN DO WHATEVER YOU WANT, FOLLOW YOUR DREAMS, labor market realities and "aspiring rap artists'" life expectancies be damned.I can go on, but the point is that they are not only deluded to think they never made a mistake and are therefore not responsible for their current position in life, but that they are capable of, if not entitled to, great success.This puts minorities and women in a very dangerous economic mentality because unless they paid particular attention to their college economic courses (assuming they were even taught by a competent economist), they are completely blind to the risks involved with "having it all" and "living the American dream."  This makes them incredibly susceptible to bubbles.For example (and this is the observation I had that prompted this post) look at the racial and sexual composition of Facebook/Twitter posters on "Law School Lemmings."  Though not the majority, minorities and women account for a disproportionately high percentage of the kids posting about law school and how they can't wait to attend/graduate.  But it's quite apparent than nobody has told them that schools are producing 2 law graduates for every 1 job currently being offered.  Matter of fact, the propaganda is so thorough current applicants and acceptees to law school are completely tuning out the dire financial straits current law graduates are facing today.  The consequence will be that of which only pretty lies can deliver - graduates with $250,000 in debt, no job prospects, and a destroyed financial future.Another example, the housing bubble.  It wasn't until the later and last stages of the housing bubble were lending standards lowered so far (both by bankers desperate to keep the bubble going and politicians that wanted to "help" minorities) that minorities and women started entering the housing market in droves.  While at the time this may have seemed like "help" and women and minorities were "finally" going to achieve the American dream, all they managed to do was buy into the most inflated housing bubble in history AT ITS PEAK, and thus suffer the largest decline when it burst.And finally, the retirement bubble.  Again, late to the party, women and minorities (and especially young people) who overcome their economic disposition "finally" have enough money to start stashing away for retirement.  Hurray!  Celebration!  Joy!  They're buying into a market that based on PE ratios is 60% overvalued.  Never mind that would be the exact same thing as being excited to pay what amounts to $5.20 for a gallon of gas, the propaganda and pretty lies have made them think the ability to invest is the goal unto itself, not to get an adequate rate of return (and don't even get me started about how Barack Obama's MyRA harms the disadvantaged).We could go on, but the point is simply this - in lying to two general classes of people for political reasons you've denied them the ability to be truly independent minded and thorough in their due diligence of researching particular investments.  This is bad enough as it impairs their ability to truly assess various investments, but since you did NOT lie to the other group of people (white males) you've allowed a segment of the population to invest in different areas of life.  This "smart money" or at least "non-propagandized money" invests when it makes sense, realizes the majority of gains in these investments, AND drives up prices to the point it may get bubbly.  When other segments of the population realize how these different investments are "on fire" (housing, Dotcom, education, etc.) they come in, with what little money they have as Johnny-Come-Latelys only to be the last "bigger fool" of the "Bigger Fool Theory," buying when prices were highest, ergo getting the worst deal, and therefore suffering disproportionately compared to their White Male (and naturally-implied) Evil counterparts.It is here everybody of all races and sexes need to wake up and realize the damage lying to different groups of people in an effort to alienate them, and thus conscript them as life-long voters for left-wing politicians, causes.  Women and minorities are not suffering an effective second-place citizenship because of evil white males or discrimination or sexism.  They are suffering a second place citizenship because leftists and socialists have been lying to them for decades.  Worse still, they believe it, and consequently pay a horrible economic price (Detroit anyone?)Alas, it is not under my control nor my responsibility to get people to appreciate harsh truths over warm-fuzzy-feelings lies.  I have my own life and have been lectured enough by various sectors of society for daring to speak the truth or hold women and minorities up to the standards I would white males (ie-treating them as genuine equals which I thought was what the goal was).  But what I hope will convince women and minorities is how time and time again socialist and leftist causes and promisesput them in houses they can't afford only to be repossessedlead them to chase impossible dreams instead or realistic onesdestroy their communities and citiesruin their familiesput them $250,000 in debt for a degee that just won't payand in short, just completely destroy and ruin their lives.Then again, I've never seen such propaganda that was so thorough and so effective.  It would not surprise me if the entirety of my brilliant argument above would simply be dismissed with an accusation of being "white male" or having some kind of "privilege" thus blinding my "ignorant ass" to the "real problems."Oh well, enjoy the decline.  
The Maple Grove Economy 
A few clicks south and about 10 more west you'll run into a town called "Maple Grove."Well, there really isn't a town or veritable "city center" there, but that geographical location is called "Maple Grove."Maple Grove, for the most part, is inconsequential to yours, mine, or anybody else's life.  But there is an important economic lesson to pull from it that is consequential to our lives.  And that lesson is what the entire American economy is slowly morphing into.Understand that Maple Grove did not exist at all of 10 years ago.  When I was in college it was where the city and suburbs ended and farmland began.  But 10 years ago, overnight seemingly, it burst into a large sprawled out, multi-mega-strip mall area. It now covers about 5 times the surface area of the Mall of America, has (by my ballpark estimation) more retail space and outlets than the MOA, and if it doesn't already, it will have more restaurants than the MOA.  If you name a chain restaurant, a national retailer, or any kind of American brand name, Maple Grove has it.When this massive development first went in, my economic spidey senses tingled at the back of my mind.  I couldn't understand it on several levels.  One, where was the city center?  Why did all these stores and retail outlets just open up in this area?  Was there some center of commerce I was unaware of that economically warranted such a development?  Two, who the hell would go there?  It was the epitome of cookie cutter.  There was not ONE unique restaurant in the entire area.  Just Applebee's after Houlihans after California Pizza Kitchen, after Joe's Crab Shack.  Only the most boring, SWPL, mindless suburban automotons would patronize the place, and I didn't think there was a high enough SWPL population make all those businesses financially viable.  Three, by god, there was a high enough SWPL population to make it financially viable.  HOW???  How could there be that many milquetoast people?  There's enough flavorless people in the area to make this a go???  But the key thing that was tickling the back of my brain, but never made it to the frontal lobes until last week was;Where is all the production?  How does this purely retail economy exist?  How is this supportable in the long run?And thus the important economic lesson.Realize that in the Maple Grove economic nothing is produced.  Only consumed.  There are no factories, no assemblies, no plants.  It is 100% pure, cookie cutter retail.  Maple Grove's "Municipal Gross Product" is 100% retail clerks, waiters, bartenders and baristas selling you things that are made outside of its city limits.  It is the first entire city that is solely dependent upon retail and would not exist otherwise.  But while Maple Grove effectively only serves as a large sprawled out mall, it is a microcosm of what is in store for the American economy.  A fate where we slowly switch from that of a industrial, productive economy where actual things of value are produced to one where we merely become...one big ass mall.  Already this is happening to a certain extent globally.  The West, including America, the UK, and western Europe act like the world's mega-malls.  China, SE Asia, India and nearly all other 2nd world serve as our factories.  And the debutantes of western society act likes spoiled suburbanite princesses, borrowing money from daddy (China and other creditors) so they can buy worthless, meaningless crap that only serves to play an unwinnable status game in the West.  However, equilibrium is universal, and no unsustainable system can survive.  And thus, just like Maple Grove or a suburbanite princess cannot maintain their parasitical existence without the constant supply of foreign made goods (and credit), so too will the American economy inevitably collapse.Maybe not today, maybe not tomorrow, and maybe not even next year, but the time will come that China, Japan, the Arab nations and other creditors will realize that America is just a mall, it's people suburbanite princesses, and that we really don't produce anything of value here.  Once that happens, the dollar will drop in value, nobody will lend us any more money, and unfathomable amount of economic hurt will slam into our increasingly spoiled and delusional people.  Adult-children more concerned about privilege, falsely claiming PSTD, the earnings gap, or the Kardashians will be blindsided as society is no longer concerned about their petty, politically drummed up drama, but rather why there is no electricity, why gas is up to $5 a gallon, and why their bank accounts were haircutted.  Their primary concern won't be whether they can live at home, but whether mom and dad can even afford food for the week.  And they're going to be begging and pleading to work as a barista as Starbucks lays off 70% of its labor force because nobody can afford a $7 cup of coffee.Of course, this is already happening to a certain extent already.  Matter of fact, I'm surprised our foreign creditors hadn't dumped the US dollar sooner.  But they are, and the "factory" of the world is slowly realizing the US for the financial deadbeat that it is and switching out of US dollars, increasing reserves in gold and other currencies.  We are now engaging in thinly-veiled inflationary hanky-panking with our "quantitative easing" as one last final desperate ruse to make it seem like everything is normal.  This is nothing more than daddy going to the bank to secure one last desperate Keynesian loan to keep his trophy wife and princess happy and spending, "hopefully turning the economy around."But it won't work.  And the reason is simple.  No economy can exist purely on consumption.  It needs to produce something of value.  And while Keynesians, economic professors, and idiot presidents may tell you otherwise, in the end you are foolish to believe them, just as you would be foolish to believe Maple Grove is a self-sustaining economy.Consider that next time you order the chicken quesadillas at Applebee's while celebrating a hard day of shopping for a new Korean-made smart phone and an Indonesian-made scarf in "The MG." 
The Economics of Robots Replacing Human Labor 
A commenter on my Youtube channel, though leftist, did indeed make a comment that made me think.  He said that, ideally, and hopefully in the near future, robots will replace human labor resulting in everybody's needs being met.  This would wipe out nearly all jobs, but would allow for and mandate a guaranteed income for most humans, even those that did not work.Though idealistic, poppycock like this can only come from leftist 20 somethings steeped in academia and too much reality TV, there were strains and elements of his point that did make sense, or at least intrigued me, and thus merited a full thinking through.  And so I donned my motorcycle helmet, put on my gloves, and hopped on the ole Cappy Capp Cycle and headed out west to think this one through.And think through it I did.  So permit me to share the results.The first thing to point out about a utopia in which robots do all of our labor and we loaf around like Roman emperors is that it is never going to be possible.  Human labor will still be required for tasks that robots are just not ever going to be capable of.  Most obvious of which is who will program, build, and maintain the robots?  Relatedly, robots not being sentient and incapable of identifying a need in the market will not know what robots to build in the first place to meet the ever changing and evolving demands of humans.  Also, robots are incapable of trouble shooting and doing complex diagnoses such as a "ghost" in your motorcycle, a medical problem, or an active crime, let alone coming up with the solution to fix such problems.  Finally, humans also want the human touch.  This could be anything from a massage, spa treatment, or waiting tables to books, movies, art, and umm....*ahem* the eldest profession.Because of this, the best of my thinking leads me to believe that there will be at least THREE general types of human labor that will never go away:1.  Programmers and builders of robots2.  Tradesman that require non-programmable skills that can solve randomness (surgeons, plumbers, lawyers, mechanics, etc.3.  Personal human or "vanity" servicesThere could certainly be more and no doubt we could debate about the above, but in the "Robot Economy" one thing is for certain - what human jobs do exist will be classified into two general cateogies:High skillandLow skillYou will either decide at the age of 15 "Eh, I just want a life of leisure and will live off of my mandating income, maybe working a shift as a waiter" or "No, I want to go the extra mile and become a surgeon."  This will result in a heavily skewed or asymptotic labor market with two very distinct classes within:

So far there is nothing technically wrong with this theoretical economy.  If robots and technology are efficient enough you only need a small percentage of "high skilled" workers to support the robots which in turn supports the much more numerous "low skilled" workers.  Matter of fact, this would indeed be ideal and I'd be all for it. There just a couple problems...as there always is with ideas coming out of academia.1.  Some Humans Breed to Resource CapacityIf we could be assured that humans would only have a certain amount of children, this idealistic economy may work.  Unfortunately, humans have a tendency to breed to the point their resources are stretched.  Admittedly, not ALL humans do this, some living within their means, but noticed how I said, "some" humans and not "all."  The reason why is that it only takes SOME humans to outbreed past the productive capacity of the entire roboticized economy.  And before you jump to conclusions about which humans those are, I would say nearly all of them.Africans are the most obvious of this example.  Trillions of dollars in aid didn't increase the income per capita of Africa in large part because just more capita were made.  It is NOT a coincidence that the poorest countries have the highest birthing rates.  Regardless, more money doesn't result in increased standards of livings with some humans, just more capita.But what of those responsible suburbanite SWPL people only having 1.4 children per couple?  See they're not breeding past the productive capacity of said roboticized industries!Oh, you mean the people who "have to" buy McMansions they can't afford, lease cars that cost more than my mortgage, wear clothes that will be out of fashion in 6 months, and keep those monstrosities of debt-fueled spending frenzies called "malls" in business all while majoring in sociology thinking that career will pay for their outlandishly expensive dreams?You mean those fiscally austere and responsible people?Yeah, right, they'll NEVER out-consume the productive ability of the roboticized economy.In short, it really doesn't matter your race is.  The point is even if you come from the poorest classes on the planet or hail from the richest, it is human nature to consume to the point your finances are stretched.  This will put pressure on not just the roboticized economy to constantly produce more and more, but insane demands on the humans on the back-end of said economy to keep up with the insatiable demands of the low-skill class.2.  The Human Ego Will Not Abide a 95% Low Skill ClassIf there's something I've learned in the past 4 years about humans, it's that they need ego just as much as they need food, clothing and shelter.Let's say you magically get it to where 5% of "high skilled humans" can build, manage, and maintain a roboticized economy that supports the remaining 95%.In that 95% what percent are going to accept a life and career as a waiter, a backrubber, a smiley hotel bell boy, or just nothing?  Can you see the DudeBro's being told they aren't going to become investment bankers?  Can you see the 30 something independent single woman being told she is not going to have a career in social work?  Can you see the Millennial kid being told he's not going to be needed as a lawyer?They'd all throw temper tantrums. What you need to realize today that nearly 40% of the employment we have today (most of which is in government, non-profit, and academia) is NOT for some kind of productive purpose that serves society, but is there SOLELY to benefit the ego of two full generations of adult children who are talentless, but are too emotionally fragile to accept it.  The HR ditz, the social worker, the teacher, the fireman, the life guard, the non-profit director, you name it.  But not only are they too emotionally fragile to accept this reality, they are also too egotistical.  They will NOT sit idly by, getting the "High Skilled Person's Test" in this theoretical utopia, finding out they failed, and are condemned to merely collecting a check or being a spa person.In other words, not only will the Roboticized Economy need to produce enough to provide for the basics of the 95% low-skill class, it will have to have a surplus production of (what I'd estimate to be) an additional 40% GDP to create entire faux "Ego Employment Industries" so millions can make believe and play pretend "professional worker person"...much like we do today.3.  Class EnvyIf you think income distribution, class warfare, and class envy is bad now, just wait till the robots take over!The irony is of course those who clamor for such a roboticized economy and things like "guaranteed income" would be the first to be protesting the "unfairness" and "economic injustice" that those surgeons and robot programmers were making so much more than they were.Never mind that their food, clothing, and shelter is paid for.Never mind no human in the history of the world has enjoyed such a life of leisure.Never mind the above-mentioned system would be as close as humans could get to a genuine "Utopia."It would be a matter of nano-seconds before the leftists' human nature of envy, greed, and hatred would forget their enviable life of leisure, and start coveting what the high-skill class of humans have.The truth is that while this utopia is impossible to attain, society has constantly been moving towards it asymptotically the entire time.  The West has made amazing, jaw-dropping advances that would no doubt seem magical to people alive just 200 years ago.  People back then would have killed and been thankful for what we have today and wouldn't care that they live in the lower skill class.  But as is human nature, particularly of the leftist variety, if you grow up surrounded by it, you tend to envy and then villainize the productive people in your society.  Ergo, the roboticized asymptotic curve will always forever move towards a perpendicular right angle, providing the masses ever increasing standards of living, but they'll only focus on what the producers have and they don't.  Thus, while technology and innovation may in theory make such an economy a possibility (one can say it already has), it is human nature that will prevent it from being realized.  
The Real Rate of Return of Stocks 
Follow young Cappy on this financial and intellectual endeavor and learn something you just aren't going to find in the MSM.Understand that there is no such thing as capital gains when it comes to stocks.Yes, I know there IS such a thing and that it is proven everyday day, but theoretically there shouldn't be any capital gains, let alone an entire retirement industry based on capital gains because, in theory, a market would be efficient enough to price all future profits into the current day price of a stock leaving no room for capital gains.So why would you own a stock?Dividends, my good boy.  Dividends.The reason why is that dividends are THE ONLY THING THAT IS PRODUCED BY A CORPORATION THAT IS ACTUALLY PAID OUT TO ITS SHAREHOLDERS.  And this is a very important reality to understand if you wish to understand the value of stocks, because when you buy a stock you aren't"buying the right to vote"or"purchasing a percentage of the firm's assets"you're not even getting"a percentage of the firm's profits."No, you get a proportional percentage of the dividends that are paid out, if any.That's it.  That's all a stock is.  A right to a proportional percentage of future dividends the company may pay out.Ergo, it is ONLY dividends that matter and drive the value of a stock.So how do stock prices stack up against the dividends they pay?  What kind of percent rate of return can you expect from dividends?  Well historically you could expect a rate of return around 5%.  But with retirement dollars and QE money flooding the market, stocks have been driven so high without a commensurate increase in dividends that you getare you ready for it?a WHOPPING 2% rate of return!But are you really even getting that?I was listening to the Kerry Lutz show and he had Danielle Park on who made the very astute point of "what about inflation?"Indeed what about inflation and so with my SAEG I went and calculated the dividend yield going back to 1914 and adjusted it for inflation.  And shucks howdy, look at that!
Stocks really haven't been providing a positive rate of return since about the mid 70's.A couple points, however.One, the negative rates of return from 1974 on are obviously caused by the oil embargoes and inflationary days of the late 70's.  However, ever since then, rates have more or less remained marginally negative, stocks never really beating out inflation.  It behooves the question why are stocks going up at in real terms since their ONLY driver of value (dividends) is effectively providing negative rates of return?Two, the retirement bubble got it's official kick off in 1978 when we had our first ordained retirement plan (the 401k).  Since then the stock market has been flooded with dollars which may have driven up capital gains (and made everybody happy on paper), but driven the real rate of return on dividends below zero.Three, despite the dramatic increase in the stock market since 2008, you'd think inflation-adjusted dividend yields would be driven into negative territory.  However, oddly enough, they're positive in the fraction of a percentage point range.Why?Inflation is very low...or so we're told.The question is if you believe the official CPI numbers being churned out.The larger point is not one of whether inflation is being manipulated or retirement dollars are flooding the market or QE-X is driving prices higher, but yields lower.  It's just what a lousy investment stocks have been post - WWII when you look at the only thing they produce - dividends.We don't get excited about bonds that only pay 3%We whine about our savings accounts and CD's only paying 1%But by god and shucks howdy, we'll plow trillions into a stock market that pays -.5% because...capital gains.I just hope when Economics 101 classes are taught in the future, right along side the "Holland Tulip Bubble" some kind econ prof will cite this post. 
Hoarder Economics 
While therapists and TV network producers aim to profit off of hoarders, none of them ever get around to actually solving the problem at its genetic level.  They treat it, they have interventions, sometimes an increasingly-rare father figure comes in, bypasses them all, and lays down the law.  But by and large the phenomenon is one that persists.However, with my patented SAGE (TM) I have found an economic rationale or "counterargument" for what is the number one excuse hoarders use to explain why they hoard -"It has value"or"I can use this in the future."And I think for those of you that must suffer hoarders, it will prove invaluable. Let us set aside the argument that their basement-dwelling, mold-infested, "Computer Programming Today" magazines from the 1970's really don't have any value.  Let us set aside the argument that Beanie Babies don't pay dividends and provide no cash flow.  And let us set aside the argument that all those clothes haven't been worn in 10 years and are obsoleted through fashion.Let's just assume EVERYTHING a hoarder hoards has value.So where do you store it?Well, you have many options where to store this stuff.  But the problem is that no matter where you store it, it's going to cost money to store it.A rental facility costs rent.Your house has a mortgage (and property taxes, insurance, maintenance, etc. even if you pay the mortgage)And your apartment also costs rent.And if you've ever been in realty you know that rent, housing and storage costs are measured by (what metric was that again?)  oh, that's right$/square foot.This is often the variable the hoarder's brain fails to account for.  That even if their stuff did have value, which it doesn't, they are still paying for it in that they must house it SOMEWHERE.  And the more stuff they have, the more they must pay.  You calculate total storage cost, and the fact they NEVER sell it, the true storage costs are at least thrice any potential value of all the stuff.Naturally, for genuine psycho-hoarders who have an emotional vestment in their junk this logical economic argument will not force them to start jettisoning their junk.  BUT for the "sane hoarders:"Great Depression generationPeople brought up under povertyA cluttery husbandand pretty much every female in America (yuk yuk yuk)this handy economic rationale may open their eyes to how hoarding junk is really costing them more in the long run...not to mention grant you that sanity of having a clean house you can finally enjoy.  
Reversing the Economic Argument 
In being a preacher's son forced to go to parochial school, what information went into my little toddler brain was very controlled and very deliberate.  Therefore, like all young children who don't know any better, my brain was limited in it's capacity to fight against what my lizard brain knew was lies, deceit, and sometimes outright mental abuse because it was confined and structured by "facts" that were not facts at all.  Things like "I will go to hell if I sin," "If you don't love Jesus you will go to hell," and "the Bible is truth."  There are literally thousands more instances of these false facts that religious people use to restrict people's brains, but the larger point is that in getting a young child to agree to false premises, you effectively handicap that individual from ever legitimately arguing against, let alone, challenging the religion.  In other words, in a very cowardly way, you fool the child into thinking that s/he can only debate or argue against the religion by using ordained and approved religious techniques.  And therefore instead of questioning something as fundamental as proof of god or how precisely a guy nailed to a plank of wood forgives you for putting a snake in Suzie Jone's desk never comes to the forefront as you are instead too busy trying to parse and interpret bible passages.But a funny thing happened to me today as I was riding my motorcycle around Lake Pepin.  I had one of those epiphanies where the light just shot on, forcing me to pull over and take notes so that I would not forget it.  And that epiphany is;You can apply the exact same observation to economics.As I've aged and become more experienced, I start to realize just how much of a fraudulent study economics is.  Not because economics isn't important.  Not because there isn't some serious important issues that economics addresses.  It's not even that the secret to riches for all does lay within economics (it does and it is what ultimately drives my eternal passion for economics).  But rather how the field's self-proclaimed experts have turned it into nothing more than self-serving political bunk.  It is no longer simply about the "efficient allocation of resources" or "maximizing the wealth of people" but rather idiotic concepts like the Phillips Curve, running advanced (and ultimately flawed) economic models, fretting about things like the liquidity trap, drawing idiotic foursquare games for "prisoner theory," and the hundreds of other temporary and fleeting relationships that have been observed in the past 60 years that the economist academians trump out and treat it as if it were a real science when in reality it is a constantly changing art as it is human psychology that underpins it all.And thus my case for "reversing the economic argument."I tried to read a paper by Paul Krugman once, and while he no doubt probably adhered to Keynesian theory to the letter, in the end none of it made sense and my mind started to wander.  Not only because it was boring, but because experience has told me something that complex would ultimately be debunked by Occam's Razor.  I don't care how many charts he threw up, I don't care what latest version of "Ricardian Equivalence" he was using, let alone the empirical data to prove it, in the end if you step back and look at it, it was nothing more than a pastor using the bible to further confirm Christianity.  In otherwords, economics has becomes so focused on itself as a study, has put on such horse-blinders, its clergy has lost sight of its original and more important goal and now study it for its own sake.Therefore, if you truly want to understand (or disprove some things about) economics, I argue going backwards.  I argue going outside the study.  I argue applying some basic, simple logic and factual testing to see if this increasingly complex "field" even makes sense anymore or is merely a circle jerk for wanna-be mathematicians just like religion is for most clergymen.For example, a simple question I have, is WWII the only data point the Keynesianism can point to in history where it worked?  And if so, why the hell did we base the entire western world's governance and economic policies on something so ill-tested?Another, precisely whose brilliant idea was it that government should intervene period?  Who precisely died and made you economic king giving you authority to "provide incentives" or "boost demand curves?"  Since when was it the government's and politician's responsibility to MANAGE people? (I'll tell you who.  One sick, power-hungry, totalitarian, that's who).And though I am certainly very political, shouldn't we be concerned when the likes of Krugman call Republicans racist or we start claiming that 100% purely politically moves such as "diversity" have some kind of inherent value?  i.e. - why is politics allowed to enter, let alone corrupt economists and their views?I could go on, but these simple questions are identical to the basic, logical questions we need to ask (but aren't allowed to) of religion.First, where's your proof of god?  Oh, you don't have any?  Then why with the threatening of little children with hell?Second, explain to me the guy on the plank of wood and the snake in Suzie Jone's desk?Third, did Adam have a belly button?And fourth, how is stealing money from productive people and giving it to parasitic people a "winning" long term and sustainable economic strategy?In the end, if you reverse the economic argument you'll see our modern day economists are no different than those "idiot" clergymen they mock for having equally idiotic, fanciful, and self-serving beliefs. 
Why Defaulting on the US National Debt Would Be Moral 
To simplify my banking career, my primary job was assessing the likelihood and probability that people we lent money out to would pay us back.  Of course this was a pointless task because management and bankers were paid by commission so they really didn't care about the quality of the borrower, just that the loan got approved and they got their commission.  This, naturally, led to me ramming heads with management (where I would almost always lose), but on a macro-economic scale also led up to the housing bubble and subsequent crash and Great Recession.However, in my pursuit to find genuine, real silver linings to our current economic state, it didn't dawn on me until very recently that my experiences in banking also provided the 100%legitimatesincereunbiasedlogicalrationale to default entirely and completely on the US national debt.Permit me to explain.While most of us would put the blame of our financial woes on the idiots who couldn't do 3rd grade math and borrowed way more than they could afford, it has to be pointed out that there were idiots that lent to such morons in the first place.  There will ALWAYS be math impaired entitled lazy cry-babies thinking they deserve a McMansion and a luxury car.  It's whether there are saner heads in the banking industry that would lend to these idiots.  This is called "due diligence" and was primarily my job back in my banking days.  Thus, while we certainly (and rightly) place blame on the idiots who borrowed more than they could afford, we must also place blame on the banks who were so stupid to lend to these idiots in the first place as well.Here were have no argument from any side of any political aisle.  Everybody was against the bankster bailouts.  Everybody hates the banking industry and those that populate it.  And nearly everybody agrees that the banks should have taken their losses, never gotten bailed out, gone belly up and died never to be seen again.So, riddle me this, riddle me that, why do we hate the bankers so much, but love our nation's creditors to the point we still concern ourselves with paying them back?Understand they are one and the same AND they made the exact same mistakes.Bankers lent money to people who couldn't afford to pay it back.Lenders to the US government lent money to a government who couldn't afford to pay it back.Bankers failed to do due diligence on the borrowers it was lending money to.Lenders to the US government failed to do due diligence on the borrowers it was lending money to.Bankers created a bubble that inevitably crushed the US economyLenders to the US government have DEFINITELY created a bubble that will DEFINITELY crush the US economy.If that doesn't convince you, let's view lending to the US government much in the same terms as bankers view or analyze lending to regular banking clients.First, who are these idiots lending to?Well, the US government or the "American people."  But I think a better personification of this would be our chief representative to the world, Barack Obama.Obama has never worked a real job in his life.  He has been an academia, a spoiled brat with his grandma paying for everything, who immediately went into politics and because of his youth, looks, and race won the lottery in the democrat primary to be president. His political platform has been to bribe voters with money that he borrows, while seeding envy and hatred against the only assets in the US that have the capacity to pay us back (entrepreneurs, hard workers, corporations, private sector, etc.) But again, it is not so much Barack Obama US creditors are lending to, but the people who put such an idiot in office.  He is merely a proxy to the caliber and character of the country as a whole, and that country seemingly has no intention of paying anybody back, let alone concerning itself with government finances.Second, what is the money being invested in? Understand that banks don't just "lend out money for shits and giggles."  The proceeds of the loan must be invested in some kind of asset or business that generates an income.  AND NOT JUST AN INCOME, but MORE INCOME THAT WHAT IS BEING CHARGED IN INTEREST.  However, this is entirely a moot point because the proceeds of the loans lent to the US government do not go into ANYTHING even remotely resembling an investment.1.  70% of government spending is income transfers, which is nothing more than bribes to the parasitic class to vote for democrats. 2.  What money does make it to "education" is wasted on indoctrinating youth into socialism and not providing them the skills and jobs they need to support themselves, let alone work up the excess cash to pay back the national debt.  Worse still children are so removed from labor market realities they'll blow a trillion in federal tax dollars getting masters degrees in egos and hobbies before considered a trade.3.  Health care spending is, sadly, but factual, mostly spent on people who will never work again and are just going to die soon (so again, mathematically just throwing money in a hole).4.  Wars, no matter how called for, usually are not profitable for either side.  Even if the US went into the mid east "for oil," they've done a spectacularly bad job of profiting off of it.In short, I'd rather lend to a cancer-ridden, faux 55 year old "DudeBro" "businessman" whose Beemer is leased, his house mortgaged to the hilt, and who has a trophy wife with a horse hobby farm that wants to start a bar, because at least a BAR is somekind of an investment.Welfare bums, single moms, dying old people, tanks, and socialist indoctrination camps are NOT investments.Third, how are we getting paid back?You're not!  Any basic financial analysis of the government's finances already tells you it is loth to run a surplus.  And, once again looking at the caliber of the people in charge of the government, they have no intention of voting in fiscally conservative and astute people into office.  The American people are no different than the spoiled suburbanite children and trophy wives of the beleaguered and insolvent failing "businessman" who desperately comes to the bank, begging and pleasing to be lent more money so he can keep the facade up for another 6 months.Since repayment is not an option, banks naturally then look at the repossession of the collateral.Fourth, what do they have for collateral?Creditors to the US government have "the full backing and faith of the US government" for its collateral.Translated into English?"Nothing."There is no collateral.And the reason there is no collateral is because if any creditor dared tried to repossess say a piece of land or some islands or some other form of US assets a la "South Beach Tow" the full might and strength of the US military would come crushing down on it.In other words, simplifying it a lot, people who lent money to the US government were just as spectacularly stupid and naive and negligent in their lack of due diligence that they fully deserve the US government to default on it and never pay them back. The Chinese and foreign creditors?  You were just as dumb lending money to an Obama America as you were building all those ghost towns and ghost malls that populate your landscape.Pension funds, mutual funds and 401k plans?  You were just as dumb lending money to Americans as you were actually believing social security was a great way to retire.And even you parents who thought "teaching your little children about interest" by having them invest in a Series EE bond, are going to instead teach them a much more advanced economic lesson on government bond defaults.My simple economic take on this is why not make it easy?  Simply acknowledge the emperor has no clothes, default on it now and be done with this once and for all.  Creditors to the US government will get what their ignorance deserves, and we'll all be free of the national debt...that is until you idiot creditors lend this country of spoiled, entitled brats more money and start the whole cycle over again. 
Why the Death of Small Town America is a Good Thing 
My travels and adventures largely circle around mountain climbing and hiking.  This means I must traverse the great expanses of the great plains, inching my way to the Rockies and the thousands of miles of geologic beauty that lay to the west.  Aside from Denver and Salt Lake City, there are very few large metropolitan areas so the majority of time you're either crashing at a hotel or getting gas it's in a small "traditional" American town. Unconsciously, this meant I was not just pursuing the latest greatest hike, but conducting a near-10 year study on small town America and its corresponding economy.  At first my observations were simple ones, primarily noting, even ruing, the demise of these small towns.  You typically have a "main street" where old buildings from the 1880's to 1920's have the date they were built etched into the headstone.  Their architecture is beautiful, usually brick or stone and it doesn't take much imagination to see what a bustling town it was over a century ago.  But by my last back-of-napkin estimation nearly 70% of these gorgeous buildings are empty or up for rent.  And the towns I revisit because they're on common throughways I use, you can usually bet at least 20% of the buildings that were occupied have switched tenants.  It's a sad sight to see, a quaint little town that was once a genuine, tight-knit bustling community, now approaching ghost town status, but in the demise of these small towns there is hope as it is a testament to genuine progress in America, as well as a lesson for our economic future.The first thing to realize about small towns is that they were largely built based on an agricultural economy.  There were enough farmers and ranchers in a certain area that there was enough economic demand for a town that provided wares, equipment, machinery, banking, etc. (notice how a lot of small towns, though decimated, still have a John Deere dealer?).  However, as time went on and technology advanced farming techniques become multiples more efficient, not only increasing yields, but requiring a lot less labor.Overall this is a good thing for the country.  Food becomes cheaper, the bane of hunger and starvation that plagued human kind since 200,000 BC is defeated, and farmers don't have to toil as much as they used to in the mule and ox days.  However, the town itself suffered.  With farmer Joe able to do thrice the work with 1/10th the labor, demand for labor fell and with it the population of these small towns.  Couple that with transportation technology and the managerial efficiency of large retail stores (Wal-Mart, Costco, etc.), not only was your population decreasing, but the local hardware store, grocery and butcher were no longer needed.  Thus why those beautiful buildings sit empty in small town America, and anybody born there usually leaves for the city.While we may lament this natural horse-replaced-by-car death of small town America, there was another thing I noticed about these small towns.  The businesses that WERE in business and replacing the grocer, the butcher, the mechanic, etc., were a testament to how these advances in technology, farming methods, and other general improvements in economic efficiency were making the lives of everybody easier.  People were no longer running hard businesses like "butchering animals" or "repairing tractors," but "fun" businesses like opening a coffee shop, an art store, or (my favorite) the small town dive bar.I didn't fully connect the dots until I started taking pictures of the various small town bars I was visiting as kind of a hobby.  But the more time I had on the road to sit and think it through, the more I realized that technological advances were making it so people in these towns today could live more leisurely and enjoyable lives than their ancestors did 100 years ago.  And that the empty brick buildings on main street that were being replaced with antique stores, bars, and restaurants was a good thing and not a bad thing.There is just one "thing," however.  And that is what this trend in small town America portends for the rest of the country.  And most Americans are not going to like it as it directly addresses and destroys what they hold most dear - their egos.Realize that what is ultimately driving this change in small towns is the replacement of labor with machines.  I've addressed this before in a post about the Roboticized Economy, where more and more humans are rendered obsolete as they are essentially replaced by robots.  On the face of it this seems like a great thing.  Robots doing all the work, humans just kicking back doing nothing.  It's so utopian it has inexperienced, leftist academian morons orgasming over their latest half-baked idea of a "minimum guaranteed income."  But there's a problem with this new economy.  While it may feed the human stomach, it won't feed the human ego. And people, especially Americans, value their egos above all else.Realize this new REAL WORLD economy and what the latest generation has been brought up to believe about itself are like two runaway trains heading towards a horrific collision.   Because of technology the new economy does not need unskilled, untalented human labor.  It needs technicians, engineers, programmers, doctors and all related professions that go into supporting the increasingly-roboticized economy.  However, kids today are increasingly brought up to believe the world bends to their wills and desires. That they can "follow their heart and the money will follow."  So they major in the most worthless and un-intellectually-challenging subjects.  And upon graduation when their skills (or lack thereof) do not match up with what is in demand in this new economy, they sit their, their dreams destroyed, unemployed and with a crippling level of debt.  They may have been a runaway freight train, but the real world economy was a much strong, faster, and powerful one. Naturally, this does not sit well with a generation brought up to be the most spoiled and entitled of them all.  They protest, they demand student loan forgiveness, they demand other people's money, anything and everything, whatever it takes, they demand their pound of flesh because they've been brought up to believe they're entitled.But understand the real reason for their anger.While the real world economy demands doctors, engineers, specialists, programmers, etc., to keep this roboticized economy going, and all these people work hard, attend school, and study rigorous subjects to make this technological miracle reality (AND make it so NONE of the talentless people go starving or without shelter) this new economy still has SOME demand for unskilled labor.  However, since technology has advanced so much (and will continue to do so) the jobs that remain for the unskilled/overeducated class are deemed "insulting."BarristasFood serviceNanny/baby sittingEtc.And given the overeducated mindset of today's latest labor market entrants it's like slapping them in the face.  They have no real skills.  They have no real achievements.  The only thing they "have" is their education.  And in refusing to hire them for jobs they think they're entitled to, but rather give them the only jobs they're qualified for, you insulted the only thing they have in their lives - their worthless educations.This is why I don't mind seeing the local coffee store, art store, antique store or dive bar taking over beautiful small town America.  Those people actually get it.  They don't know how to program a tractor to self-reap a 100 acre field.  They don't know how to repair a diesel engine on a John Deere.  And they don't know how to route a computer network for the local feed lot.  But they can pour a decent beer, cook a quality stew, and provide decent customer service. The question is whether the vast majority Americans today have the intellectual temerity and honesty to realize and accept the same thing.  That their "Masters in English" is not of any value, that they have no sought after skill, and that their future is not one of greatness or participation in the cutting edge of economic development, but rather one of customer or "vanity" services servicing other humans.  And if they don't like that, then they need to let go of the ego, work harder and go into fields where they will be in demand.Of course that would require a genuine work effort, a passion for rigor, and...dare I say it...math.But wait, let me guess.  "You're just not good at math?"I'll have fries with that.  
How American Women Could Pay Off the National Debt in 5 Years 
I am happy to announce I have found a simple, easy and painless solution to our national debt problem.  Easily the largest economic problem we face is officially over.  Everybody can relax, the US and by extension the world economy will be saved and, frankly, we can look forward to very bright economic futures across the globe.  And it will be women who lead the way into this glorious future no less!I happened upon this solution walking through the mall and realized that nearly all of the stores are for women.  I fused this observation with the fact women spend the majority of their money on things that arereallytrulyjust not needed.So instead of blowing their money on Jimmy Choo shoes, hand bags, flirtinis and the cornucopia of other worthless trinkets they like to stockpile in their unnecessarily large apartments, we force them instead to cut checks to Uncle Sam that would immediately go to debt reduction.Looking at consumer spending data from the BEA I estimate that women waste around $3.2 trillion annually (estimates will of course vary).  Dividing the current $17 trillion in debt by this means we could have the national debt paid off in a mere five years.  But better yet, it's without any genuine suffering or real decrease in standards of living.Naturally there will be some resistance to this brilliant economic plan.  However, since women disproportionately vote for democrats and to "help others," I'm sure they'll find it within their charitable nature to "do the right thing" and help save America's future for the children. What's funny is this REALLY would work.  And it really would be painless.  Sadly, that frivolous spending is just too addicting and women place more value on competing against other women than the country's finances.Oh well, Enjoy the decline!  
Another Leftist Lie About the 1950's 
As you all know the 1950's by every technology and inflation adjusted measure was not only better for everybody, but was hands down the pinnacle of US achievement and capitalism.Because of this the left does its best to rewrite history, besmirch it, criminalize it, villainize it, and (as if it's not the most tiresome and broken record in their playbook) is remind us just how sexist and racist it was.  The 1940's and 1950's just simply cannot exist accurately in the history books for it is everything that the left hates and the most compelling and damning empirical data that proves socialism wrong.Because of this I like to bring up the 50's occasionally, citing data and statistics and presenting logical, unemotional arguments as to why it was indeed the best decade in US history.  And today's leftist argument we're going to debunk is;"Oh yeah!??  Well...umm....you know what...the WORLD WAS DESTROYED after WWII and the US was the ONLY country left to build stuff for them.  That's the only reason the 50's had such great economic growth.  It wasn't capitalism!  It was because the world was our bitch!  So..umm...yeah, so there!"So young lieutenants, economists, Cappy Cappites, and book babes, let us do what the left refuses to and look at the actual data.To see whether or not the true cause of the booming economic growth in the 50's was due to the rest of the world being destroyed, I decided to look at exports as a percentage of GDP.  To be honest, I truthfully thought there was "some" credibility to the left's claim, and so I was more than willing to adjust US economic growth to account for exports.  However, after pulling the data, I realized I didn't have to bother:Exports as a percentage of GDP have actually GONE UP SINCE WWII.

Yes, during 1947 exports were at a relative high, but after a 2 decade decline and stagnation, exports have consistently been going up since the 1970's.  Keep in mind a lot of this has to do with services (which were not as prominent in international trade as today), but the argument that the whole world was "just destroyed" and was helplessly dependent upon US exports which explained the booming economic growth we enjoyed in the 50's is just a lie.  And if we consider exports are nearly TWICE the percent they were back in the 50's, it's actually a damning testimony against the creeping socialism we've had since the 1960's (as well as American spending habits that we IMPORT even MORE resulting in a trade deficit).The primary lesson to take from this though, ladies and gentlemen, is that you can almost always assume the left has never bothered to look up the "facts" they spew.  You, sadly, just have to assume whatever they say is either intentionally or unknowningly false and be willing to spend the 5 minutes to look up the actual data.   
 
What Corporate Taxes REALLY Are in the US 
As you know I tire of debating with people who are not only uninformed, but ideologues who have no problems lying in order to advance their cause.  This is one of the reasons I no longer listen to the news, and instead pull data as my primary source of information and opinion forming.  One such debate was the issue of "what corporations really pay in taxes."The right screams bloody murder pointing at the stated corporate tax rate of 40%.The left screams "loopholes," talks about GE and Google's 0% tax rate, and then claim the "effective tax rate" is 12%.I know both sides of the argument, and know what is the correct approach to it:"You shouldn't even have a corporate tax you idiots.  You want jobs.  You want to attract investors.  Get rid of this cancer that is holding the US back from its full potential."Regardless of philosophical arguments about whether there should even be a corporate tax, I decided to look up once and for all the REAL corporate tax rate.  I'm not listening to the right fretting over the statutory 40% rate.  And I'm CERTAINLY NOT listening to some bogus academian study made of whole cloth by biased socialists "professors."  I simply took "Corporate Profits BEFORE Taxes," subtracted "Corporate Profits AFTER Taxes," divided it by the former and calculated the REAL AND TRUTHFUL tax rate the US has had since 1929.Got it?Before taxes.  After taxes.  Subtract and divide."I get the disks, you drop Walsh."So here it is ladies and gentlemen.
So that's it.  That's what all the hubbub is about.  The current effective tax rate is about 22% and has been trending down since the 1930's.Naturally the left (if they ever read this blog) would seize on this claiming that corporate taxes in the glorious 50's was around 41% and we were booming then.  And naturally the right will seize on this saying 22% is more than the 0% leftists would like everything to think corporations pay.But I'm going to try to introduce some reality into the situation as to why corporate taxes have been going down so that we MIGHT actually leave a better economy to our future;Foreign competition.And we're not talking about foreign competition from manufacturing or other economic competitors.  We're talking about competition from other governments.  Specifically, governments are competing for investors and corporations as they ALL lower their corporate taxes to lure them.
This is why you have Burger King merging with Tim Horton's.  This is why you have Medtronic leaving for Ireland.  This is why corporations have trillions parked overseas in Bermuda, the Caymans, Singapore and elsewhere.  Because there ARE greener pastures.I'm not going to call for the argument that the US eliminate its corporate taxes forever.  It will fall on deaf ears of the left that are either too lazy to think this through or are too wedded to their ideology to have an independent thought or intellectual honesty.  It is also an argument that doesn't need to be preached to the right-wing choir.I will point out however a rare phenomenon that you won't see very often - governments competing.In this one rare instance, governments are acting like private sector companies and actually serving their customers well.  Governments want money, they want a tax base, they want a booming economy and some of them are waking up to what Hong Kong and Singapore woke up to nearly 50 years ago.  MAKE IT ATTRACTIVE FOR INVESTORS TO MOVE AND INVEST THERE.  Because of this some companies are scoring jobs.  And not just "jobs," higher paying white collar jobs that typically come with relocating a headquarters there.  This, like free markets always do, benefits the customers.  The customers of which are the citizens of the countries lowering corporate taxes.This is not complicated, complex, high end economics.This is simple 3rd grade logic.And the fact the left in this country is blinded with envy and hate of "corporations" to the point they can't see the benefits of getting rid of corporate taxes means half the population we're dealing with are not as smart as 3rd graders. 
Dear China, Here's Where Your Money Went 
In a previous post I calculated the statistical causes of the US federal deficit and debt.  It was to answer the debate, once and for all, whether it was military spending or social spending that was the primary cause of our financial woes.  When the statistics were tallied it turned out nearly 2/3rds of the deficit/debt was caused by social spending and only 25% military spending.However, while this addresses the budgetary issues facing the country (which will be summarily ignored), it does nothing to address the counterparty to this deficit spending.  Namely, our creditors. Specifically China.The whole idea of "lending" money is that you do so expecting to not only get your principal back, but some interest income as well.  And the way your debtor will pay you back is by taking the proceeds from the loan and investing it in a venture that will generate a rate of return in excess of the interest rate being charged.However, let's focus on the key word of that sentence - "invest."To sane people or people who care about getting their money back the quality of the loan is based on the quality of the investment that money is used to finance.  Therefore it behooves the lender to analyze where the proceeds of the loan are going to go.  This was my primary job during my 15 year tenure in banking.  My job was to take loan applications, analyze their creditworthiness and determine whether they proceeds would not only be invested wisely, but generate a rate of return that would satisfy the debt obligations.Out of the thousands of loans I analyzed a majority of them were bad investments.  Another real-estate development in an already-oversaturated market.  A loan to my boss' buddies with no collateral.  Sports bars for ex-jocks going through midlife crises.  And horse hobby farms for the trophy wives of insolvent faux "businessmen."  There was even the famous "cereal bar" where our money would be used to purchase milk (which does not make a good form of collateral).  But out of all these horrendous and idiotic investments, they are nowhere near as bad as the US government bonds you Chinese got suckered into buying.  And the reason is simple:The majority of the money you lent us was not invested.  It was merely pissed away.Consider a statistical break down of where your money was "invested" here in the US.The Military 26%
One of the largest components of the US budget, your money was used to buy weapons and pay soldiers.  Sadly, the military is not an investment.  Matter of fact, it's quite the opposite.  The military is PURPOSELY designed to destroy things.  Not build them.  You will not get a return on your investment from the US military.Social Security/Medicare 33% combinedThe reason I combined these two is because of the delicious irony of how your money was "invested."  Social Security is paid to people who are retired or are disabled.  In other words, they don't work.  You are merely paying these people to live with no expectation of a return on your investment.  Worse still (and doubly ironic) is Medicare is basically paying to keep old people alive who are about to die anyway.  Instead of investing in the "youth" who might have the capacity to earn the money to pay you back, you are investing in old people who not only DON'T work, but will die soon.Income Security 16%
Oh, you know how I said if you invested in the youth you'd at least stand a shot at getting some modicum of return on your investment?  Yeah, well there are some young people out there who could work, but they're lazy and just don't want to.  That or they so spectacularly screwed up their lives by having children they can't afford or some other such life-destroying move that they're too pre-occupied living off of others to be concerned about paying you back.  Besides, this is the dumbest segment of our society and they frankly probably don't know the different between China and Japan.Health 9%
Remember those lazy people I was telling you about?  Yeah, the ones that don't work?  Well they tend to have children at higher rates than their responsible citizen counterparts, and so they need health care.  You could make the argument that these kids will grow up and maybe get jobs, thereby giving you a slim hope you might recoup a fraction of your investment, but a visit to one of our fine trailer parks, ghettos or barrios will show you the cycle of poverty these unfortunate children are condemned to.Education 4%









You may have your final hopes pinned on that a small percentage (4%) of your money went into education and training.  This should make people more productive, get them higher paying jobs, and thus provide the tax base to finally pay you guys back.Sadly, your hopes are misplaced, because unlike our Chinese and Asian counterparts, the majority of American education does NOT go to productive endeavors, but worthless frivolous ones, specifically the humanities and liberal arts.  The result is not only an industry that indoctrinates our youth into socialism and sloth, but gives them no real practical skills that will help generate economic growth.  You won't get your money back here, but at least Tina the Suburbanite Princess got her Masters in Transgendered 13th Century Sculpture Fairy Studies.  Thanks hard working Chinese people!We could go on, but that accounts for nearly all of the money you've lent us.  And as you noticed none of these things even come close to "investments."The sad truth is that America did not "invest" the money you lent us. It bribed.  It bribed our parasitic class to vote for democrat politicians, keeping them in power and preventing them from having to work real jobs (perhaps you are aware of our president's complete lack of real-world work?)  Oh sure, our leftist politicians say they're "investing," but that is nothing more than a co-opted word used to hide their true intentions.The issue is what are you going to do about it?  I personally am shocked China, let alone anybody in the world lends the US government (and by association) our parasitic class money.  What is literally happening is we are essentially enslaving hundreds of millions of Chinese.  We have you work the menial jobs Americans are too lazy to work themselves, while stealing borrowing money to pay for those goods and services.  Thus the welfare mother doesn't work, but she still gets Chang at the Samsung plant to build her a nice new smart phone, bought and paid for with money you gave her via the US federal government.What the Chinese people and its government have to understand is that it is unlikely you will ever be paid back the money you lent us.  Not because the US government chooses not to pay you back, but because the population of the US is decaying and declining to the point they are incapable of working up the economic growth to pay you back.  I can only hope (and grant permission to anybody who wants to) to translate this into Cantonese and/or Mandarin, and would love to hear arguments why the Chinese people are making such a horrible investment. 
The Deflationary Spiral is a Lie 
Rick Newman at Yahoo *COUGH COUGH WHEEZE WHEEZE* "News" wrote a piece recently about the horrors and catastrophes of "deflation."Yes, this economic scourge is so dangerous, so devastating that people unfortunate enough to experience it suffer:Higher standards of livingAn increase in the value of their moneyIncreased purchasing poweranda stable currencySarcasm aside, you don't need to be an economist to figure out that the "deflationary spiral" is a Keynesian canard because the WHOLE POINT OF ECONOMICS AND SOCIETAL ADVANCEMENT IS TO MAKE THINGS CHEAPER!  It's the SOLE PURPOSE of economics.  Increasing standards of living through efficiency.  So already you know when somebody warns about the "horrors" of "deflation," you know they're either1.  An ignorant journalist who doesn't know jack about economics or2.  A politician or political operative trying to dupe you(Mr. Newman is the first, despite his degree in economics, which was no doubt dripping with Keynesianism)However, this simple logic to find out if believers in the Deflationary Spiral are devils or dupes, does not expressly explain or disprove their claims.  That claim being that deflation lowers demand by delaying purchases as people "know" prices are going down and simply postpone those purchases indefinitely into the future.  And while it may seem logical on the face of it, that's all it is - logical.  Not empirical.First, in order to believe the Deflationary Spiral exists you have to believe that Americans are financially conscious and savvy enough to know about prices, inflation, etc.ARE YOU KIDDING ME?????The average American doesn't even know who's in congress or where Canada is, let alone what the CPI is doing!!!!  They are so stupid and so doped up on bread and circus BS that the last thing they're doing is reading Federal Reserve minutes.  They are the most economically ignorant population in the history of humanity (but they're experts in the Kardashians and ESPN post game shows).Second, since the average American is clueless about finances and economics, they spend money like...well...Americans.  They save practically nothing,
and (despite enormous debt forgiveness during the financial crisis) have managed to rack up cumulative household debt back above 100% GDP.Third, Americans lack the capacity for delayed gratification.  In the now now now me me me mine mine mine society, nobody is conscious, let alone psychologically capable of budgeting, conserving or postponing purchases.And finally, women.  (Yes, sorry, we're going there, because it's germane and true).  Depending on what statistics you want to use, women account for anywhere between 55-80% of all household purchases.  And most of them are on worthless and unneeded trinkets and crap.  I have NEVER, EVER heard a woman utter "deflationary spiral" because it has never occurred to a newly wed wife to postpone purchases of curtains for her new home, a power tripping NYC marketing executive to postpone purchases of her Pravda shoes, or a naive and clueless college student to postpone the purchase of her $200,000 "Masters in Latina Transgendered Anthropologic Poetry Unicorn Studies."But the ultimate argument against the Deflationary Spiral is simply one of empircism.It does not exist.While I know economists, journalists, politicians, and everyday sheeple just like to repeat things they heard in college or the news, it doesn't make them true.  And if you look at spending versus inflation, THERE IS NO RELATIONSHIP.This chart shows the velocity of money (the rate at which a dollar is spent and re-spent, indicating demand).  It is juxtaposed against inflation.  To the untrained eye you might be tempted to detect a pattern or relationship between the two, and according to the Deflationary Spiral believers as prices go down you should see a decrease in the velocity of money.

However, THERE IS NO RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE TWO.  When correlated against one another the correlation coefficient is -.04, meaning no relationship at all.
Naturally, I don't expect my little blog here, let alone this little post to correct the thousands of erroneous pages in economic textbooks.  I don't expect this FACT to change politicians' or journalists' thinking (or incentives).  And I doubt that anybody at the Federal Reserve will remove their lips from Keynes' dead ass long enough to consider this data.  But I do expect my readers and anybody who really cares about politics and economics to know the Deflationary Spiral just doesn't exist.  And that the next time you hear somebody trying to "scare-tactic" you using the "Deflationary Spiral" to know it's a calculated political move to allow for more government debt and printing of money.  
The Real, Statistical, Factual Causes of the US Deficit and Debt 
A very common and very KEY argument I came across when debating the left is the true and underlying causes of the national deficit, and by consequence, national debt.  Those of us on the right claim it is excessive social spending, those on the left insist it is military spending.  After studying the budget and public finances tangentially, I intuitively knew it had to be social spending.  BUT, I did not know for a fact.  And so I decided to spend my coffee session pulling data from the White House's federal budget data and FRED database to find out, once and for all, what are the true causes of our national deficit/debt.The issue is not as straight forward as one might thing.  For example, how far back do we go?  1790?  Post WWII?  What percentage of today's debt is caused by which years of deficit the government has run.  In the best efforts of intellectual honesty I looked at the historical "deficits as a percentage of GDP" aiming to find when we started running chronic and serious budget deficits.  I also went post WWII because of the obvious warping effects a global war has on budgets.  And I also chose post WWII because adjusting for inflation and population growth (ie - the majority of today's debt was caused by more recent society, not the 10 million people that lived here 200 years ago).This resulted in a starting point of 1971.  If you look at deficits as a percentage of GDP it was 1971 that start not only chronic, but significant deficits (and it is here, no doubt, leftists will focus their arguments because the math henceforth is unassailable).However, before we move forward it is imperative that I issue a trigger warning for any socialists, leftists or democrats reading this.  The following information is factual, math based, and real.  I know these things cause great stress, emotional harm, and psychological damage to leftsits, not to mention are insulting to the leftist community.  If you could have your government-paid therapist or counselor on speed dial, that may help before continuing reading through this article.So here is the basic data.  The sum of all government spending, by general department from 1971 to 2014, along with their corresponding percentages.
You'll note standard battle lines to be drawn as libertarians and conservatives cite Social Security as being larger than Military spending.  You'll also note the left immediately (and predictably) pointing out "Veterans Affairs" is not included in military spending.  However, the above data needs to be simplified as there are multiple accounts across the general two categories that are being debated as to the cause of our chronic deficits and debt - Military spending and Social spending.  I simplified this chart into four categories.1.  Social spending2.  Military spend3.  Governance (which is appallingly low) and4. "Other" (where it wasn't governance, social spending, or military.  Namely space agency)The results confirm what nearly 2 decades of research and common sense would tell you - social spending is by far to blame for the deficits and debt we have today.
But before leftists now scramble to find an excuse (or call their therapist) to explain this reality away, let's us hold on before taking that step and address a tangential issue to this debate that may solve it for both sides - psychology.You see, in the early days of this blog (and my career) I naively spend hours, if not months, crunching numbers, calculating statistics, and doing so in an intellectually honest manner because I truthfully was concerned about what was truth.  I did not want to have an ideology or a political position and then "force" data to fit my preferences.  I wanted the facts and data to form my political ideology.  However, when presenting data, such as the above, to those on the left, no matter how right it was, no matter how solid and unbiased my ideology, and no matter how apolitical the data was, people on the left simply refused to believe it.It soon dawned on me the true debate between right and left is not one of facts, data, statistics or reality, but one of psychology.  The left is delusional and puts their religion above all else, including reality.Therefore, let us cut to the chase.  I know I just wasted the past hour crunching numbers, making charts, and uploading them here.  I know this is going to be as effective as DayQuil on cancer.  So my question to the left is NOT "will you please finally admit you were wrong."  It's going to be;"Please humor me and entertain me with the mentally ill and cognitive dissonance acrobatics your going to use to explain away this one.  I always get a kick out of watching mentally damaged people ignore reality." 
 
How QE Money Ends Up in the Stock Market 
Sometimes I like to connect the dots for my readers or for those of you who "know" something is happening, but don't know precisely how.  So today we'll be looking at how QE money ends up in the stock market, thereby increasing PE ratios and making nothing worth buying!So the first step is where the federal reserve is faced with the fact that Keynesian stimulus is failing, specifically monetary policy only affects inflation and prices and not real economic growth.  Egos and heads explode at the fed because they're "economic geniuses" so they can't be wrong!  So they lie to themselves and say they just "didn't do enough of it" and go onto fire up the printing presses.But what to do with the money?  They don't want to cause "inflation" but they still want to "boost the economy."  So what they do is buy US treasury bonds, sometimes directly from the US treasury, but other times from banks and other financial institutions that are looking to get rid of that paper.  But it's not just US treasuries they sell to the sucker fed.  They unload their crappy junk mortgage backed securities to the fed, as well as their overprice stocks.

The proceeds of these purchases go into the coffers of the commercial bank and other financial institutions that sold those worthless pieces of paper securities to the fed.  And what do they do with these hundreds of billions of dollars?Why they invest it in the stock market!And yes, it really is that simple junior, deputy, aspiring, official and otherwise economists!Of course the increase in stock prices is not considered "real inflation" because...well...fed economists said so.  So you go right ahead and max out your 401k contribution buying overpriced stocks with a PE of 27 and a dividend yield of 2%!  It's patriotic! 
Europe's Standards of Living Are Overstated...Especially for American Bachelors 
I had meant to write more economics pieces during and post my European trip.  Then Asshole Consulting took off, I had to winterize my house in anticipation of the Minnesota winter, and now it's the holiday season.  It wasn't through anything but sheer luck I have a glimpse of time at this moment and I fully intend on using it to write about my most important observation about Europe - that it's standards of living are overstated, and especially so for bachelors.Admittedly, I did not travel all of Europe.  I visited Switzerland, Italy and a bit of France.  But in sampling those three countries (not to mention practically scouring all of Switzerland and Italy) I can say with reasonable confidence in at least those three countries standards of living are overstated.  Of course in the Eastern European Empire of Roosh things may be different, and northern Europe I left untouched, but I believe even the regional differences aside there are some European wide structural differences that not only puts it at a disadvantage compared to the US, but costs its people a lower standard of living.The first and most painfully obvious reason was the cost of food.  I know food does not account for anywhere near a significant percentage of GDP, but since it stimulates one of the five senses and is kind of a "necessity," I was shocked how expensive the food was.In Switzerland a Big Mac (just the burger, not the meal) on average cost $12.  If it cost cheaper somewhere else, I was unaware of it, but I was HONORED to pay "only" $8.50 for a Burger King Big Whopper.  Even that was a "deal" because twice I paid over $120 for dinner for four.  Admittedly once was in Montreaux (and expensive resort town on Lake Geneva), but it was certainly overpriced.Second, and related, was the quality of food.I don't know what idiotic 16 year old suburbanite American girl came up with the lie to make her trip to Europe more exotic than it was, but the food absolutely sucks.  The two times I paid $120+ for dinner the food was on par with gas station food, and not even good gas station food.  Mac and Cheese, a panini sandwich so toasted you'd lose a filling, and with a stingy thin slice of "prosciutto" (which I believe is Italian for "one atom-thick slick of pork").  And I think my girlfriend had the leaf sandwhich with three-eye-droplets of Diet Coke.   If you factor in the quality and quantity of food, Europe probably costs quadruple what it does in the US.Third, gas.Yes, I know gas is more expensive in Europe.  Yes, I am also aware "well, but tuition and health care are free there!"  That does me no good.  Unless you're old or in college, these offsetting social programs don't benefit the majority of people who have to endure it.  But it is not the mere nominal costs of gas that lowers the standards of living as much as it is when you combine it with the fact 1960's highways were built on the towns' 500AD European infrastructure.  So not only do you get to pay more in gas, you get to use more as you meander through indirect highways and clogged city streets that were designed for cattle.Fourth, housing.Unless new construction, the vast majority of housing in Europe is inferior to the US.  This is not an insult to the European peoples or their carpenters as much as it is a result of the majority of their housing being before the US even existed.  A "nice house" is jammed right next to others with roof spines sagging and shared yards.  Every castle I saw looked like a home-owner's fixit nightmare.  And the prices are so high you never own your home as much as just pay the interest on the mortgage.  Simply because the US is/was less densely populated and the majority of its housing stock built with updated technologies, the quality of housing (and thus your living/dwelling experience) is much nicer.Finally, the hotels.I was very much looking forward to finding a quiet, hidden Italian village where I promised myself and girlfriend we would "sit and do nothing."  I just wanted to find a nice hotel next to the ocean and get drunk on vino.Never happened.Not just because to drive from one town to another in Italy will make you so stressed out and weary you can't enjoy a wine, but because the hotels are really not that nice and neither is the wine.  We stayed at great, high end hotels in Stresa, Bellagio, and Florence and NONE OF THEM beat something as average as the Crowne Plaza in Billings, Montana.  Again, some of this has to do with the outdated technologies these "premier" hotels were built with, but the furniture and fixings are literally no better than a Hotel 8.  In short, even their most luxurious hotel in Bellagio (on Lake Como) comes nowhere near the quality and caliber of the Bellagio in Las Vegas.There were many other things, but the point is whether it's something basic as food or luxurious as a hotel on Lake Como, the costs are twice that of the US for goods and services that are a fraction of the quality and quantity.However, shocking and appalling as the costs and economic lower standards of living were, there was one thing that was even more cumbersome and "standards-of-life-dropping."The culture.Not that Europe is "uncultured." It certainly is, and in many regards, more so than the US.  But the European culture is absolutely antithetical to the freedom-loving, American bachelor.Understand that the American bachelor is arguably the freest person in the entire world.  We can get up when we want.  Do what we want.  Eat when we want.  Go when we want.  And go wherever we want.  This isn't to say that in Europe there are Nazi guards at the borders checking your papers, preventing you from enjoying these freedoms, there isn't.  But it is to say the European culture is not conducive to providing the support structure for this level of freedom.And it's maddening.Most obvious is that you do not have the "Freedom to Eat Whenever You Want."Why?Because every freaking store closes down at siesta for 1-2 hours and then permanently for the day around 7PM.  Yes, there probably is one or two places on the continent that might be open till 10PM, but I didn't see them.  The problem this presents, however, to the American bachelor is that he no longer has the luxury of not worrying about when to eat.  After three days without a host the PRIMARY determinant of where we went, what time we left, and what town we'd get a hotel in, was not determined by our traveling desires, but at what time we could get food, specifically diner.You may be laughing, but consider the drop in standard of living this presents to a bachelor.  Time and freedom are the only things that matter.  And if you can get food 24-7, a vital and key necessity is taken care of, allowing you to travel wherever, whenever you want.  However, without 24-7 access to food, you are no longer entitled to 100% of your free time.  Some of it, now needs to be dedicated and thus restricted based on the operating hours of food providers.Closely related to this culture of "close when grandpa goes to bed," is the highway system.  Bachelors like to travel, especially American ones.  And key to this travel is the US interstate system COMBINED WITH gas stations that are not just open, but serving food and other staples of life (toiletries, oil, aspirin, etc.) 24-7.  But without this amazing infrastructure, the concept of taking a midnight road trip on a whim across the country/continent just isn't possible in Europe.  There were times that (despite a much higher density population than Wyoming) I was more worried about running out of gas in Europe than in Wyoming.  Not that there weren't gas stations, but they weren't open.This meant we had to travel knowing full when and where we'd get gas if we were traveling at night.  It also meant buying food before hitting their "highway" system, but having to wait till it was open...but not too late or we'd hit "siesta."  This may sound "whinny" and "complainy," and it is.  But it is still a dramatic drop in the freedom-go-now-don't-worry standard American bachelors are accustomed to.Finally, there are no Wal-Marts, Perkins, or any other large 24-7 facilities where you can buy other wares or food.I remember traveling across the American southwest many years ago and pulling into Alamogordo, New Mexico, where in BRILLIANT and ILLUMINATED glory was a Wal-Mart open and operational at 3AM.  Not only could I buy the food and camping equipment I needed, buta bottle of Jack Danielsan X-Boxammogunsand everything else that can be found in a Wal-Mart.Not only does Europe suffer a dramatically lower standard of living because they have no such thing, but the bachelor particularly so.  The bachelor is not only forced to buy from the same overpriced local village "family stores" families are, but they also have to abide by these companies' restrictive hours of operation.In short, if you go to Europe as an American bachelor prepare for a culture shock.  And not just "oh they wear different clothes or their toilets are funny," or $12 Big Macs.  But for what is going to be a dramatic decrease in your freedom of mobility and the convenience you've grown accustomed to here in the US.  Yes, the US has it's issues, and certainly Europe has it's benefits (somewhere I'm sure), but you will come back infinitely more appreciate of the US, its infrastructure, how it operates 24-7 for its people, and the freedom that allows you to, at the drop of a hat, just get in your car and go.  
"Austerity" - It's Greek to Me! 
Austerity in both the dictionary and in real world economics means cutting government spending so you run a surplus, usually in order to pay down or at least stem ballooning government debts.However, "austerity" has a different meaning to communists, socialists, leftists, democrats and other varied sorts of the same Marxist political spectrum - "bloody murder."Had you been paying attention to Greece (or even some of the lefter leaning parties in the western world) an orchestrated, purposeful, and intentional assault has been made on the word "austerity."  The left (as they like to do with many other words) has targeted the word "austerity" and now intend to redefine it and villainize it so a lemming-like population of sheeple will vote against it, no matter how necessary and required it is.  And so like "anti-biotics" or "emergency heart surgery" or "CPR," the left (at least in Greece) has managed to avoid taking it's much necessary medicine by making the word "austerity" a pejorative.But was what Greece was going through really "austerity?"  Did the government "tighten it's belt," run surpluses, and give a much needed, reality based, come to Jesus meeting, rah-rah pep talk to its citizens about knuckling down, doing their share "so we can get through this and see the dawn of tomorrow?"Ha!Like all leftists you are nearly guaranteed that what comes out of their mouths is 100% false.First, the Greek government came nowhere close to running a surplus.  Deficits as a percentage of GDP are still laughably in double digits which, for normal countries, could indicate they were engaged in a war.

Second, leftists always looking for an excuse will muster their almightiest of mathematics and make the 4th grade level observation that it could have been REVENUES that were decreasing faster than spending.  Really?
Admittedly the chart is missing its past two years (thanks for being on top of that one OECD!), but let's not kid ourselves.  Greek deficits were NOT caused by a revenue problem, they were caused by a spending problem.And finally, as the leftists are against the ropes, painted into a corner by reality and facts, we can reliably predict their next move because it's the same damn move they've always made before.  They're going to blame government spending on the always reliable, always evil "corporate tax breaks," "military spending," and "give aways for the rich."However, unfortunately this is not America, and (as is always the case with leftists) it's not true.  The Greek budget (which is actually quite difficult to come by) shows what those of us who insist on being informed already know.  The majority of the spending binge went to darlings of leftist spending.The budget is rather lengthy and detailed, but if you look at table 3.18 you'll notice three things.1.  If you add up all the leftist/socialist/social programs, for 2014 they add up to 66 out of the 88 billion Euro budget.  This is roughly 75% of the budget.  Not "defense spending."  Not "money to rich people."  Leftist, socialist programs are the primary cause of the country's financial woes.2.  There are some issues with the "general state expenditure," since it accounts for 37 billion Euro.  But since the states do not have defense, etc., I am assuming the majority of that money as well goes to leftist social programs.3.  Government employees.  Even if you don't look at the functional purposes of each budgetary group, each group has a shockingly high percentage of their expenses going to "salaries and pension."  Indicating AGAIN a leftist, socialist preference to overpay government employees.In the end, I am fully aware that none of these charts is going to convince a single leftist, let alone the professional activist parasite who's avoided a real job all his life (like our president) who is now the Prime Minister of Greece.  But that is not the point of this post.It is to point out that these people are delusional.  They literally have a mental problem and that is the inability to live in the real world.  However, unlike other instances where there is a working class or a productive class to bail them out, thereby keeping the delusion up, Greece does not have that.  It is at the mercy of the EU.  And this will be one of the first (of what I predict to be several more) instances where socialists and leftists will be told "no" and for the first time in their lives face the economic reality that you can't have a society of "professional activists," "teachers," "professors," "government workers," and other parasites because in the end they produce absolutely nothing of real economic value.And we, my friends, are going to have a front row seat to watch these communists explode with cognitive dissonance.  
Understanding the Economic Concept of "Wealth" 
"Wealth" or being "wealthy" is well understood by most people in society.  We know "wealth" when we see it.  We all know we want to be "wealthy."  But when it comes to having a thorough and fundamental economic understanding of wealth, most people (even economists) fail.  The reasons are many, but most people just don't have the time or intellectual desire to fully think through "wealth."  However, if you take the time to do, not only do you drastically improve your understanding of economics, but you also dramatically increase your chances of being happy.  And that, ultimately, is the point and purpose of economics and life.The first "stage" or level of understanding of wealth people have is money.  I remember a friend of mine and I in college walking across campus on a blustery fall day.  The wind was blowing and somewhere upwind somebody must have dropped some cash because soon $1 and $5 bills were blowing right across our feet.For a nanosecond we were stunned because, well..."there's money blowing across our feet."  But soon our innate, human instincts kicked in and we were scrambling to grab as much cash as we can, pushing each  other out of the way in a spirited friendly competition of enrichment.  After grabbing all we could see we were each about $15 "wealthier," but what I remember most about it was the IMMEDIATE and RAPID genetic response we both had to chase and push each other over bits of green colored paper.The question is why were we so excited about paper?Obviously it wasn't the paper as much as it was the stuff the paper could buy.  And if we could grab that money it would allow us to buy stuff that would directly help support and enhance our lives.  And this is the second "stage" of people's understanding of wealth.  It's not about the money.  It's about the stuff.This is a key epiphany to have because what you realize is that economics is not about the "money" a nation prints.  It's about how much stuff it can produce.  This is why, again, Adam Smith wrote "The Wealth of Nations" not the "Money of Nations."However, what precisely is stuff?  Yes it is goods and services that can be used to help extend, maintain, and enhance your life, but does just having more "stuff" necessarily make you wealthy?Well, yes and no. Everybody needs a certain amount of "stuff" to survive.  We all need a certain amount of food.  We all need a certain amount and quality of shelter.  And we all need a certain amount of clothing.  But for the vast majority of mankind's 2 million year existence on this planet just scrounging up this basic level of "stuff" was incredibly challenging.  Again, it was no more than 300 years ago that hunger was the number on thing humans were battling against for survival.  Thus it is very much hard-wired into our brains to scrounge and consume as much stuff as possible for survival (which is why dogs will not stop eating just as humans won't either and we have an obesity problem despite the "food" problem being solved).  Ergo, human's drive to be wealthy is not so much about the stuff itself but to have the peace of mind, sense of security, and psychological benefit that comes with being wealthy.  i.e. - you never have to worry about starvation, survival, shelter, or work again (notice how immediate and happy people are when they win the lottery).Now, in a literally sense to be wealthy, this would mean you would have to store up all the food you're going to eat, have a house you will live in forever, and have all the other material items and "stuffs" collected at some massive depot.  Then, slowly, but surely, you'd eat through these resources, dying fat and happy. But "stuff" doesn't work that way.  Food rots.  Milk spoils.  Even houses deteriorate and collapse without maintenance.  So how does one get wealthy without owning that actual stuff?Well, welcome to the third stage.  Time.At first you'd be tempted to say, "well I would just store all my wealth in the form of money to purchase future stuff!"  And this is true.  You could store your wealth in the form of money in a bank account, silver or gold in a vault, or some other form of economic medium that stores your wealth.But (bar winning the lottery) how did you get so wealthy in the first place?  Where does this "wealth," the ability to buy future stuff (and so much of it you don't have to worry about it anymore) come from?Well, the answer is time.Again, barring winning the lottery or inheriting wealth, you have to understand what wealth really is and what its origins truly are. For while wealth is just "a lot of stuff" stuff at its "economic-atomic level" is created with human time.I've mentioned this before in several of my books because the concept is so important, but everything you see around you ONLY exists in its current form because human time went into it.  The computer you are reading this on right now was sand, metals, and minerals in the ground.  And that sand, metal and minerals would remain there had it not been for humans to dig them up out of the ground, refine them, and then assemble them into this computer.  The walls and sheet rock in the room you are currently in would still be timber and rock somewhere had it not been for humans who cut, hauled, and built the building around you.In other words, yes, stuff is the true source of wealth, but stuff does not exist unless humans exchange their time turning raw materials into usable, consumable stuffs.Thus, when we look at this or any other economy, it is no so much various tradesmen and specialists exchanging their wares, products and services as much as it is an exchange of time.  I will give up my time producing a car in exchange for money.  This money will allow me NOT to buy groceries, but rather to pay for the time of the thousands of people involved in producing groceries.This then puts the onus and origins of wealth in the only place it can be - your time.  Specifically, how valuable is your time relative to other people whose time you are going to exchange yours for.If you are going to become an "English major" or an "aspiring rap artist" or a "professional activist" let us be very clear what you are saying.  You are saying,"My time is worthless.  One minute of my time has little to no value because nobody will exchange one minute of their time executing their profession for me executing mine."  HOwever, if you were to become a doctor, an engineer, a pharmacist, or a tradesman you are saying,"My time has value.  One minute of my time will command MULTIPLE minutes of other peoples' because my trade, my skill is that much more difficult, specialized, and in demand."And it is this disparity, this difference, this deficit between how many minutes of other people's time you can command with a mere minute of yours that builds wealth. This is why the "Masters in Pansexual Horned Frog 19th Century Literature Studies" makes $9 an hour serving fries to an electrician who makes $50 hour wiring the house of a surgeon who charges $90,000 for 5 hours of open heart surgery.  However, don't think of it in terms of "dollars per hour" think of it in terms of "minutes of a skilled person per minutes of an unskilled person."If I do the math right, just ONE MINUTE of the surgeon above can command 2,000 minutes of the Pansexual Horned Frog Literature major.  And since it is human time that ultimately makes all stuff, you can see with such an huge ratio how skilled people can accumulate and command such wealth.This, technically explains to the atomic level what wealth really is and where it comes from.  However, this is only on an economics level.  There is one final stage to truly understand wealth, and this also involves time.Understand there is a law of diminishing returns to wealth.  That once you get enough of it, you derive less and less benefit from it.  So when Bill Gates made his first billion, no doubt he was very happy.  But what about the next billion?  And the next billion?  And that one after that?  For all practical purposes the "first" billion took care of most of his material needs, desires, and wants.  But as fun and awesome it is to have lots of "stuff," stuff is not the most important or sought after item in the world.It's other people. Specifically their time.Yes, you can command people through money and the labor market to give you 4 minutes of their time in exchange for 1 of yours.  But they are working for you and in the end are giving you the finished product of "stuff."  But what humans truly value is the time and company of other people who do not give them a "product" or a thing in the end, but companionship, love, friendship, and intellectual stimulation.  It is (again) why playing video games is fun, but playing against your friends online is even better.  Going to a movie is great, but watching it with friends is better.In other words the ultimate form of wealth is other people WILLINGLY deciding to spend a percentage of their finite and dwindling lives hanging out with you.  Not in the expectation there will be "stuff" at the end, but simply because they want to.This then changes the focus of wealth from "skilling up" or "leveling up" so your time is more precious than other people's time in the labor market, to that of being a good and enjoyable person.  A good and enjoyable person that people willingly spend their time on.Are you honorable?Are you honest?Do you speak the truth?Are you interesting?Are you funny?Are you selfless?Are you altruistic?Do you have standards?Do you have ethics?Are you charming?Are you entertaining?Are you interesting?And are you humble?In other words, to be truly wealthy you need to command other people's time in two different ways.  One, economically so you can accumulate enough wealth all your material needs are taken care of.  But, two, socially so other humans willingly spend time with you and you have good social, familial and romantic lives. This final "stage" or epiphany is arguably the most important economic lesson humans need to learn.  Because once realized not only does it makes people happier, but it has a drastic and amazing effect on your personal finances.  For once you realize that true wealth comes from friends, family, and loved ones, your need to make a ton of money for material wealth disappears, or at least is severely lessened to a minimalist level.  And if all 315 million Americans realized this, imagine what would happen to our finances.Nobody would be borrowing money to buy a fancy car they can't afford to impress people.Nobody would be buying designer jeans or bags to impress people they hate.Nobody would be slaving away to pay for a mortgage on a McMansion next to the Joneses. Nearly all consumer and personal debt would be wiped out (or severely lessened), people would adequately save for retirement, and a level of sanity and economic knowledge would pervade the entire population that no doubt would lead to a much more stable, brighter, and happier economic future.But something tells me more people will tune into Kim Kardashian's derriere than read this article. 
US Money Supply as a Percent of Global GDP 
If you don't know what a "world reserve currency" is, allow me to explain it in terms of non-economists (ie-normal people who have sex).Not all countries are created equal.  Many are corrupt, either through their leaders, their people, or both.  And so if other countries, people or businesses would like to conduct business with one such country (say, Greece or North Korea or some other unreliable crap hole) you would like to receive payment not in Drachma/Euros or North Korean Won, but something more stable.  This gives rise to demand for a third party's currency, a third party whose currency is reliable and trustworthy.  Enter in the US dollar.After WWII it was pretty apparent that the United States was "the last man standing."  Yes, many countries on the Allied side of the war "won," but their economies and infrastructures were devastated.  It was only the US that had the economic productive capacity to make their green pieces of paper valuable (not to mention the Ward Cleaverly-Dwight Eisenhowery-US was infinitely more reliable and trustworthy than the murderous Stalin).  And so the US dollar became the world's "reserve currency" which allowed international commerce to be conducted in a reliable and trustworthy medium of exchange.Fast forward many decades later and you might ask, "Now that all these countries have recovered, why do we even have a global currency?"  And that is a good question.  Nearly all the participants of WWII have recovered, rebuilding their infrastructures and economies, producing economic value that provides their pieces of paper worth, so why not let all countries' respective pieces of paper trade against each other on the international currency markets?Which they do, but, there are two things that keep the US dollar as the world's reserve currency.1.  There is still demand for international transactions to be made between two different countries in a currency that is largely deemed reliable.  The US dollar (more or less) has and continues to more or less fit this bill.  Countries trust it, view the United States with confidence and believe our green backs have intrinsic value.2.  Habit.  Though I am not a huge international traveler, it is amazing how many countries accept US dollars.  Cut across the border to either Canada or Mexico, they take US dollars.  Take a boat to nearly any Caribbean island, they take US dollars.  The Jamaicans at the (only) tropical resort I ever visited, very happy to take dollars.But just try the reverse.No Canadian can buy anything with their "fancy schmancy" "plastic" currency here in the US.I don't even know what a Jamaican dollar looks like, let alone would be willing to accept one.And Mexican Pesos I view as a novelty that I can more or less assume will lose value as what few I've collected sit and inflate away in my desk.Now most people (both Americans and non) don't think twice about this.  They merely accept it as fact that "yes, my US dollar will likely be accepted in most countries" and "hell yes, I'll take that dirty, filthy Yanqi money off of your hands Americano!"But if you think about it, the economic ramifications of this agreement are immense (if not, outright insane).  And if you figure out what these ramifications are you will not only more thoroughly understand what a "reserve currency" is, but be able to understand a lot of what is going on with the US economy.The primary "epiphany" you should realize from this is that through mere TRUST, through mere RELIABILITY one currency can replace all others.  But infinitely more impressive than that is that in replacing all other currencies you exponentially improve that currency's purchasing power (and thus the lives of the people who live in the country that is home to the world's reserve currency).In other words, each "normal" countries' respective currency can only buy goods and services within that country.Jamaican dollars can only purchase what is made in Jamaica.Japanese Yen can only buy what is made in Japan.And Australian dollars can only buy what's made in Australia.But US dollars can buy nearly everything in the world.In other words, if you can get your currency to become a world reserve currency, your purchasing power goes from the mere domestic production of your lowly, single country to that of the entire world.  And all without lifting a finger or providing the slightest bit of additional economic production.In the case of the US dollar, this means Americans (or anybody holding a US dollar) can not only buy the $17 trillion in US made goods and services, but (more or less) the $76 TRILLION in world GDP.  Did Americans work harder?No.Are Americans smarter?No.Did "The Lord Our Savior Jesus Christ" look favorably upon us?No.All that happened was 60 odd years ago millions of US soldiers came over to Europe and Japan, helped destroy what remained of the majority of the world's economic producing countries, while the US homeland remained relatively unscathed, giving us and the US dollar the much-coveted "world reserve currency status."And now, instead of just being able to buy goods in these here United States of 'Merica, we can and have bought whatever we damned well pleased simply because "we're Americans."However, there is an additional benefit to being the world's reserve currency. Not only do we get to buy everything in the world, but nearly all of our financial sins are bought and paid for by the work and toil of others.Consider two countries - Greece and the United States.Both have unsupportable debts.Both run chronic deficits. Both have increasingly lazy and slothful people.Both support their parasites over their producers. And both are headed up by spoiled socialist children incomprehensibly ignorant of economics. So how is it Greece is going through tumult and chaos, while the US is enjoying is getting away scot-free?Well, perhaps a chart will help.Below is the M2 money supply of the US dollar divided by US GDP and World GDP.
What this essentially shows is how much money there is relative to the amount of stuff that money can purchase.  Normally you would compare the US dollar to US economic production (the red line), however, since the US dollar is the world reserve currency, it pays to compare it to what it can really buy - the world's economic output. This results in an interesting divergence between the two numbers.  The red line shows what most Americans are concerned about.  An increasing amount of money being printed against a stagnating amount of economic production.  There was roughly 51 cents for every dollar of GDP circulating, while now it's 65 cents - fears of inflation and a run on precious metals expected.  However, the blue line shows something quite different.  Almost an "ideal" increase of the money supply along with the economic production that said currency can buy, resulting in practically no change and no inflation. And when you consider that the US dollar is the reserve currency of the world and that it is not solely affected by domestic production (but fear of other countries' inferior currencies) then a lot of other things make sense in this seemingly economically insane world.One, this is why the United States can behave like Greece, but not suffer the consequences.  Americans are by all means just as spoiled and petulant as the Greeks.  We just happen to have the world's reserve currency...so nanny nanny boo boo on them.Two, this is why our deficits and debts seemingly don't matter to anybody.  If the US was an individual applying for a loan, no bank, even the crappy ones I worked at, would touch him.  But since it's the "US" and we have the magical currency, every other country out there is more than happy to lend our insolvent and irresponsible government money.Three, this is why precious metals haven't gone up (as much as was anticipated anyway).  By every sane, reasonable, and empirical logic, gold and silver should be rocketing against the US dollar.  But this would, once again, assume the US dollar could only purchase US goods.  It also assumes nearly every other country out there sucks even worse than the United States.  Ergo, with things looking worse in other countries, combined with the US' already-established world reserve currency, it is just too convenient for people to pile into the dollar, giving it more purchasing power, and driving precious metal prices down against it.There are other economic phenomena that having the world's reserve currency explains (and masks).  But there is one thing I do want to point out about it.  It moots and obsoletes nearly every form of traditional (and sane) economic analysis.  One of the things I loathe about leftists and Keynesians is the intellectual dishonesty they flagrantly display proclaiming their policies (which have failed in nearly every other country) works here in the US.  While marginally true, it's completely contingent on an incredibly lucky economic technicality - we have the world's reserve currency.  You take that away and the US would be no different than Greece, Japan, Spain, Portugal, or any other heavily indebted, non-producing nation.  The truth is modern day Keynsian economics and the leftist faux-economists it has spawned are miserable failures that owe the delay of their demise to millions of WWII soldiers and two very large oceans that blessed the US with a world reserve currency.  And to stand there, hiding behind this fact, while having the audacity to claim they know what they're doing, while the rest of the world proves they don't, is the epitome of cowardice and hypocrisy. 
Were the Nazi's (the National SOCIALISTS) Socialist? 
I faced a problem.I had found another one of those "universally known economic assumptions" that everybody assumes is true, but did not know for a fact whether or not it was.  We all know these economic assumptions, and even we are guilty of assuming they're true every day:Capitalism is the best economic system there is (proven true)"The rich don't pay their fair share" (proven false)"Sexism is causing the wage gap" (proven false), and"Housing always goes up" (absolutely proven false)However, this one was going to be a little bit harder to prove:Whether the Nazis (the National SOCIALISTS) were indeed socialist.The reason I was interested in proving this right/wrong is because it often surfaces when people are debating ideologies and many conservative/libertarian/freemarket types will point out that the "Nazis were socialist" in order to show that not all socialists are "nice" and that Hitler wasn't "right wing".  However, it wasn't simply going to be a matter of going to the FRED database, pulling two data series, correlating them in Excel and then giving the proverbial statistical finger to the left.  It was going to be more problematic. First, I'll buy you a beer if you can find the actual Nazi's budget.  And I'll buy you a chaser if you can find them going back to pre war Germany.  AND I'll buy you a martini if you can get me their GNP/GDP figures!They just don't seem to exist. It's either been too long ago or the actual documents have been destroy or they're buried in some CIA warehouse next to the Ark of the Covenant.  So I couldn't conclusively point at numbers and had to find some other means.This brought up the second problem.  Without actual budget figures, I had to rely on academic research.  Unfortunately, this academic research largely focused on military spending and not non-military spending or the overall political-economic philosophy of the Nazi party.  However, it did provide some great insight into what Hitler was "thinking" in terms of economics, as well as precise and specific actions the government took during pre-war and wartime Germany.  Some of these actions included:Price controlsEstablishing a national labor groupMassive deficit spending (however no obvious data was available)Massive public works (like our CCC, the autobahn, and other Keynesian things)RationingNationalizing industriesBanning large retail stores (though due to their primarily Jewish ownership)Government issuance of securities rising to 90% of total securities issued (ie only 10% private sector)And a corporate tax reaching 98% All of these are obviously and blatantly socialist, and conservatives may think they've won the debate about whether the Nazis were socialist here.  But you know the left and you know merely citing actions Nazis took is NOT going to convince them.You need data.You need charts.You need irrefutable proof.That's the only way to get leftists to stare blankly at your data, be speechless, then shrug their shoulders, dismiss your data, and call you a racist (which is the only form of victory you can get over leftists because they are so delusional they think they can never be wrong).  So inevitably, I knew I would have to find data.  And after a solid hour of researching, I found two datasets, pre-war Germany, that though NOT GDP and the actual Nazi federal budgets, still allowed me to do a little bit of Algebra (that's "math" for you liberal arts majors) and come up with the precise numbers I was looking for:Nazi military expenditure as a % of GDPandThe pre-war budget of the Third ReichWhen I put them together I could infer the dataset I universally use to determine whether or not a country is "socialist" or "capitalist."Government spending as a % of GDP

And when we look at the actual numbers we can conclusively say that the Nazis were indeed socialists. Government spending as a percentage of GDP averaged around 40% pre-war.  Additionally (at least in the beginning) 80% of the budget was spent on social programs, not the hallmark of an "evil, right wing, capitalist economy."  And when combined with the blatant socialist moves of nationalization, government work projects, price controls, and other forms of government intervention it is very clear that the effective economic philosophy of the Nazis was socialism.However, in intellectually honesty (as well as intellectual interest) there are some interesting observations that need to be pointed out.One, there was not much time to witness or study Nazism's economic policy that wasn't obscured or masked by Hitler's war ambitions.  Matter of fact nearly all of the academic research on "Nazi Economics" was about Hitler's drive for re-armament.  Ergo, to see the default state of a "peace time Nazi economy" you maybe get that in 1935 before Hitler ramps up the military spending.Two, the "Nazi miracle" (where Hitler gets Germany to full employment faster than any other western nation out of the Great Depression) is actually quite misleading.  Yes GDP was growing at double digit rates.  Yes, "full employment" was attained.  But it was all due to an overly aggressive rearmament.  So "overly aggressive" that actual standards of living decreased.  The military took so much in terms of resources civilians had to suffer rationing, consume less consumer goods and in general sacrifice for the military.  And this was NOT even during the war.Three, ironically the same could be said about the US.  Once we entered the war we essentially did what Nazi Germany did during pre-war.  Build up our military at all costs.  Food and fuel rationing.  But in a Keynesian dream come true we "got that dem der GDP figure nice and high and got dat dem der employment rate to full" even though people will still sacrificing.  About the only thing that could be said that was better in the US was that pre-war we were getting out of the depression by supplying the Europeans the materials they needed to kill each other.  This once again shows the obfuscating effect war has on an economy making it difficult to discuss whether that economy is indeed "capitalist" or "socialist."Finally, the father of Nazism himself, Hitler, actually didn't seem too interested in economics.  He was not consistent in different economic stances, first claiming one thing, then contradicting in another.  And though I did not read Mein Kampf, his overall effective actions (in my research) were to outsource the economics of Nazism to his financial leaders (Schacht, Funk, and Goering).  Here (once again) the focus shifted almost immediately from rebuilding Germany to preparing it for war.In the end, however, whatever Hitler's and the Nazi's ultimate philosophical economic aims were, the actions and numbers were effectively socialist.  Certainly during "peacetime" and especially so during war (as military spending is still state spending, akin to North Korea).  Thankfully, it is a theoretical debate about what a post-WWII Nazi economy would look like.  
 
 
Math Proves the Left's Obsession With Corporate Taxes is Futile 
It is coming up on 5 years now that I have avoided getting into debates or arguments with leftists in person or at social settings.  I sit there, ignoring them at parties, knowing full well the BEST outcome is them saying "agree to disagree" and the worst is me being asked to leave as I offended the effeminate and weak sensibilities of Minneapolis' effete and aging Gen X intellectual class.  However, while that is how I handle myself in personal situations, I am not unaware of the general political pulse of the nation, as I am constantly reminded of society's ignorance online.Be it comments sections, links, articles, news, or posts I am acutely aware that nothing has changed and have likely gotten worse.  College students and their professors are hard to discern as they throw equally childish and victim-whoring temper tantrums over adult-world realities.  Democrats don't even try anymore to come up with convincing lies about national debts and e-mail servers.  And every soccer mom is seemingly rushing to have her precious (and otherwise completely normal) child diagnosed with the latest mental disorder to excuse her and her husband's lack of parenting.  It's an insane world, and I take solace in that I no longer care and am just going to watch the show as I imbibe in as much Rumpleminze as possible before it's over.However, every once in a while a leftist choir will sing a chorus that is so parroted, so knee jerk and so Goebbels that it compels me to dust off my ole Economist hat, fire up by economist spidey senses, and do a little research that will debunk the lie indisputably.  Not because I want to have the research to point to at a later date should I be debating a leftist and need it.  Not because I wanted to know for a fact what the truth of the matter was.  But merely to piss them off and force their brains to the uncomfortable brink of cognitive dissonance as quickly as possible.  And chorus the choir was singing this time was "evil corporate tax breaks."Now this chorus has many variations:If corporations paid what they did in 1950 all our problems would be solvedCorporations get all this "corporate welfare"and the always bland, non-discript and completely void of any intelligence whatsoeverCorporations don't pay their fair share!So I did a little bit of digging, pulled the national data on corporate profits and corporate taxes going back to 1947, and have more than enough data to put an end to this debate and the above claims once and for all.First, corporate welfare.Unfortunately, this isn't a matter of facts or statistics, as much as it is the left's complete ignorance of basic accounting.  Because there is no such thing as "corporate welfare" UNLESS you want to consider the bank bailouts and grant money to solar companies welfare.  In that case, yes, that IS corporate welfare and it is wrong.  But sadly most leftists confuse merely giving corporations a TAX BREAK with a HANDOUT like welfare.The truth is that all taxes (corporate or individual) are based on there being a profit to tax in the first place.  This is the concept of "before tax profit," the amount of money left over after a company deducts all of its operating expenses from its total revenues.  This "before tax profit" is the amount taxed because taxing a company on its revenue would be like taxing a father of five on his gross salary.  Certain expenses need to be deducted so that the individual/corporation can pay for vital expenses to merely exist and run a business.Now the stated corporate tax rate is 40% in the US (and most states).  However, sometimes local and national governments will give a corporation a tax break if they invest in a certain town, build a plant in an impoverished area, etc. etc.  However, this is NOT welfare.  It is merely LOWERING the tax the company has to pay to the government.  So instead of paying 40% the company pays 35% or 30%.  The company did not "collect a welfare check" that required the taxpayers to bail it out.  It was already self-supporting itself and NOT parasiting off of society.  It is merely just a lowering of its tax bill.Understanding this fact allows us to move onto chorus #2, "Corporations use tax loopholes to lower their taxes!"You damn right they do.  And it's all legal.Historically, the left was right.  In one year (1951) the effective tax rate was 50% for US corporations and yes the economy was booming back then.  However, this had more to do with the fact the US was the only industrialized economy remaining in the world and our corporations were the sole suppliers of goods to the world.  That argument aside, the effective corporate tax rate has since gone down to today's rate of 25%.

This effective rate of 25% (whilst the statutory rate is 40%) proves corporations are indeed using whatever loopholes they can to park money overseas and lower their tax bills.However, while the left will jump to say, "SEE!!! SEE!!!!!!" they need to realize it's a Pyrrhic victory.  The reason why is that corporate taxes are out of their control.  Many other countries have found that instead of hating and villainizing corporations, they'd rather woo them (and their jobs) to their home countries.  And they do this by LOWERING, if not ELIMINATING corporate taxes.  This has given rise to rich nation states such as Hong Kong, Singapore, Bermuda, the Caymans, Lichtenstein and Luxembourg, as well as corporations (who are global in nature) simply moving their HQ's and operations to tax-friendlier countries.  And no matter how desperate you are to get them to pay those 50% tax rates they did back in 1951, the more you squeeze them, the more they flee.Alas, just like I have to accept the fact it is outside of my control to get leftist faux-intellectual Minneapolitans to adhere to logic, leftists have to accept the fact forcing private companies to pay more in taxes is increasingly outside of theirs.But let us say corporations are not like wet soap, and the harder you squeeze them, the faster they slip out of your hand.  Let's just assume we "magically" could wave Paul Krugman's "magic wand of Keynesianism" and force ALL corporations to ALL pay 50% of their profits to the state.  And let's ALSO assume corporations would not move their investments or even be slightly disincentived by you stealing 1 out of every 2 dollars they earned.Well that's the leftists' dream come true, isn't it?If corporations "just paid their fair share" then all of the country's financial problems would go away?Right?So sorry.  It's that damn reality math that keeps getting in the way.  In a make-believe Keynesian Dreamworld where Robert Reich and Paul Krugman run through daffodils, holding hands, while wearing speedos, the additional money raised if we retroactively applied a 50% tax rate to all corporate taxes going back to 1971 (when our national debt started its upward climb) would amount to:$7.9 trillion.A full $10.2 trillion short of our national debt.I'd even be more than willing to throw in a couple extra trillion to account for inflation and savings in interest, but I'm terribly sorry leftist speedo worshipers, it's MATHEMATICALLY IMPOSSIBLE TO SOLVE THE COUNTRY'S PROBLEMS THROUGH TAXING CORPORATIONS!  In order to do that, we'd need a tax rate closer to 80% and that would just send companies screaming offshore.The reality is that the US has a spending problem and not a revenue problem.  But complicating this problem is that the left in this country is too lazy to do some basic math to even determine whether their ideas are feasible, and complicating it even more is that the left is mentally impaired to the point they would rather believe in their religion of socialism than the reality of math.The real issue is how do YOU react to these people? Like I said, I gave up 5 years ago trying to convince them.  When I pointed out simple things like the above math I was called a racist, a fascist, etc. etc., and it finally dawned on me there's no reasoning with insane people.  The only thing to do is make your case, mock and ridicule those who believe in these lies, and then enjoy watching reality destroy these delusional peoples' lives as the reality socialism promised them never materializes.  It's my new favorite past time and sadly, about the only one left to truly enjoy. 
The DIY Poverty Trap 
In my previous post I explained how allowing people to specialize in a trade or a skill drastically increases the standards of living for society by allowing us to produce not only MORE, but higher quality goods and services.  However, such specialization, by necessity, requires superiority and excellence, both of which have been under increasing attack since the 1960's.  These attacks have economic consequences, which is the topic of today's post - the "DIY Poverty Trap."Because of what amounts to nothing more than rank parasitism and envy, America's pillars of excellence, superiority, achievement, accomplishment, and success are all under attack.  The attacks come from all fronts, be it political (the rich don't pay their fair share), educational (privilege, sexism, racism, and all the other childish pablum of academia), corporate (CSR, diversity, etc.), racial (stop acting white, Oreo), or social (27th place trophies, not keeping score, fat acceptance, etc.).  However, while this results in a general, society-wide hatred of those who wish to pursue excellence, the economic effects fall into two general categories.The first is that it deters those who have already achieved excellence and production in their respective fields.  A doctor, an entrepreneur, an engineer, etc., somebody who is making good money stops and asks him/herself,"Why the hell should I work more?  Why the hell should I pay more in taxes?  Why am I working for these parasites, ESPECIALLY when they villainize me and blame me for all of their-largely-self-inflicted problems?  Screw that, I'm going Galt/on vacation/moving the headquarters overseas/etc."The result is less economic growth than what would have been had these people not been as progressively taxed or politically and socially stigmatized.  Medtronic would not have moved overseas.  Google and Apple wouldn't be parking their money in the Caymans.  And people might be willing to invest in the US.  It's hard to estimate what economic growth would have been had we championed success, rich people, and excellence, but in merely getting rid of corporate tax rates an estimated $2 trillion alone would be repatriated over night into the US economy.  Regardless, because success and excellence are under attack, those capable of it choose to scale back or not participate at all.The second economic effect is a consequence of the first.  With all those "nasty" productive, successful specialists leaving or at least not investing in the US, economic growth has dropped to about 55% of what it used to be back in 1940's-1960's.  Naturally, employment has suffered both in terms of UNemployment and UNDERemployment, especially amongst the younger generations.  So instead of being contracted right out of a high school metals program to work at Boeing in 1948, you are begging and pleading to get a job at Starbucks with your Masters in Nutrition in 2015, replete with $70,000 in student loans.  Regardless, they too are not achieving nor pursuing excellence.  They are merely getting by because of the lack of economic opportunities.But while both groups are not producing specialization and excellence, the reasons are quite different.  Group 1 is capable of it, but CHOOSES not to.  They have no incentive, they have no desire.  They are opting out of gracing society with their excellence.  Group 2, however, doesn't have a choice.  They are not CAPABLE of providing excellence and specialization either because they lack the skills or there is no economic opportunity for them to do so.  Thankfully, for Group 1, it doesn't matter.  They've largely "got theirs" and can afford to merely scale down.  But because of the lack of economic growth it is the young generations stuck in Group 2 that fall into the "DIY Poverty Trap."To understand the "DIY Poverty Trap" you have to think of it as the opposite of The Law of Specialization.  With specialization, as evidenced in the previous post, you are allowed to trade your units of time for other people's units of time so that you may specialize and create superior, cheaper goods for them, as they in turn create superior, cheaper goods for you.  It is why it's nearly 300% MORE EFFICIENT for my girlfriend to work in her specialty (accounting) and pay for a professional who specialty is manicures and nails, than try to do it herself.However, this hinges on one very important assumption that was (purposely) kept out of the previous post's discussion - wages.The only reason it was economically efficient for The Girlfriend to outsource her French nails to a pro was because her wage was adequately high enough to afford the specialized services of the salonist.  Had she no SPECIALIZATION or EXCELLENCE in her field of accounting, she would only be making $8 as an unskilled laborer/nanny/barista and instead of 119 minutes of her life spent on getting French nails, it would have cost her 265 minutes.Thus the importance of CHAMPIONING the specialization of labor and achieving excellence in a specific field, and NOT CRIMINALIZING IT, PUNISHING IT, OR MOCKING IT IN SOCIETY.However, it is sadly not just merely an issue of getting a "specialty" in something and then "boom" the problem is done.  Different economic and sociological variables have conspired that has resulted in a perfect "economic storm" that creates an effective "event horizon" that keeps people in poverty and in the DIY trap.When you take the:1.  Low economic growth2.  Few economic opportunities3.  Worthless degrees the majority of young people have earned 4.  The crippling debts they took on to buy said worthless degrees, and (heaven help you)5.  Any illegitimate children they might have hadthey are stuck in the DIY poverty trap and will likely never achieve the "escape velocity" needed to get out of it.  The reason why is that they can't even afford to go back to college to retool themselves and learn an actual skill or trade that is specialized enough to pull them out of it.In short, since they don't have a specialization or are excellent in anything, they cannot barter for other people's highly specialized (and infinitely economically more efficient) skills, condemning them to this effective "lower tier" part of the economy.And this is where the DIY Poverty Trap comes in.Since they can't afford specialized services, nearly everything has to be done on their own because it's "cheaper."  Of course, financially it may be, but not time wise.  This ends up costing them more of their time, denying them the ability to spend that time specializing in something.For example, no more than two years ago, it largely "financially" paid me to fix my own motorcycle.  One time, in what seemed was going to be a "simple fix," I had a piston misfiring, which led me to believe it was time to change the spark plugs.  While my diagnosis was correct, my estimation of what it would take to fix my motorcycle was woefully inadequate.The spark plugs were underneath a stubborn airfilter and carburetor and very leaky fuel system.  But none of those could be accessed until I removed a very NOT intuitive gas tank.  After many tries, I still couldn't get the motorcycle to turn over correctly, until I realized that in taking off the gas tank I had damaged the starter wire.When all was said and done it took the following amount of time:360 minutes of amateurish mechanical work1,220 minutes of working up at $15 an hour to pay for the $280 mechanics billTotal life lost: 1,580 minutes.However, that was when I worked as an UNSPECIALIZED, NON-EXCELLENT security guard.  Well before I discovered I had a god-given talent at being a SPECIALIZED and EXCELLENT asshole and started billing out $100/hour at my new company Asshole Consulting.Now of course, I don't work 40 hours a week making $100/hour, but for the sake of analysis, assume I did.  And let's also assume instead of trying to be macho, I admit I would probably make things worse and outsource my motorcycle repairs to a professional.  My new "total life lost" would not have been 1,580 minutes, but rather...108 minutes.Now this of course assumes the pro would not have severed the starter wire and that I was a full-time "professional asshole."  But they key point is that it shows you just what a DRASTIC and POWERFUL gravitational pull the DIY Poverty Trap is.  It is (in this instance) 10 TIMES LESS EFFICIENT THAN SPECIALIZATION.  A 10 fold "time sink."  And forget motorcycles, consider that nearly every aspect of your life has to be "do it yourself."CleaningOil changeHouse repairsComputer repairsCooking vs. eating outGrocery shoppingThe list is endless and the damage is incalculable to your economic life.The larger point is to realize NOT just how insane it is that our society, politicians, teachers, professors, racial groups, and media types punish and ridicule excellence, achievement, and specialization, but to realize just what an economic price is paid, especially by those who are in the poorer classes and trapped by the DIY Poverty Trap.  Not only are they kept in poverty by the gravitational pull of low wages, but are lied to about how to get out of it simply so certain leftists political parties and academians may stay in power.And whereas normally I would feel pity and sadness for people stuck in such a position, when they viscerally and enthusiastically accused me and other people who pursued excellence as "privileged," hate us and call us "racist" or "sexist," and dare to demand that I pay more in taxes to bail them out of their mistakes...I just kick back and say...Enjoy the decline.  
French Nails and Capitalism 
I looked at The Girlfriend and said, "Girlfriend!"She said, "Yes, Boyfriend?""I have decided I like French nails!" I decreed."Really, why is that?" she asked."Because it goes well with your white lingerie numbers, plus they just look classy."And sure enough within 48 hours she was downstairs with a French nail kit trying to do her own French nails. While the operation to get my girlfriend to do something for me went smoothly, the same could not be said about her endeavor to do her own French nails.  For not only had she never done them before, but doing one's own nails requires that one hand, by necessity, not be used.  At best they came out "average."  Lines not perfectly geometric, depth not perfectly uniform, the coating not perfectly applied, etc.  But they were still cute and the fact she did it for me is all that really mattered.  However, she was not personally satisfied with the results, and when the varnish and nail polish chipped and deteriorated away within 10 days, she went and had them professionally done.I wasn't expecting anything much different, but when she returned the difference was jaw-dropping.  The shine and sheen were perfect.  The color spot on.  And the craftsmanship in terms of precision and uniformity was obvious.  The difference was blindingly obvious even to a boorish bachelor such as myself.Curious as to how much this cost I said, "What did that set you back?"And to my shock she said, "$30."Immediately my SAEG(TM) mind went into action.  The materiel The Girlfriend purchased to do her nails the first time was at least $10.  Then a solid hour was spent doing them, followed by at least 20 minutes of incapacitation because she couldn't "touch anything" as they dried.  But in what was no more than a 40 minute professional job, and for a mere $20 more in price she had far superior French nails when all was said and done.But the amazing French nails did not stop amazing there.  A full MONTH had passed and they were STILL in perfect shape, showing no signs of wear or chipping.  And it is here my economic mind noticed just what testament to the powers of capitalism French nails were.To simplify this important economic lesson we will do away with things like wage and opportunity cost (that will follow in the sequel to this post) and focus solely on the only unit of economic value - time.The original outlay of time The Girlfriend had to spend on doing her own French nails was this:26 minutes of labor earning the money to pay for the materiel60 minutes actually doing the nails20 minutes running around with a gay-esque hand pose as they driedTotal Investment - 106 minutes of lifeThe outlay of time needed to afford a pro to do her nails for her was this:79 minutes of labor earning the money to pay the pro40 minutes sitting time while her nails were done0 minutes waiting for them to dry because they have an infrared drying device that cures the varnish Total Investment - 119 minutes of lifeHowever, while at first it may seem it's still better to "DIY," keep in mind when she did it herself, it only lasted 10 days.  The professional job lasted three times that long.  So assuming The Girlfriend would have to do her nails three times a month, the real effective costs are:318 minutes (for a marginal job I might add) vs. 119 minutes for a professional job.It is here we plainly see what is arguably the most important and powerful aspect of capitalism - the law of specialization.  In allowing people to specialize in a trade or skill, not only do prices dramatically drop, but the quality of the goods and services dramatically increase.  This increases people's purchasing power, as well as improves the quality of the goods and services we consume, increasing overall standards of living.However there is a problem with specialization.  It requires you be really good at something.  It requires that you "excel" in something.  And excellence is increasingly becoming a four-letter word in today's ever-more socialist society.  And as society has decided to lash out, punish and tax excellence, it has ignorantly also lashed out, punished, and attacked one of the key engines of economic growth and human advancement.The consequences of which are the topic of our next post.  
Why You Are a Slave for 13 Years 
Time for some basic, simple 4th grade math everybody.  The kind of math that debunks even the most complicated and detailed arguments of the left, not to mention, boils things down into very basic, simple, and understandable terms.Understand that money is nothing more than the physical manifestation of human time.  We, as humans, would like to exchange our time because different humans have different specialties that benefit us in terms and quality and extension of our lives.I don't know how to farm, but Bob the farmer does.I don't know how to program, but Bill the programmer does.And I don't know how to do taxes, but Amy the accountant does.Sadly, neither Bob, Bill, nor Amy want me to spend my time doing YouTube videos for them all day.  BUT, if I convert my time into a universally accepted medium of exchange (called "money") which they can use to buy and purchase things they DO want, this allows us then to exchange our time.So somebody pays me for my curse-laden wisdom.  This transforms my time into money, and with this money I buy groceries from Farmer Bob who provides me his time in the form of said groceries.There is one small minor problem.Once you convert your time into money, into a physically tangible item, it can be stolen, take, "haircutted" or taxed away from you.  And we all know how thieves and governments (but I repeat myself) love to take your money.Now, in theory, there IS a difference between a government and a thief.  A thief merely steals your money and provides nothing in return, thus the definition of theft.  But a government TO THE PENNY should be provide you something in return.What, you ask?Well, public goods.  Goods that directly benefit you.Roads, defense, judicial system, laws, regulatory services, libraries, etc.But there is ANOTHER "small problem."  Democracy.Since we live in a democracy, other people get to vote on how much the government takes of your time/money and where to spend it on.  And since it is human nature to be immoral, lazy, greedy, and parasitic, the majority will vote to take your money and spend it NOT on public goods that benefit everybody, but them.This, in it's more literal and linguistic definition can be called "legal theft."  But it goes by the leftist euphemisms of "income transfers" or "wealth redistribution."However, and let us be very clear and literal about this, this transfer of your time/money to other people with no compensation goes by another name - slavery.Whether you like to admit it or not, whether you'd like to ignore this fact or not (as it will raise your ire) you are a slave to other people in this country.  No different than the plantation slaves of the confederate South.  No different than the slaves of the Caribbean trade during the 1700's.  No different than the slaves of the Middle East (that academians and history revisionists seem to ignore).  The only difference is that instead of being kept chained and on a plantation, you are tethered by law (which is enforced with jail time and guns), which (ironically) makes for an even more productive slave.  You "think" you're "free" on account nobody is stopping you from going anywhere, but this serves to make you more productive, which generates for income for your slave masters.Of course not all of your time is confiscated by the government.  If they did that, then why work?  Why not become a modern day slave master who parasites off of the productive and just collect a government check?  But you are a slave to SOME LEVEL and the question is how much?Thankfully, ole Cappy here has been blessed with SAEG (TM), and can tell you precisely what percent of your life is spent as a slave.13 years.The math, again, is quite simple and thus literal and irrefutable.If you start working at 16 and retire at 65 that is a 49 year work history.  The state, federal, and local governments tax us at a rate around 36% (using government spending as a percentage of GDP).  However, not all of that money goes to public goods that you benefit from.  Truthfully, 75% of it is income transfers to other people, ie- your masters.  So if we take a 49 year work history, multiply it by .36, and multiply that by .75 you see that you spend13 yearsworking for other people.Now I know the leftist argument that is coming.  That this money goes to help "the poor," the "disadvantaged," the "under privileged," and "the children" and every other group of sops the left bribes with your money.  But even if I thought these groups of people were truly disadvantaged and deserved the income transfers, it doesn't change the relational fact that these people are parasitic.  And in them being parasitic, they are by default making you slaves to them for 13 years of your working life.The point I'm trying to make is not one of whether there should be a safety net or we should spend money on the poor.  It is to clearly identify and explain what is going on - that those who collect a government check are parasitic and should be THANKFUL for those who work extra to bail them out of their stupid ass life decisions support them.  They should be humbled that other people are sacrificing a percentage of their lives (13 years to be precise) so that they are shielded from the consequences of their mistakes.  They should be grateful so many millions of Americans are working damn well near a quarter of their working lives for others.Alas, because of human nature, the opposite is true.  These parasites are ungrateful, even entitled, demanding more and more, 100% incapable of humility, gratitude, humbleness, and thanks.  All they can see is that those who worked harder and didn't make decisions that required a parasitic existence have "more" than they do and instead of looking into the mirror and accepting responsibility, they merely vote in more.Many of you ask why I'm such a hard ass or such an "asshole" when it comes to helping out the poor.  I merely ask you why you aren't. 
Understanding Ownership 
On a run around one of my favorite routes, I ended up listening to a podcast from Bernard Chapin.  Uncie Bern had wandered into the discussion of whether the Nazi's were indeed socialist (which by most mathematical, economic, and political measurements were).  While one would think with the full name "The National Socialist German Workers Party" would leave little doubt, Hitler was a such a bad man that the left desperately has (and still needs to) paint him as a right winger (while still have heart palpitations for Mao, Stalin, and Che).  This has resulted in a painfully childish debate of semantics about who owned what, were the means of production owned by the state, did the state tell the corporations what to do, were they "corporatist," blabbity blah blah freaking blah.Alas, I believe it is high time to do away with semantics and discuss precisely what is "ownership" so that before we all get caught up in the minutiae and technicalities of ideologue-infested debate, we can let you, the individual, think for yourself as to whether or not the Nazi's were indeed socialist (not to mention, be able to identify who is and is not an advocate of socialism).First, one must ask "why do we own any assets" in the first place?Is it pride?  Is it power?  Is it consumption?It can be all of those things, but we have to delineate between a consumable good/asset and an investable asset.A consumable good (or asset) is precisely that.  It can be consumed. An apple.A bottle of scotch.A movie.A video game.A car.All of these things, sometimes immediately, some times over the course of years, are inevitably used up or "consumed" by the "consumer" and no longer serve any purpose or value.  They feed a person, comfort a person, make life convenient for a person, but in the end they are consumed.Contrast that with an investable asset, where that asset is not to be consumed (like a Milky Way bar) but rather employed in a process or business to generate INCOME aka PROFIT aka EARNINGS. The computer you use to run your company.The factory used to build widgets.Even the trucks (which can also be considered a consumable asset) is considered an investable asset as long as it is used in such a capacity.These assets are used to generate further earnings by which you can live off of and thus are considered "investments."  Alas, "assets" in this particular economic sense of the word typically imply there is some income generating potential of those assets and are what are traditionally referred to by communists as the "means of production."Now what the left and communists will do to "prove" the Nazi's were not socialist is point to the fact that under socialism it is the state the owns the means of production while under capitalism it is the private sector or individual who owns the means of production.  And since the Nazi state did NOT own Germany's corporations, but rather said corporations were still in private hands, the Nazi's=Capitalists=Ronald Reagan=White Males=Kill Them All. However, like most arguments of the left, they are disingenuous, deceiving, and intellectually dishonest. The reason why is that while "officially" under Nazi Germany corporations were largely in private hands, the state still effectively told them what to do, what to produce, and how much of it.  So sure, the deed to the plant had "Hans Fricktenstein" on it, and the deed to the factory had "Heinrich Gorsternstoppen" on it, but it was only in name.  The Nazi state controlled it, not the individual "owner," rendering "official ownership" moot.Of course, faux leftist intellectuals and libertarian conspiracy theorists will then pull out the term "corporatist." The leftists do this to throw you off track, while libertarian conspiracy theorists do this so they can use 50 cent words to fake intelligence.  But whatever name they call it, it's still the STATE that effectively controls and owns the factors of production.  Merely slapping "corporatist" on it does not change it's economic nature.However, thinly veiled and politically-incentived semantics aside, there is a more compelling, fundamental economic reason that ultimately governs what precisely is "socialist" vs. what precisely is "capitalist."  And it is not whose name is officially on the deed, nor even who effectively "controls" the assets.It's who owns the profits of these investable assets.You see, the ONLY reason people go into business is because they want to make a profit.  It's very cute and funny how naive college students, as well as their older (yet pathetically not wiser) professor counterparts think "profit" is some how evil or unnecessary.  When in reality NOT ONE THING in ANY economy would ever have been produced without the prospect for profit.  You go to work because you intend to earn more than the gas and car maintenance you expend working there.  I write posts and books because I intend to make money on them.  And Warren Buffett gives up his money when buying companies not for S's and G's, but because he wants the profits of the companies he's buying.  Thus, the real reason for assets even to be considered "investments" or "means of production" (and thus, sough after) is because of the profits they MAY potentially generate.Alas, ownership is not determined by the deed, nor even the dictates of what is to be produced by the state, but who receives the profits.At first, leftists and other ignorants of society will rush to point out "who receives the profits."  The evil rich people.  The illuminati.  The bilderberg groups.  "Big Oil."  "Big Pharma."  But there is ONE entity that that is a bigger shareholder than all the interconnected, multinational corporations and hedge funds combined.The state.You see, with a 36% federal corporate tax rate, combined with a ever so roughly 4% state tax rate, the rough average corporate tax rate is 40%.  This means your state and federal government combined are the single largest shareholder of US corporations. They did nothing to earn that money.  The states nor the federal government risked their own money in purchasing any investable asset.Even Barack Obama didn't build that.They merely through law declared that they are the default owner of 40% of all US corporations.Throw in dividend taxes and the statutory rate is 50% (arguments of effective rate duly noted). Ergo, the economic REALITY is that the United States is not an "evil greedy capitalist" nation like the left would have you believe, but a half owned, state entity where the government is the defacto 50% owner of all US corporations.Now, of course it is not only corporations and companies that produce all the economic production in the nation.  There are individuals, small businesses (who are not in the 50% tax range), and (as many leftists are no doubt spewing vehemently) just because the STATED tax rate is 50%, doesn't mean corporations pay that rate (the EFFECTIVE rate, sans dividends, is closer to 32%).But we all know that the government taxes these entities as well.  We have sales tax, property tax, personal income tax, gas tax, nearly everything is taxed.  So it is ALL forms of profit that are taxed one way or another.So how do we measure this, and thus define, whether a particular government or political party is "socialist" or not?Government spending as a percent of GDP.I've hit this one on the head before, but not from the angle that taxation is nothing more than a percent ownership in private ventures.  And while you may "own" your house, or may "own" your corporation, or may "own" your stocks, you only own the percentage that the government does not tax away.What is that percentage in the US?Well, it depends on the state, but on average 40%. When you combine state, federal, and local spending, the cumulative "state" is a default 40% shareholder in all American economic activity.  This is certainly not the totalitarian Soviet Union or today's North Korea, but it is also NOT the "evil, heartless, capitalist" nation the left successfully dupes the perennial idiots of our country into thinking it is paints it to be.  The larger point is not that the US is "40%" socialist.  Nor that a "communism-socialism-capitalism-anarchy" spectrum more aptly describes today's economies (although it does).  The key is to understand that it is ownership of PROFITS that determines the true ownership of the assets.  And that any debate that ignores this should be relegated to the societal garbage bin where it belongs - academia.Now, just ask yourself this question.What does a 40% socialist state say about who owns you and your life?That is for another post at another time.  
Why the Federal Reserve Ain't No "Jesus Christ" 
If there is a skill I have, it is taking incredibly complex and complicated things in the financial world and explaining it to normal, everyday people who had too healthy of social lives to major in economics.  And while today's post is one such article, it is one I had to sit down and think through, because I too had a simple question that I did not have the answer to.  Specifically;How is this all going to end?  Can the Federal Reserve just keep "QE-ing" the government out of its debt problems?  And what is going to happen to the Fed when all those toxic assets they've been buying up don't pay up?  Won't it go bankrupt too?  And if it does, what will happen?Thankfully, despite the complicated nature of central banking, it's something we can all understand.First we must look at the Fed for what it is.  A separate entity that is technically NOT part of the government, NOR is it a private corporation owned by the "Rothchilds" and Illuminati.  It is best described as an NGO that is chartered by congress to be the country's central bank.Second, we must look at the role it has most recently played that is OUTSIDE its traditional role of central banking.  Namely, playing the role of "Jesus Christ."You may laugh, but regular listeners to my podcast know I jokingly sing the tune "Christ the Lamb of God (who taketh away the sins of the world)" but substitute my own lyrics in it to fit it to the Federal Reseve:"Oooohhh Janet the Yellen of the FedWho taketh away the sins of the banking communityBaaailll out these banksters.Ooooohhh Janet the Yelley of the FedWho bails out the scum who bought McMansionsPrinnnnnt off more money"Blasphemous as that may be, it's 100% true.  The Federal Reserve has served as "Jesus Christ" like entity to wash away all the financial problems that were (and continue to be) created by various entities within our economy.  Specifically, all the horrible loans made during the financial crisis AND the federal government's insane deficit spending.  And you can see this, quite literally, on the balance sheet of the Federal Reserve:
I apologize in advance for the small font of the chart above, but I have highlighted the key figures that demonstrate the Fed's "Jesus" activity.In the RED are US government bonds that nobody else in their right mind would buy.  Remember, especially under Obama, the US federal government has ran the country's worst peacetime deficits.  Worse, that deficit spending was not on genuine investments that would produce the profits necessary to pay back the principal and interest on those bonds, but (frankly) just vote-buying from the parasitic, non-economic producing classes for the democrats (welfare, worthless education, WIC, etc.).  Because of this traditional investors who would lend to the US government (pensions, the Chinese, Arab nations, retirees etc,) had no interest in lending money to this effectively insolvent entity.  Therefore, the ONLY entity that would buy US government bonds was the Federal Reserve.  And in the 7 years following the financial crisis, the Federal Reserve has purchased (lent) roughly $2 trillion to the US government.  But before you go hating on Obama and the democrats, look at the GREEN.  The GREEN didn't even exist in 2007.  However, recklessly lending money just so they could make a commission on increasingly unprofitable mortgages, bankers and Wall Street drove the US economy, head first into the worst recession since the Great Depression.  And since they were at the effective "cardio vasculatory system" of the economy (the financial system is VERY much as vital to an economy just like your heart), they needed to be bailed out.  And so where you see:"Federal Agency and Government Sponsor Enterprise Mortgage Backed Securities"in English that means"Crappy mortgages nobody else in their right mind would buy that were created by the bankster scum of the Earth, who conveniently made a 2-5% commission on those deals, but we had to buy these things anyway otherwise the entire financial system would collapse."We could go on, but if you look at the BLUE square you see that the nature of the Federal Reserve has fundamentally changed.  It has gone from that of a central bank in 2007 to an effective "bailout machine" in 2014.  We bail out incompetent bankers, we bail out irresponsible borrowers, we bail out socialist politicians, and we bail out the parasitic classes that need government subsidies who vote for them (and if you'll permit this economist a minor prediction - you can bet you'll see "student loans" on the Federal Reserve's balance sheet within our lifetimes).Third, how does the Federal Reserve afford all this?Very simple, the Federal Reserve controls the US money supply and thus merely "prints off more money."  Of course, it doesn't literally print it off as they did in the Weimar Republic.  That would be too obvious, brash, and Zimbabwean.  They use the flashy euphemistic technique called "Quantitative Easing" wherein they merely digitally add more money to financial institutions' deposit accounts in exchange for their worthless mortgage backed securities nobody else wants.  But whether the money is digital recordings on bank accounts or actual pieces of paper in circulation, the effect is the same.  A booming money supply, going from $1.4 trillion before the crisis to $3.1 trillion today.
Now here is the point where normal people, and even economists get a twinge in the back of their head saying, "Hey, something's not right here."  Because whereas "Jesus Christ" presumably washed away everybody's sins, that's a religion.  Not the real world.  And just like physics has the conservation of mass law, economics also adheres to similar such mathematical laws.  In other words, we know there's no such thing as a free lunch.  A price has to be paid and somebody has to pay it, which leads us to our fourth point.Logic would suggest that it would be the Federal Reserve that pays the ultimate price.  It is a separate legal entity, and since it's been buying up all these worthless assets, like any other business it should go bankrupt.  Additionally, nobody really owns the Federal Reserve.  They actually DO have shareholders (who own an effective "preferred shares" in the entity which only entitle them to a 6% dividend while the remainder of Fed profits go to the Treasury), but based on the latest balance sheet of the Federal Reserve, they only have $57 billion in illiquid shares.  Hardly enough to cause a financial crisis in the US should the Fed "go bankrupt."However, here is where the "Jesusy Magic" occurs.  Since the Federal Reserve is not the government, nor is it the financial industry, it effectively becomes a "sink hole" of sorts that wipes away all of our debts.  All the federal government has to do is refuse to honor the bonds the Federal Reserve holds and all of the country's financial problems go away.  Matter of fact, we don't even need taxation.  We could theoretically just have the Federal Reserve lend money to the government ad infinitum and go bankrupt every year.  But for those of us on the righter side of the political spectrum, we know this can't be true.  There HAS TO be a price to this, and there is.Inflation.Since the Federal Reserve's currency is ACTUAL CURRENCY it spreads or "socializes" the costs or "sins" of society by debasing our US dollars.  Now, at this point in time, if you listen very quietly, you will hear Paul Krugman and a bunch of other Keynesian economists nearly going into cardiac arrest as they trip over themselves to rush and point out there is no inflation (don't hurt yourself Paul, I'll do it for you here):
And they'd be right.  According to the CPI there has been effectively no inflation.  But there are two problems.One, I'm outright accusing them of telling a half-truth, because (if they're economists) they know this low level of inflation, IN SPITE OF A NEAR TRIPLING OF THE MONEY SUPPLY, is due to a TANKING of the "velocity of money."

Without boring the reader, the velocity of money is the rate at which a dollar is re-spent.  So you can theoretically have a low money supply, but if people keep spending (either because of faith in the future or a market bubble) instead of saving, you can trigger inflation still.  However, the opposite is happening today, and the reasons are (I claim) the total disheartening and destructive effects socialist policies (primarily under Obama) has had on investors, purchasers, innovators, entrepreneurs, businessmen and other productive members of society.  The constant assail and assault against "the rich," "corporations," "success," and the always-available evil and hated "white males" has thrown sand into America's most productive economic engines, tanking faith and hope in the future, and thus the velocity of money.  And though this has slowed economic growth considerably, this grants the Federal Reserve's "Jesus Strategy" a reprieve in that their money printing has not caused inflation.The second problem in claiming there's no inflation is that it's simply false.  While the CPI does measure what somebody is going to face in terms of prices at the gas pump or the grocery store, gas and groceries are NOT the largest items on people's personal budgets.HousingInvestmentsandEducation areAnd if you look at these items, they have skyrocketed.Housing, though nowhere near it's bubbly peak in 2006, is starting to re-inflate again driving both housing prices and rents up.  Using the Price-to-Rents ratio, we can see that Federal Reserve money starting to take its toll on the American public, being more costly than any point in recorded time BAR the housing bubble of 2006:

Investments the same.  If you would like to retire, tough.  Stock prices are LAUGHABLY overvalued.  Largely in part due to the trillions in Baby Boomer retirement money that has mindlessly flooded the market since 1978 through their 401k's and IRA's, but more recently through (once again) Federal Reserve money.Once banks unload their worthless toxic assets on the Fed for an overinflated price, they have to do something with that money.  But since the corporate sector is demoralized by the socialist trend of the US, there's no economic growth and thus no demand by businesses to borrow it.  This is why the majority of that money does NOT go into new investments, plant, and companies (which would create jobs by the way), but instead merely goes into the stock market either for repurchasing their own shares or taking a position in stocks and bonds to "hedge against inflation."  This has resulted in over a trillion dollars (in this year ALONE) of buy backs.  But it has also made stocks simply unaffordable to anybody who wishes to retire.  This is more than amply displayed in the S&P 500's PE ratio and dividend yield, which suggests stocks are historically overvalued by about 33%.Ironically, however, people are happy when the stock market goes up.  Which would be akin to being happy that the price of gas "jump to $6 a gallon."  Regardless, this is proof positive the Federal Reserve funny money is NOT sitting stagnant in some bank's digital account, but is seeping into sectors of the economy, causing real and serious inflation, and lowering our purchasing power.And finally, student tuition.It is no coincidence inflation is appearing where there is federal government money and intervention.  Housing is backed up by Sallie Mae and Freddie Mac.  The stock market is being inflated by Federal Reserve policy and US government retirement policy.  And now with Pell grants, Stafford loans, etc., government money is (and has been) flooding into the higher education system.  This flood of money, without an increase in either the volume or QUALITY of education, has resulted in skyrocketing tuition costs:

Of course, student tuition, though the single largest expense of nearly every person under 30, is not considered in the CPI.  But again, that doesn't mean those student debts and $300 textbooks aren't real.  In REALITY students are also paying the tax of inflation to finance the Federal Reserve's "Jesus Bail Out Strategy."As you no doubt likely surmised, you knew there was a price to pay for all this central banking hanky panky.  The only problem is you couldn't put your finger on it because of the complexities and complications of central banking, the US' Federal Reserve system, and the machinations of "Quantitative Easing."  But when you strip it all away, it sadly is very simple.  It's just printing off more money.I don't care how many doctorates in economics they have working for the Fed.  I don't care how many of them came from the Ivy League.  And I don't care how many Clark or Nobel prize participation trophies medals are awarded.  The majority of economists are not economists as much as they are overly-degreed-laden charlatans who make things "more complicated than they are" to hide what is their simplistic, childish, and highly flawed understanding of economics.To quote Holly Gennero, "You're nothing but a common thief" and you "economists" at the Fed, and the majority of the economics profession should be ashamed of yourselves. 
The Economics of Waifu 
The world, I have concluded, will never cease to amaze me.  And thus, once you get to that point you'll say, "nothing shocks me anymore."  And so once again ole Cappy went head long, cluelessly into a whole new world where he learned about "Waifu."If you don't know what "Waifu" is, that's alright.  It means you're normal and frankly avoided a sad aspect of humanity.  But while it originally meant "favorite female Japanese anime character," (and there's nothing wrong with that) it has also morphed in some circles to mean where men have actually formed imaginary relationships with these fictitious characters, some times even marrying them.   This not only explains the inside joke on Archer where Krieger has a pink-haired hologram for a girlfriend, but also explains the existence of "Waifu dolls/pillows."My initial reaction to all of this was "thank god I'm dying in 30 years," but that annoying part of my brain dedicated to economics wouldn't turn off.  It just "had to" do some research, and look into what possible incentives existed for this to even be a thing.  And the observations were very interesting.First, economically speaking, the only way a boy/man would choose to date/court/marry a fictional girl instead of a real one is because the costs required to get a real one is just too high.  At first you may scoff at this (and I surely did), but upon running some numbers and thinking about, it IS a very expensive endeavor.  If you think back to when you hit puberty on, precisely how much have you spent in terms ofTimeMoneyLaborEffortMentalityStressStrifeFearRegretand plain ole other sources of calories of energy dealing with women?My figures are of course HIGHLY subjective and up for debate, but if you take into consideration direct financial expenses, mental costs, and opportunity costs, the total costs to find a wife ever so roughly hover around $720,000.  Enough for most single people to retire on.

These costs are not insignificant, and only certainly higher for less social or good looking men who (likely) populate the "Waifu Community."  So even though they are very UNLIKELY to run and crunch the numbers I did above, intuitively their brain does some kind of cost benefit analysis and concludes it's not worth the $700,000+ in life expense to chase after a real girl.  Not entirely irrational.However, enter in the concept of substitute and inferior goods.Just because a young man decides it's not worth the total expense to get a girl in the real world, doesn't mean he can't (albeit delusionally) satisfy some of his romantic desires with non-human substitute goods.  Sex can be more than adequately (though inferiorly) be replaced with porn.  A loving relationship can be replaced with one's imagination (think Wilson in "Castaway").  And a marriage or confirmation of a relationship can be replaced by fake ceremony where you marry a video game character (or in the case of an increasing # of American women, marrying yourself).  And so instead of becoming a hermit or a virgin "MGTOW" where you have no relationship with women, some men escape into a fantasy world where they get themselves a Waifu.   Now naturally everybody's mind is focusing on the delusional aspect of this mentality.  However, I want to again reiterate and refocus our attention to the economic aspect of this.  Whether you agree with them or not, whether you find them sane or not, they are at least being RATIONAL to a certain extent.  And we can't deny the fact that they've made the conscious choice to choose a fake girlfriend over a real one.  But the fact ANYBODY is making this choice consciously speaks volumes as to the price and costs of finding a real woman today.Consider not just the various financial, time, labor, and opportunity costs associated with finding a quality real world girl.  Consider the lack of drama and the mental pain associated with having an "imaginary girlfriend."  Not only do you save yourself $700,000 in explicit and implicit costs, you also save yourself;Being stood upBeing shot down DramaTemper tantrumsGirls cheating on youGirls leading you on Bi-polar freaksFeminismBlue ballsand every other form of scourge and fire-laden hurdles you and every other man had to jump through during his teens and 20's.Additionally, though it isn't real and it IS delusional, imagine what nice, kind, compliant, and supporting personalities Waifu's have.  She isn't a single mom.  She isn't demanding you gotta do this and that.  She isn't going to cheat on you.  She's always happy to see you.  She's PRECISELY at your EXACT same intelligence level (because she is you), etc. etc.  It's a trait the inferior good has that is superior to the real thing.  So when you consider all these factors through the lens of a (likely) unattractive male, you can start to see why they choose to be delusional instead of live in the real world.The sad point I'm trying to make is that if men are willing to be irrational in the real world by choosing to live in a delusional one, the economics of having a Waifu make complete sense.  What's even sadder, however, is that the cost differential between having a real girlfriend and a fake one is so huge in the real world, the concept of having a Waifu (or marrying yourself in women's cases) is actually becoming a real thing.              
 
There Is No Such Thing as "Market Failure" 
"Whatever happens, happens."
         -Spike Spiegel 
"Market failure" (depending on which economist you ask on which day) is when the market "fails" to provide the optimal outcome for society.  It is NOT at its peak efficiency, NOT delivering the most utility to the people, NOT delivering its maximum goods and services, and therefore is failing the population.This then gives rise to the call for (wait for it!) "government intervention."You see, with this magic medicine called "government intervention" we can repair the market, making it efficient once again.  So we lower interest rates here, jack up taxes there, perhaps regulate or deregulate an industry (again depending on which economist you ask and what time zone he's in), and POOF!  All better.Historical examples of market failure are:The Bank Panic of 1907The Great DepressionThe Stagflation Days of the 70's The Dotcom Bubble andThe Housing BubbleThose gosh darn stubborn economies of those times just weren't behaving like they were supposed to damnit!  And by gum, the federal government had to go in there and set things right either through inventing a central bank, or implementing the New Deal, price controls, massive expansionary fiscal policy, or good ole fashioned trillion dollar bailouts.Immediately, leftists, socialists, internventionists, Keynesians, and other varied sorts of parasites are quick to point out the recovery that invariably ensued after these market failures.  And if you were to dare ask "well, what if we just left the market alone" they all hold hands and sing in a cappella that old, standby classic tune "It Would Have Been Worse If We Did Nothing."But while we can debate (impossibly) about whether or not intervention in these various financial crises accelerated recovery and remedied "market failure," I want to pose a different argument that is much less theoretical, much more logical, and simply one of definition.  And that is calling into question if there can even be a thing called "market failure."While true theoretical economists can debate about the technical definition of it, the operational definition of market failure, the one we have witnessed in the real world, has been one not of "a non-optimal use of resources," but rather "the government should prevent bad things."  Great Depression?FDR will blow billions (by today's standards trillions) on the New Deal.Inflation?Nixon will just simply institute "price controls!"  See, all better now!Great recession?Bush will bail out the banks, while Obama will piss away thrice that amount on poor unproductive people.But the problem in having the government "just prevent bad things" is that it is antithetical to a free market.  The nanosecond the government intervenes the market is no longer a market, but a hybrid, that neither operates nor behaves as it normally would if it were completely void of government interference.  Ergo, if the government is constantly intervening, we never get around to finding out if there is such a thing as market failure or that markets can, and will, inevitably heal themselves no matter how severe the "failure."The real issue, however, is not whether governments should intervene to prevent "bad things from happening."  It's an issue of pain avoidance and speed.Very much like slowly peeling versus rapidly ripping off the bandaid, most humans are cowards and fear the immense and immediate pain of the rip.  Therefore they prefer "government intervention" in the form of taking the time to gently and meticulously peel the bandaid away.  However, this only delays the inevitable, amortizing the pain over a much longer time period than had you just ripped the bandaid off.  But in either case, the bandaid would have come off and you would have gone out to play as you normally would anyway.Regardless, the exact same scenario played out with the Great Recession.We COULD HAVE let markets work their magic.  CRUSH the bankster scum that deserved to have their fortunes and careers destroyed.  Let the banks fail teaching them a lesson they'd at least remember for a generation.  Have the financial system go into disarray, and send the economy into a much deeper and harsher recession than we endured.But prices would have dropped rapidly.Assets would have become cheaper.Labor much cheaper as well.And soon it would be profitable once again to start ventures, business, companies anew, bringing about a quick end to the economic recession.Instead (again, the cowards that we Americans have become) wanted to believe the lies and poppycock of an "intelligent affirmative action hire Harvard man" who assured us he would pull the bainaid off slowly, and gently, and if there was going to be any pain it would be those rat bastard rich people.  And so, now 7 years later (of still-significant economic pain mind you) we are FINALLY getting back to (what can at best be charitably called) "normal" in terms of unemployment, jobs, economic growth, and income....A place we could have been at 6 years ago had we just bit the bullet.The point is not one of whether Barack Obama's, FDR's, Bush's, Nixon's, or any other presidents' fiscal policies were correct.  The point is that if left alone, the economy would have recovered just fine without government interference. Ergo, "market failure" does not really exist.  But our fear of paying the full price for our economic sins, and our naivety to think politicians can some how "wash them away" does.  And that, my fine young junior, deputy, aspiring, official, or otherwise economists, is the true definition of "market failure."                            
 
Fed Interest Rates Have No Effect on the Economy 
Since the day you were born and your parents put an economics textbook in your hand, it was just "known" that lowering interest rates helps boost the economy.  Specifically, "the interest rate" the Federal Reserve controls (also called the Federal Funds Rate) was our monetary policy savior in case the economy looked like it was going to go into recession.  Ergo, in combination with expansionary fiscal policy, "lowering the interest rate" would help put people back to work and defeat the hated "business cycle" forever.Or maybe not.For before I hop in my car and head out to Seattle, I decided to do a little research in aiming to make some pre-made very Cappy economic posts.  And one thing I wanted to see was if the federal funds rate had ANY correlation or effect on economic growth.It does not:

This concludes your pre-made Very Cappy post of the day. 
Accounting for Inflation as a Tax 
I will say it again for the cheap seats, it doesn't matter how much money a country has.  It's how much stuff it can produce.  This is the beginning lesson I would always start my economics class with because not only does it simplify economics incredibly well, but it's true.  It is the stuff your country produces that determines its economic success, not the amount of money it prints.However, an interesting, but simple thought crossed my mind.  Why haven't we ever incorporated inflation into the federal tax rate?  The money IS controlled by the government/fed and since stuff is the only thing that matters then inflation SHOULD DEFINITELY be considered when attempting to calculate one's level of taxation.Of course we need to define things (so leftists can disagree with semantics instead of grow a spine and deal with the argument) but I think you'll find the results interesting and of course enraging.First the TRUEST measure of the overall tax rate of a country is taking TOTAL government spending at ALL levels of government (state, federal and local) and then dividing it by the country's total economic production, GDP.  Now leftists will argument it should be REVENUE as a percent of GDP because people don't pay the full effective rate at which governments spend.  We borrow money from other people and in running these deficits we provide an effective lower rate of taxation.Which is true....for now.Because in the end that debt has to be paid back with either:1.  Future taxation or2.  Printing off money/inflated away (which again is nothing more than indirect taxation)So true and intellectually honest economists look at what has to be paid, now and into the future, to see what the real rate of taxation is.Second, there is not a lot of data about total government spending (including both federal, state and local) that goes back significantly to provide a decent historical look. Ergo, I used only federal data which goes back to 1960.  Still, if you want to be ever so rough about it, tack on another 15% GDP for state and local (47% for California and New York) and you'll get a rough proxy of total tax rates when we include the diluting effects of inflation on our currency.Finally, what is "inflation?"  If you're a Keynesian you (once again) stumble over yourself to cite the CPI.  But if you're a technical person you would look at the money supply as any increase in the numbers of dollars, by definition dilutes those already in currency lessening their purchasing power (arguments about what is sitting in banks vaults as capital and not currently in circulation in the larger economy duly noted).Regardless, when you do the math looking at the annual increase in the M2 money supply (orange) and add it on top of the federal tax rate as a percentage of GDP (blue) the results are quite interesting. 
When "inflation is considered you can see it is at times a VERY significant tax, sometimes being even more costly that state/local taxes.  The oil embargo/inflation days of the 70's and early 80's are very noticeable as well as the jump in the money supply during the financial crisis.  And when you tack on the roughly 15% state and local tax, you're looking at a total government take of about 42%-45%.Thankfully, the inflation tax (like debt) is a deferred tax that future generations will get to deal with.  The US is once again VERY lucky to be the world's reserve currency and we're also very lucky that pretty much any other significantly sized economy is in worse shape that we are.  This makes the US dollar a "safe haven" for people who are not so much worried about the value of a dollar, but just want a currency perceived to be more stable than their own.  This effectively "ships" US dollars overseas where they can no longer cause inflation in our domestic economy and why is your Apple product still costs as cheap as it does.But don't worry, either through future taxation or inflation, the aforementioned rates above WILL be paid, and quadruply so by future generations who were nearly completely innocent.
 










FINANCE, CAREER, AND ENTREPRENEURSHIP
 












 
"So You Just Walked Off the Job???" 
I don't know why it popped into my mind, but I remembered interviewing about a year back for a credit analyst position.  It was a hiring manager/HR ditz duo combo interview.  The hiring manager was asking pertinent questions and answering my pertinent questions in return.  It became very clear I knew more about underwriting and analysis when he didn't know what market-inference pricing was (a technique I use to value collateral), resulting in essentially me giving him a lesson.  Intermittently we were interrupted by the HR ditz with one of her canned questions.But two stood out, not because of her questions, but because of my answers.The first was "so you spent a pretty short stint at bank X.  Why such a short stint?"I answered truthfully:"They were corrupt, lending money to friends and cronies, and anytime I did any kind of analysis they disregarded it and wanted me to change the figures."She then asked, "So did you give them two weeks notice.""Nope, I just up and left."She was shocked.  You could hear it in her voice,"So you JUST WALKED OFF THE JOB!!!???" She literally couldn't believe somebody would have the audacity to just give their employer the proverbial bird and leave without notice.  It was almost as if she said, "So you just BEAT YOUR CHILDREN!!!???"  Never mind I might have had good reason to. Never mind it is more likely employers are more abusive and unjust than the employees.  No, I violated a cardinal rule.  I didn't give my employer 2 weeks notice.The second question that she asked was about my book."So I see you wrote a book," referring to "Behind the Housing Crash."I said "yes, I did.""So what's it about?""It's an expose of all the corrupt dealing and banking practices I saw and endured while working at various community banks in Minnesota."Thinking she had me she said, "So why didn't you put this on your resume!?" proving she had Google-Stalked me.I said, "It is on my resume.  If you look on the second page at the bottom, it should be noted there." proving she hadn't done her job.Soon enough the hiring manager piped in, "Actually, he did list it.  It's right here."And then the money-shot quote, "But you wrote a book!"I had to laugh inside because I wanted to say, "Yeah, my god!  People writing books!  Next thing you know people might start READING BOOKS!!! GASP!!!"Again, I don't know why the thought popped into my mind this morning, but it did remind me that in the back recesses of my mind a theory or thought is starting to form.  A theory that goes something like this:Two factors are giving employers and corporations the upper hand when it comes to the labor market.  One, the fact the labor market sucks right now with record high unemployment gives employers the negotiating edge.  Additionally the sheer length of time the average person is unemployed now makes these people even more desperate, giving employers an additional advantage.  Two, progressive credentialism has resulted in a wicked spiral.  Because everybody has college degrees, people now must get additional certifications in order to be the better candidate among their peers.  So people then pursue masters degrees.  The problem is that everybody is pursing masters degrees.  And so people pursue extra credentials or certifications.  The problem is everybody is pursuing additional certifications, and so on and so on.  In the end nearly everybody is overqualified and overeducated for most jobs.  So to outshine other candidates job hunters resort to softer skills,namely ass kissing and brown-nosing.  Impeccably sharp suits, spending time networking and attending job fairs, the job hunter is so desperate they'll spend more time trying to find a job than actually working.Now, analogize this to a market where you have a score of suitors pursuing one woman.  The male suitors are the job hunters and the sole woman is the job.  What is going to happen to that woman's psychology when day after day she is asked out, pursued, inquired about and just plain lavished with attention?  Furthermore, what is gong to happen to her psychology when these men become more and more desperate resorting to tactics like flowers, chocolates, them wearing stupidly loud shirts?  100 to 1 she's going to develop and ego and an attitude.  She's going to become arrogant and cocky and instead of looking for what she really needs (a man) she's going to nit pick irrelevant things (I don't like how his nails are done.  I don't like his shoes, etc.).And it's the same with employers.Because of progressive credentialism and all the extra labor in the market, employers are adopting a very arrogant and cocky attitude.  So arrogrant and cocky the psychological torment you'd have to go through working the job would plain not be worth it (just like dating the entitlement princess).  And we already see evidence of employers getting this attitude.YOU (GASP!!!) WROTE A BOOK!!!!???YOU (GASP!!!) WALKED OFF A JOB!!!!?By the way where is your Facebook password, I want it.  And no you can't have mine.Oh, and we're going to Google-Stalk you.And we want to run a credit check on you, but you can't request the same of us.I even recall an investment bank requiring your ACT and SAT scoresIt is also no coincidence HR is once again dominated by women.  The skills women develop nitpicking minor infractions among romantic suitors is the precise exact same skills they use to nitpick infractions against job applicants.  Of course, it is no surprise their success in picking qualified romantic suitors is the same as picking qualified job applicants.  There is no data out there to prove it, but nearly EVERY HR lady I've personally know has been divorced, had dating problems, or at minimum had some kind of mental problem.  Sure there were a handful of relatively stable women, but the majority were not.  And I'm willing to bet their woefully inadequate ability to judge character when choosing men is equally woefully inadequate when judging job applicants (which we do have actual data for from MErcer, which shows a r-square of .14 between HR questions and actual job performance).  This should not be surprising when instead of asking questions about accounting, valuation techniques, chemical processes, and HR ditz can only assess things like:"I don't like his hair.""He didn't answer 'if you could be an animal, which animal would it be and why' question to my satisfaction.""Did you see her shoes!?  OMG!  Hideous!"Not to belabor the HR angle, the larger point is that it is becoming very obvious corporations are developing a psychosis of their own.  It's almost as if they're becoming sentient even though they're organizations.  An entitlement princess mentality is developing which makes the proposition of working for them not worth the risk of spending 20 years of your life getting educated, certified, qualified, licensed and CPE'd to death, only to have a job where your psychologically abused.And just like men are boycotting women, so too I believe employees will boycott abusive employers. 
The Economics of Renting Sports Cars 
Normally I am very frugal.  Key to enjoying the decline is to participate in Minimalism so that you are free from any employer and what little money you do make can go much further.  So how do you rationalize renting a sports car?The key is to realize that Minimalism does not mean "starvation."  You don't want to spend so little that you never treat yourself to anything and therefore prohibit yourself from enjoying the decline.  And renting a sport car, though it may seem unnecessarily frivolous, is a perfect and "must-do-once" example of treating yourself.Understand that it IS stupid to buy a sports car.  If you think about it the vast majority of your driving will fall under "errands," "work," or "transportation."  You're either picking something up, going to work, or driving to a particular destination, say on "vacation."  A sports car achieves all these objectives, but at an incredible price.  A cheap econo-car will suffice just as well and nobody will care nor expect you to be doing such things "in style."However, there are instances where a sports car is called for.  A hot date, a high end event, a big party (wedding for example, etc.).  Instances and events where, very similarly, you would wear a tux, don a suit, or get a new dress.  But since these events are so rare, it is better to rent the sports car than own.THere are other advantages to renting a sports car instead of owning.  First, insurance, maintenance, is a mere fraction of what it would be if you owned it.  It is very similar to what we refer to in banking as the "Three F's. - if it floats, flies, of f%cks, rent it."  Technically sports cars do none of the three, but is closely related to a boat in the infrequency use is called for.  Second, once you buy a sports car (say a Corvette) you are committed to that one car.  YOu get to sample no others and life is too short for that.  Finally, it's not like you can constantly push the sports car to its limit.  One of the biggest drawbacks of the Challenger was being able to drive around 170 MPH, but effectively being forced not to because it would be foolish - cops would be pulling me over left and right.So the next time you are at the car rental joint and the situation calls for it, upgrade to the sports car of your choice.  Life is too short not to.  
How an 18 Year Old Can Be Better Off Than Most 40 Year Olds Today 
When you cut wood (with a chainsaw) it's pretty much pointless to be trying to listen to an MP3 player.  You can't hear it and the wires just get in the way.  You want to be safe so unnecessary equipment (scarf, headphones, etc) is just something to "not do" when chainsawing.  This leaves your brain to think and just like hiking or long distance motorcycle rides, I have come up with the occasional epiphany cutting wood, and yesterday was just such an example.I was thinking about "my generation" and realized that most us late 30/early 40 somethings:

Do not have a positive net worth
Are in debt
Are working jobs we were capable of back in our 20's
Do not have significant retirement savings 
Have children we can't afford
And are simply treading water financially

The reason for this is the reason for all financial and economics problems - debt.Despite going to college 15 years ago most 40 year olds still have student loans or are "just now" paying them off.  Most people in my generation also thought buying "cool cars" was a brilliant idea and insist on having new cars (a habit developed and held over from middle school where you piss away money on stupid sh!t).  And then most of my generation also has credit card debt.  Not the credit card debt you pay off every month.Oh no no no.No, we use those 24% interest rate credit cards for long term financing of the crap we don't need, but must have.  (But it's alright, learning compounding and exponential functions in the 5th grade was for "squares" and so what we don't know won't hurt us!)Add it all up together and you have somebody who's technically been an "adult" for 2 decades, but is also worse off when they started at the age of 18.So how can an 18 year old avoid this fate?Simple.  You just don't go into debt.The hurdle is so low (if you care to "beat" your 40 year old counterpart) that you just need to avoid borrowing money and you will be in better financial shape than your average 40 year old.I know for the younger kids out there, this seems crazy, but it it's true.  Yes, you may view a 40 year old as "old" or "wise" or "experienced."  And yes you may say to yourself (as I did when I was 18),"Wow, you know.  40 year olds sure have their act together!  They're REAL adults!  I better listen to them!"But the truth is they no more intelligent or experience than you are, let alone when they were 18.  So it is here you can do yourself a HUGE favor and learn from the mistakes of others.First (BOYS!), don't be a moron and buy a car you can't afford.  Forget crippling your financial future by taking on student loans, a car is even worse.  It's not an investment, it goes down in value.  And the truth is at the age of 18 using a car as a means to "get chicks" is a losing proposition.  The reason why is if you are going to play that game, you are going up against men with REAL cars.  Brand new Beemers.  Brand new Mercedes.  And men with checkbooks that can buy and sell you.  Girls who also play this game KNOW THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN A 2012 MERCEDES and a 2013 MERCEDES.  And will certainly not be impressed with your pimped out Honda Civic with "sweet" fins. Second, don't be a moron and go to college if the price is too high relative to the earnings potential you will have after you graduate.  In other words don't major in a stupid subject.  If you go to school, graduate at 22 and you STILL HAVEN'T PAID OFF YOUR LOANS 18 YEARS LATER, you majored in something stupid and something that could have been taught at the library for free.  It OBVIOUSLY didn't generate the earnings that would rationalize the $50,000 in tuition and 4 (or 6 or 8) years of your youth.  And if you say,"You know, college isn't all about the money.  It's about becoming a well-rounded person"please find a sledge hammer and hit yourself in the head repeatedly.Third (GIRLS), do not buy trinkets and crap that have no functional value.  If you're going to get a credit card and buy things, buy things like gas, utility bills, electornics, etc.  Also, how many of your mother's dresses do you borrow over the course of a year from when she went to high school?  Oh "0?"  Oh, that's right, because fashion for women is nothing but a scam for you to blow away your money on something that is going to be "obsolete" or "out of style" next year.  Instead of trying to keep up with the fads, how about your have your wardrobe be "timeless?"  Notice the pictures and fashion below are not from the most recent issue of "Glamour"
Regardless, "shopping" is not an activity or a hobby you do for fun.  "Spending money" is not something you should "look forward to doing" or should call up your friends and participate in.  It should be practical and functional, serving your needs.  Merely acquiring crap on a credit card only serves to enslave you later in life.Finally, eliminate your rent or mortgage as much as possible. 10 years ago I would have said "independence" is the most important characteristic and trait of a young person, commanding younger people to move out of the house as quickly as possible.  Now, forget it. Stay at home as long as you can.  Live off of your parents as long as possible.  Save as much money as possible.  And then, when your parents finally kick you out, find the cheapest place to rent possible.  Realize the less stuff you have, the smaller an apartment you need.  And if you insist on buying a house, again, find only what you need.If you do these four simple things (all of which fall under the umbrella of "avoiding debt" aka "spend less than you make") you will be in better financial shape than most 40 year olds.  And not only will you be in better financial shape, you'll not have suffered wasting 4-8 years of your youth on a worthless degree, "scrambling climb the corporate ladder," let alone suffer the humiliation of filing for bankruptcy. This has been a PSA from Cappy Cap.  
The Sad State of Corporate America's Leadership 
I do:"The Facebook""The Twitter"and "The Blog" I draw the line at "Linkedin."This is not to offend those of you who sent me "Linkedin" requests and like to have that fancy "badge" or "linkedin pictograph" made larger and more ornate signifying you're "linkedin-ness."  I just hands down refuse to do it because after joining it I realized what it was.  Another form of that hated and loathed and ULTIMATELY zero-economic-production value activity - networking.I refuse to network intentionally because even at college I knew it was bullshit.Yes, yes, I know, I know, business is all about "who you know" not "what you know" and rain-makers can make or break a company based on networking.  But I plain do not have the evil, let alone patience to sit there in networking event after networking event, with a fake smile on my face, acting like I give a crap about the people around me, all in the hopes of meeting that one person with a morsel of business, and magically having more charisma and charm than anybody else to win that tidbit of business.  Oh, and the fact everybody else is doing the exact same thing AND EVERYBODY KNOWS EVERYBODY KNOWS THIS FACT makes the whole thing the most hypocritical and fake exercise in the history of humanity.I'm sorry, I have a soul, not to mention a life to live.But what is really sad is not so much the futility and fakeness of networking, but that networking plays such a prominent role in "corporate strategy."  The fact something so fake, so unproductive, so labor-wasting and just outright deceitful is employed as a legitimate business tactic is testament to the sad state of corporate America, its lack of leadership and it's lack of future prospects.  But after thinking about it, I realized something else. "Networking" is (as far as I can tell) one of only four major "strategies" American business leaders seem able to employ and pursue today, and further testifies to the sad state of corporate America.  These four strategies are:1.  Networking and Social Networking2.  Foreign Sales3.  "Going Green"/CSR4.  Rent seeking/lobbyingNetworking I've already gone over.  Not a cent of genuine economic production or wealth is produced by it.  And while corporate cogs will slave away at the art, in the end you get a dire and disasterous "black swan event" because of what I like to consider an "inbreeding effect."  Since you are hired, promoted, and advanced not on production, innovation or bold leadership, but rather you're ability to get along, kiss ass and "network," the corporate environment becomes a sort of "super-refinery" that refines and purifies employees into "super networkers" and "super ass kissers."  And instead of focusing on new and improved ways to increase profits, people are instead constantly pitted up against a perpetually stronger and stronger strain of conformist, SWPL, uber-soldat employees.  Making matters worse is the unemployment rate.  Most anybody can do the job, so the focus or onus is put on a person's intangible brown nosing..errr...."people/soft skills."  This means only the most purified extract of networker/ass-kisser/yes-man remain employed which only creates a spiraling effect, making the corporate environment that much more potent, purified and refined.  Soon, in theory, you will have a corporate slave class incapable of independent thought, leadership, and innovation...oh wait, you already do.Foreign sales is another defeatist strategy employed by corporations.  Though legitimate (you should be targeting overseas markets) it does nothing to revolutionize or reinvent your business model or product.  It's simply doing the same thing over and over, but in a foreign land.  While US corporate sales overseas has remained steady around 46%, their foreign profits (as measured by tax rolls), however, have been increasing (from 45% to 61%) meaning they're likely to expand overseas, not here in the US."Going Green" and the whole Corporate Social Responsibility BS.Do I even have to explain this?It's a fad.  Not one corporate executive believes in this veritable religion.  But, unfortunately, millions of brainwashable sheeple do.  And thus, to get suckers to part with their precious dollars, all corporations have to do is parade false and bogus "green credentials" and lie right to your face about how they're "going green" and you morons are stupid enough to buy it.  And even if they aren't lying and are going green, you're still a fool to pay a 40% premium, 20% of which is just additional mark up.  A REAL corporate strategy would be to go "black" focusing only on profit and priding the company on focusing only on profit purposely and proudly ignoring their "carbon foot print."  But that would take some cajones, leadership, and the courage to point out the emperor has no clothes.  Regardless, the fact corporations throw so much resources and weight into the "CSR" efforts only shows how few new and legitimate business ideas they have.And finally, rent seeking or lobbying.  I believe by the time you are willing to waste your shareholders' monies on bogus ad campaigns about going green and other such poppycock, it's only a fraction of an arcsecond of a degree to just go full out immoral and evil and bribe politicians to vote against the best interests of the people so your firm can get favorable treatment.  I love how GE is forcing us all to use lightbulbs we don't want.  I love how GM and the unions are getting pie in the sky retirement plans they should have never had.  And I love how practically ALL US solar companies were nothing more than fronts to have well-connected cronies play "make believe businessman" where they paid themselves fat salaries at the taxpayer's dime, all while never having an ounce of intention to produce a profit.  Again, my distrust of the public sector is no secret.  I still to this day believe it is hands down the single largest threat to the country and the future of freedom.  But the private sector is in just as bad of shape, corrupted and dysfunctional.  But what makes this worse, if not, dire for the country is that EVERYTHING, including government revenue, MUST COME FROM THE PRIVATE SECTOR.  There is nothing the government can do to create economic production, that all hails from the private sector.  And since and our private sector has become so lame and desperate that it employs strategies like rent seeking, lobbying, networking, "Linkedin," and "going green" you can expect no solution to the country's financial and economic problems.  Enjoy the decline!  
Why You Should Aspire to be a Security Guard 
If I had stayed out of banking when I originally intended to, I would have had more years experience as a security guard than I would in banking.  The reason why is that my first job in college was as a campus cop which then predispositioned me for future security work.  Sure enough if I needed any extra cash I would work a night shift or go part time.  Also, security work gave me options, thus any time a boss got lippy, I was misled about a job's duties, or there was just a good ole fashioned market melt down I could tell the boss to pound sand and take off.However, while most people look at security guards as one of the lowliest of "professions" truth is it's the best damn job you can have.The reason is simple - the job allows you to work on you.Understand that the vast majority (if not all) corporate wage slave jobs require your time to be completely consumed and preoccupied.  And more often than not that time is consumed with a mentally boring and mundane task.  And even if it isn't, the culture is such that you still have to "act busy," which is even more mind-numbing than actual work.  In the end, yes you do have a job, but your brain is completely and 100% occupied doing boring work that advances some other person or company.However, with security work it is different.First, your job is to merely be present.  Not to track down the bad guys.  Not to do detective work.  Not to be a wanna be cop.  You merely sit at your station or desk, make an hourly patrol, and then return to your desk.  The reason why is the big secret in the security industry.  You really aren't paid to protect, you're paid because having a uniformed person on the premises gets that company or client a decrease in their insurance costs.  A decrease that MORE than compensates them for the $9/hour they're paying you.Second, since you aren't supposed to be doing anything other than merely existing most security companies allow you to do some other work.  In other words, there is no expectation you need to be constantly occupied all the time.  Matter of fact, it's expected you'll bring a book, study, bring a laptop or whatever.  Some security companies and some security gigs won't allow for this (for example body guarding some socialite at a night club) and these are not the gigs I'm talking about.  But the majority of security work is sitting at some corporate campus, twiddling your thumbs, killing time.Third, the caliber of the average security guard is crap.  Absenteeism is a huge problem, drugs another, and nutjobs thinking they're cops and pulling people over (known this to happen twice) is rank throughout the industry.  If you are just a clean cut guy, looking to make a couple bucks on the side, and can show up on time and not be high, you are in.Finally, the night shift.  If you are going to work security make it the night shift.  You don't want to be the armed and overpaid receptionist for an office building downtown unlocking people's cars, towing cars, and in general dealing with everybody's mistakes.  In the end and combining all these traits together, you have the PERFECT job, especially for independent-minded people like us.  You are paid, albeit it a minimum amount, to sit and work on your own stuff, occasionally getting up so you don't fall asleep, and are completely alone (assuming you took the dog shift).  It is the perfect recipe for an inventor, an author, a entreprenuer, or just a minimalist who likes to read books because it gives you 8 hours a day to work on what you want.  Better still, it FORCES you to work on your own projects because if you don't have anything to occupy your time you will get bored.For example I wrote "Enjoy the Decline" in 45 days while pulling 16 hour shifts sitting at a warehouse as a security guard.  I wrote "Behind the Housing Crash" in just three months doing the same.  Another guard I know wrote the code for an entire program as a security guard.  And another one I knew doubled as a network administrator who would telnet into work and get paid double.  Though the work was not glorious and the title guaranteed not to impress chicks at bars, working security gave industrious individuals like ourselves the time, the discipline and the opportunity to focus on ourselves and our endeavors.But the true benefit of working security is ultimately financial.  Specifically, your chances of becoming genuinely rich are higher working as a security guard than a corporate cog.Understand nobody becomes rich busting their ass off in the rat race, climbing the corporate ladder.  Most people will deem the mental and pscyhological costs too high to make it into senior, let alone executive management, settling instead for a very median wage.  But as a security guard, busting his or her ass off, aggressively pursuing whatever your idea or dream is, you stand a MUCH BETTER CHANCE at becoming rich than your average corporate, ass-kissing slave because it is your entire idea.  If it works, you get to benefit from it 100%.  Also realize that while, yes, a corporate cog could come home and start working on his or her new business idea or invention, corporate employment is so mind-numbing most people just want to sit and veg out.  Security work not only allows you to work on your own stuff, but does the opposite of what corporate employment does to your mind.  Instead of numbing it, it invigorates it.  It gets the creative juices flowing and consequently gives you more passion and energy to pursue and accomplish your dreams.  I've come home from 16 hour security shifts more invigorated and pumped up about life than a 4 hour day cut short by a computer network failure or power outage at a corporate gig, just because the damn job gives you hope.Of course, all of this is contingent on one thing - that you have a plan or a goal AND you have the discipline to pursue it while working the night shift.  For if you don't have those two things, then, well, yeah, you're just a rent-a-cop wanna be Paul Blart.  Otherwise, there is absolutely no shame in working a security gig.  
The Mathematical Impossibility of Retirement 
Permit me some really rough mathematics.In my introductory course to basic personal finance and investing, one of the first things I have my students do is go to this website and calculate how much they need to save for retirement.  It's a good exercise for everybody to go through, but the primary point is that (if you tinker with the calculator) you'll realize each person needs roughly $1 million in savings to retire.With 6.5 billion people in the world that ads up to $6.5 quadrillion (the number after trillion) in required savings to invest.Now, I'll grant you "retirement planning" and things like 401k's and RRSP's are really more of a western phenomenon and most people in 2nd and 3rd world countries don't have retirement plans, so let's just say the roughly 1 billion people in countries where they do have some kind of retirement program need to save up for retirement.That brings the total amount of required savings down to $1 quadrillion.Just one problem.There isn't $1 quadrillion worth of stocks or bonds in the entire world.  Matter of fact, according to the World Federation of Exchanges, there's only about $55 trillion in equity and $82 trillion in bonds, leaving us with $137 trillion in securities, only 14% of the total amount required to finance the retirements of 1 billion people (it is duly noted here there are other securities, however, bar commodities, things like mutual funds and ETF's are merely compositions of stocks and bonds.  I admit we could throw in the commodities market and REIT's, but you'll soon see the point I'm trying to make).There are some other problems as well.First, the majority of the $137 trillion in securities is owned by the richer classes.  It is not equally spread out across the 1 billion westerners.  So the average 401k schmoe is less likely to have the $1 million in his account.Second, though primarily held by 1st world nations, some of that $137 trillion IS held by 2nd and 3rd world countries.  In other words, the above optimistically assumes all the stocks of the Shanghai stock exchange are held by westerners solely for their precious little 401k plans which simply is not the case (heck, foreigners hold most of our debt anyway).  Third, the bond market has a ton of debt that is, frankly, never going to be paid back and be defaulted upon.  $16 trillion (intra government holdings duly noted) alone of which is the US federal government and roughly an equivalent amount in those kick-the-can-down-the-road socialist utopias in Europe that are currently already defaulting.So of that $137 trillion, can we roughly assume only a third of it is going to go to help finance people's retirement plans?  So roughly $46 trillion, i.e. 95% short of the amount necessary for people to retire.Now there is one other variable I have not accounted for (and, truthfully, am having some difficulty figuring this one out, but I think I have it pegged, though would appreciate any criticism or thought on it)Not everybody is going to retire on the same day.   As the 401k Clergy will rush to point out,"See!!!  See!!!  The stock market goes up though!  You're not assuming any growth!  You're assuming everybody cashes in today when they will in fact amortize out and we all know the stock market will go up by the magical amount to pay for everybody's retirement!  See!!  See!!!"And they're right.  Not everybody is retiring today and the markets will grow.  So let's do a little more (admittedly rough) math.  The magical $46 trillion needs to grow into $1 quadrillion to pay for the current 1 billion westerners' retirement plans.  And while these people vary in ages from new borns to nearly dead, assume 35 years for the markets to grow (half of people's life expectancy to roughly approximate the old and young).  We'll also optimistically assume an 8% annualized growth rate, meaning the market will increase roughly 15 fold in those 35 years.  Even with this idealistic scenario (where governments never default, corporations provide annualized returns of 12%, there's no inflation, and Obama's Magical Job Unicorn farts out jobs), the total global market capitalization for stocks and bonds will be....$665 trillion.  Still about 35% short of the total.Now, again, this was VERY rough mathematics and I'm sure somebody will find something wrong (and please do inform me if you do), but using this very rough litmus test it shows once again conventional retirement planning is flawed.  The amount of growth necessary in the capital markets will not be sufficient enough to pay for everybody's retirement.  And it is not even so much the rate of growth in the prices of stocks and bonds will be inadequate, but rather the increase in earnings, profits, dividends, and solvency of bond issuers will not be there to legitimize or rationalize current prices.  In English, this means as people flood the market with retirement dollars P/E ratios will go up, dividend yields will go down, and financial deadbeats (in the form of most western governments) will continue to borrow money at low rates they will never be able to pay back.People who are planning for retirement need to consider other forms of retirement beyond their IRA and 401k's.  They need to look at skills, property, commodities or just working till they're dead.  Not just because they didn't save up for retirement, but because the prospects for growth just isn't there. 
Why You Should NEVER Have a Business Partner 
Story 1Guy I know decides he's going to buy out an old sandwich shop and run it for his retirement plan.  He has enough money, but not enough time to manage it.  He finds an old buddy from his high school days to manage the shop.  Sure enough after mortgaging his house to the tune of $300,000, he finds out his business partner is not managing the shop effectively, they're losing money, and they guy is handing out free food to friends, almost to the point of embezzlement.  He has to take out another $150,000 from his house to buy his partner out and now manage the firm on his own which he has not the time to do.He is depressed.  He is miserable.  He has wasted the past decade of his life and with nothing to show for it.Story 2Another guy I know decides to start a business with a friend.  There is are barely any real start up costs, but some and since both are young, these start up costs are significant and thusly shared 50/50.  After depleting what little savings they have, one of the partners decides he wants out and demands he get his capital back.  The guy I know has to borrow money from his father to buy the guy out, and once again, now has to manage the firm (which the other guy wasn't really doing anyway).Story 3A good friend of mine went and worked for this older fellow who was planning on retiring and needed somebody to take over his business.  He agreed to train my friend in and invariably give him the company for all the labor and sweat equity my friend put into learning the ropes.  My friend received a minimal wage and upon taking over the company would have to pay out 33% of the profits, but be able to keep 67% of the profits for himself until the guy inevitably died.Unfortunately, the old man had some health problems and completely cashed out his company dishonoring this agreement he and my friend had.  My friend only managed to get a minimum wage as he no longer wished to take over an insolvent company whose accounts and assets had been raided. I could go on, but there is no limit to the number of stories where a partnership was started, one of the partners was a loser, and the whole business went down the toilet because of it.  However, it is not so much the entertainment value of such stories that is important, as much as it is the financial lesson everyone should glean from it -NEVEREVEREVERgoing into business with a partner.Let me explain why.If I were to estimate the number of partnership that failed based on my experiences in banking, I would say about 80-85% of them failed.  And theyALWAYSALWAYSALWAYSfailed because ONE partner was a loser and didn't carry his weight.The reason such a high percentage of partnerships have this "loser partner" is because of the binary nature of partnerships.  Losers, by definition, cannot support themselves financially and are always on the cusp of insolvency.  Because of this they are constantly coming up with scams.  It is important to note the difference between a "scam" and a legitimate business idea as one could claim any loser like myself who can't hold down permanent slavery employment would be a scammer.  However, business ideas MAKE MONEY, the purpose or aim of the scammer/loser partner is to merely access somebody else's capital so they can live another year or two without having to work.  i.e.-they have no INTENTION of making money, they merely (like Solyndra) need somebody else's capital to finance their "business idea."This brings in the nature of the second partner - the capital provider.With the smooth-talking sales guy, looking for a sucker to finance his "idea" they naturally seek out friends, even old long lost acquaintances to finance their scam.  These capital providers usually are normal, hard working people who have saved up their pennies and dimes and are looking for a better rate of return than what they're getting on their savings account or 401k.  Sure enough they are sold on the idea, cash in their retirement account or the equity in their home and are now financing a sports bar with the "idea guy" running it into the ground and drinking the inventory on the side.Again, 80-85% of the partnerships I saw had this binary relationship.The irony, of course, is that this means the majority of partnerships should never have been partnerships in the first place.  They should have been sole-proprietors.  Not just because you would be jettisoning the loser partner, but out of all the partnerships I've seen 100% of them were not big enough to warrant two people to start them, either for capital or labor.  The other person was just completely unnecessary and was extra baggage, if not a risk.  Additionally, there is ALWAYS a leadership battle when the ownership of the company is 50/50.  It is the WORST of all situations in that the largest single advantage a small company has is that decisions can be made QUICKLY and thus outmaneuver their competitors.  I've seen more energy spent bickering over business decisions between two equal shareholders than energy put into managing the business.The REAL reason people go into partnerships is psychological.  Namely they're scared and daunted by the task of embarking on a business venture and thus the perceived risk-sharing seems appetizing.  Also, a lot of people are bored and would like somebody to manage the company with.  Many friends have become enemies because while they made great friends, they made horrible business partners.  The larger point though is that starting a business is not a "fun" thing to do and your psychology should play no role in a financial decision.  Additionally, if you do have a genuine business idea, then the last thing you would want to do is SPLIT THE PROFITS WITH OTHER SHAREHOLDERS.  Again, it is a FINANCIAL decision.Now, the reason I bring all of this up is because I know my readership.  I know my lieutenants, economists and Cappy Cappites and I know many of you are of the pro-capitalist, unemployable, self-employment types. And because of this you will likely be offered the opportunity to engage in or start a business with another person. DO NOT DO IT.Unless the company REALLY needs two people's labor or two people's capital, it's best that it is started, managed and owned by ONE person, be it you or the other guy.  The risks of having your savings plundered by some scam artist, not to mention your profits halved should the business prove successful, is just not worth it.  
If Your Marketing Strategy Consists of "Cookies" Your Company Will Fail 
I was working for what was mathematically and empirically the 2nd WORST bank in the entire state.This is not my opinion.This is not my estimation.It was fact.I had compiled a ton of research of all the banks in the state using the FDIC's institution database and based on measures like depository growth, loan defaults, loan delinquencies, OREO, oh, and let's not forget those old school measures like ROA and ROE, this bank was without a doubt the second worst bank.  Actually, it was quite clear this bank was the second worst, because it was a "very distant second worst."  It was very obvious it was in bad shape and the only reason it was second was because there was another bank that was even more spectacularly abysmal than this one.Unfortunately, I was working for this "second worst bank."Naturally, because we were in such bad shape, I thought part of our efforts (in addition to cleaning up all the bad loans that were made) would be to restructure the bank, marshal our resources, and then attempt to start growing again.  To start anew, and start going after new, but quality business and thusly provide our (very) benevolent shareholders a decent return on their investment.  Besides, I was no longer a measly credit analyst, I was now a VP in commercial lending, which meant my job now entailed pursuing new business and expanding our market.I was fine with this, because truth be told, the underwriting or "credit analyst" part of my job was easy.  Also, I was not allowed to repossess, foreclose, liquidate or do anything to clean up our "bad loan portfolio" which meant I had about 6 hours a day to pursue business development.Just one problem.I was never given the green light to pursue new business.You see, all of the higher ranked individuals were too busy dealing with bad loans, decaying collateral, difficult clients, and complying with new federal regulations to approve a business development strategy.  They didn't have time to start pursuing new business.  Understanding this, and having about 6 hours a day to twiddle my thumbs, I did something spectacularly stupid and should have known better.I took initiative.I put together what (in my opinion) was arguably my finest piece of work in my entire corporate American career - an entire marketing strategy for the whole company, based on market research, FDIC data, economic data and so forth.It was thorough.It was complete.It was concise.And it was brilliantly innovative.It was also, completely ignored."Too busy to read it.""Gotta deal with the OCC.""Oh, thanks, yeah, I took a quick look at it, but I don't have time to get back to you on it.  Maybe next week."and other such excuses I received for no less than (are you ready for it?)9 months.And so there I was, like a top of the line F-22 Raptor, mothballed in a hangar.  Capable of carrying out a great many things, but the brass was too busy worrying about the paint color on the runway or what to order for lunch.So there I sat, doing what most corporate cogs do - acting like they're working, when they're just killing time.  Matter of fact, I didn't even bother to "look busy."  I'd just listen to music, e-mail my friends, facebook and so forth.  My "boss" would come in, have something that would take him 8 hours to do because he was old and inept, and I'd knock it out in 15 minutes.  I'd take a morning work out break (one hour), then lunch (another hour) and sometimes I'd go for a motorcycle ride just to get some air.  However, what constantly gnawed at me was what was substituting my marketing strategy in its stead:Chocolate chip cookies.You see, my plan consisted of breaking out of the traditional banking mindset.  Doing things differently, innovatively, and creatively.  We were small, and thus nimble, and if we streamlined operations, got rid of our bad clientele that consumed our labor resources, we could (I estimated) undercut our competitors' interest rates by .5% and still pull profit.  We'd also poach business from our competitors by aggressively targeting their best clients, and we'd get new business by doing fun and creative things like sponsoring barbeque and hotwings competitions, dance classes, and sports competitions.  But no, oh no, we were going to deploy the brilliant strategy of "chocolate chip cookies."As I was told,"You see, it's all about superior customer service.  It's all about personal service.  When Bill walks into the bank, he wants to chit cat, and talk.  He likes it that we know his name.  And that's why people bank with us.  We have cookies on Fridays and offer them cofee"And so instead of targeting a higher quality clientele, looking for new and profitable business, we were going to be the shucks howdy, gee-whilliker's dandy bank and offer money-losing-customers chocolate chip cookies (but only on Fridays).The reason I highlighted/bolded the statements above is because this had happened before at the credit union I worked at.  We offered "cookies" to our clients when they came in.  And when a bank's (or any company's) strategy is "cookies" and "superior customer service" I can gar-ron-freaking-tee you that company's strategy will fail.The reason why is simple - it's not a strategy.It's a platitude leaders spew who have no ability to lead, let alone, ideas to offer.YOu see, if you're going to offer "superior customer service" then the first and primary way you do that is by offering a better product at a lower price.  In banking this translates into offering them a lower interest on their loans or a higher interest on their deposits.  Free checking and no fees.  Stuff like that.  THAT is the SERVICE people want.  Not f#cking cookies on Fridays (and technically it was popcorn at my branch, only the main office offered cookies). Additionally, the whole "superior customer service" is a canard in that WHAT FREAKING BANK DOESN'T CLAIM TO OFFER SUPERIOR SERVICE!?  Have you ever heard of a bank claiming they offer INFERIOR service?  Unless you've hired the absolute best customer service people NO BANK (or company) offers SUPERIOR customer service.  You're all the same, you're all providing an equal standard of "faux customer service," while completely ignoring the quality of your product.The result is obvious - do you know of any bank that is demonstrably superior and better than others?  Can you find a single, innovating, mover and shaker bank, busting its ass off to offer you a significantly lower interest rate on your mortgage than its competitors?  Or is it that same faux-Minnesota-nice teller at Wells Fargo who is being forced to fake an interest in "what your plans are for the weekend?"Of course, this lack of any true innovation or ideas is not relegated to banks.  Sadly it affects practically all of corporate America.  For example this little article here.  As further proof corporate America is all out of ideas, food manufacturers are spending their time trying to make their processed food looked more "homemade."  Kraft alone, spending 2 years to develop a cutting technique to make their turkey "unevenly cut."But the primary reason in bringing this up is not to knock the banking industry or the food service industry, but one of serious consequences.  The ONLY place any kind of economic recovery or a return to our western countries' former greatnesses is going to come from is the private sector.  And the ONLY way we are going to solve our debt problems or enjoy increasing standards of living is through the innovation, creation and productivity of private individuals in the private sector.But for the Patron Saint's Name of Frick.If "Friday cookies," "superior customer service," the Wells Fargo teller faking interest in my day, and "uneven cut turkey" is the best our private sector can come up with, we are doomed.  Because those ideas, are frankly, so stupid they may as well have come from the public sector. 
Most Small Business Owners are Dumb as Hell 
I love how politicians only champion "small businesses."  "Big business" is bad, but "small businesses" are good.Never mind that big businesses account for the majority of employment.And never mind small businesses,when successful, become big.Nope, small business = good.Big business = bad.Just one problem.The vast, and I mean like 93% vast, majority of small business owners are dumber than hell.They are incompetent.  They have no business acumen.  And they consequently fail the vast majority of the time.The reasons are many.Most small business owners are naive and start things they think will be "fun."  There was no limit to the number of sports bars, trinket shops, horse hobby farms, music studios, and restaurants I had to deal with working as a credit analyst.  NONE of them were profitable.  NONE of them were feasible.  It was just some moron who foolishly cashed in their 401k to "pursue a dream" and start a company they thought would be fun.  Of course "fun" things are usually oversupplied to the market and the profit margins just aren't there.Another reason for the spectacular failure of small businesses is their owners truly and honestly believe accounting is optional.  THat's the "hard stuff" and they literally have no idea how much they're making or losing.  All one has to do is watch Restaurant IMpossible where the host invariably asks the bloated sows about their "P&L" and they don't even know what that is.  Again, these are lazy, dumb people who started the business for "fun."  Not profit.  And since accounting isn't "fun" they don't do it.Finally, a disproportionate number of "small businesses" are really just contractors who claim theyr'e running a business.  You know, the guy with the truck who bought a magnet to put on it "Joe's Master Paving" but couldn't tell you what "LLC" stands for or where the secretary of state is to register such a thing.  They are basically playing make-believe-businessman.  They get cards, they get signs, they get everything that is glamorous and ritzy, but not the basic things like setting up a company or getting insurance.Normally I would like to submit a solution.  Like "hey, if you're a dumbass, don't start a restaurant."  Or "hey, if you're a politician, the LAST group of people you should be championing for saving the US economy is small business owners."  But I don't care anymore.  Not because I'm enjoying the decline, but because the entire small business world, even the entire US economy, is more focused on feeling good and avoiding real work than working hard and making a profit.  And no amount of logic, reasoning, lecturing or facts from me are going to wake these people up out of their trance.The only thing will be when the Chinese and Japanese turn off the credit line and there's no more money to be lent out to sports bars, hair salon, or horse hobby farms.Enjoy the decline!  
Why Job Hopping Is Good 
In the last few years of my banking career I had built up a pockmarked resume full of year long to 18 month long "stints."  A credit analyst position there.  A senior analyst position there.  Even managed to make it to assistant vice president (which was a euphemism they used to low ball me on salary).  Regardless, the reason for the brevity of the stints was obvious - the banking industry was failing, it was corrupt, and it was dysfunctional. Of course, the HR and hiring managers interviewing me didn't see it that way.  They, naturally, thought there was something wrong with me.  And thus, I was asked during pretty much every interview in the last 5 years of my banking career,"I see a lot of short stays...lot of job hopping.  Any reason?"And by this time I was blunt and too damn tired to lie,"Yeah, you're industry is screwed up, dysfunctional and losing money.  Did you want me to have a long term, loyal stint at banks that were losing money?"Ironically, this actually landed me several gigs, but the lesson to take away from this little experience of mine is one of "job hopping.""Job hopping" is usually viewed in a shameful manner by our elders in corporate America.  It shows you're not loyal, you're not serious, you aren't reliable, etc. etc.Of course, this is BS.The truth is job hoppers are people with two things:1.  Options2.  Self respectThe primary reason I didn't last longer than 18 months at any one employer was I had dance classes and online classes on the side.  And anytime a boss got lippy, got an attitude, or started asking me to do immoral or impossible things, I'd tell them to go to hell.  I didn't need the job, and the hell if I was going to suffer 8 hours a day under a sadistic environment, serving a boss who was delusional, even sadistic him/herself.I also had self-respect.Understand the labor market is so flooded with overqualified and overeducated candidates that they are no longer hiring people based on competency or ability.  They are so flooded with candidates they can be supremely picky and finicky, making their hiring decisions based on ever-increasingly petty criteria.  Because of this the employment environment has become mentally abusive.  You need to network, you need to kiss ass, you need to play corporate politics, you need to be a mind reader.  Oh, and by the way, you need to do your job too.The baby boomer generation currently in charge of corporate America are fully aware of this and is why you deal with power hungry, petty, and incompetent bosses.  They know you're desperate, they know you have student loans, and they are going to eek every non-financial benefit they can out of you, part of which is deriving a sick and twisted psychological benefit of watching you squirm and just through hoops.  Thus the lack of clear, concise leadership.  The lack of training ("you have to hit the ground running!").  The petty office political games you get to play.  Their demands of having access to your private life (facebook passwords).  False and misleading job descriptions.  And YOU have to figure out what they want because they "just don't have the time to hold your hand."  And if you don't, "well then I guess you're just not a team player."Thus, along this line, they  loooove to play the "you're not a serious adult" card when they see a job hopper.  When in reality it's just a young man or woman who has figured out the game and will not tolerate any kind of abuse or corporate BS antics.  In short, job hoppers scare them and there really is no shame in being one.However, eliminating the shame old timers try to foist on job hoppers does not solve the problem job hoppers face - primarily employment.Even without crushing student loans, mortgages or other debts, you still need to put food on the table, you still have expenses.  You still need to work because you still need money.  Not to mention it is the world's largest pain in the ass to constantly be applying for jobs.  So invariably you would WANT to find a good job and settle down. So how do you find a good, quality, reliable job if your a job hopper?The solution is ironic, but very simple:Keep job hopping.Understand the way jobs and careers are sold to young people today is like that of arranged marriages.  You find a job and even if it isn't a perfect fit, heck, outright abusive, you still try your best to make it work.  You "must be loyal."  You must "give 110%."  You must "be a team player."  And if you're not, you're a failure.However, this "arranged marriage model" is wrong.  Finding a job and a quality employer should be like dating.  You date as many people as possible, with absolutely no intention of committing, until you find a quality courtee worthy of your commitment and effort.  You'd be INSANE and STUPID to try to SERIOUSLY DATE EVERY GIRL/GUY you ever dated, so why are you trying to SERIOUSLY DATE every job you have?  Forget what the old timers say or try to shame you about "job hopping."  SMART people who want to find the ideal job DON'T WASTE THEIR TIME at jobs they don't like.  They find out (much like dating) the flaws of their employer.Lousy boss.Incompetence.Idiotic co-workers.CorrptionPsychoses galore.You name it, just like girls in their young 20's, employers are rife with tons of deal-breakers, problems, baggage, and damaged goods that should deny them your labor and loyalty.  And just like it's bad for your health to stay in a bad/abusive relationship so too is it bad for you to stay with an equally bad/abusive employer.Of course, this solution is not a quick one.  I wish I had an easier answer, but the labor market just doesn't work that way.  Just like dating, you are going to have to kiss a lot of frogs to find that employer prince.  And it may take DECADES of job hopping to find that right one.But think of the alternative.Forcing yourself to slave away at a job you hate, working for a boss you want to murder, all while having your brain rot, just so you can be considered "loyal" and get a pension.Job hopping and all the faux shame that comes with it, might suck, but in the end you will be one of the very few who finds a job they truly love. 
The Crapshoot Career 
A buddy of mine was visiting from Kansas City.  In all seriousness he said,"You should become a used car salesman."I looked at him with one brow raised and said, "Really?"He then continued on to explain that there was a ton of money, but it took an odd and obscure personality to become a good used car salesman.  I laughed, but life has taught me that he is probably more right than wrong.  I probably would make a good used car salesman.Why?Because my initial reaction would be that I would be a HORRIBLE used car salesman.  And what I always thought I would be "horrible" at or would "never do" I ended up excelling in.I don't know what to call it, perhaps a "reverse skill talent," but if life has taught me anything, it's that you are likely to be horrible at what you think you'd be good at and awesome at what you'd think you'd be horrible at.For example, not in a million years did I think I would be a ballroom dancer/instructor, let alone an author, let alone a radio personality.  I even mocked and ridiculed such professions as fake or bogus.  It wasn't until harsh economic conditions forced me into taking a crap shoot at all three, all of which I excelled at, two of which are now my mainstay of income.Banking?  Well, you all know the story.  I technically am the best analyst and economist I know.  My predictions about the economy and default risk of loans is near a 1.000 batting average.  However, that skill is not what matters in the banking industry, as much as how wide you can spread your butt cheeks and how wide you can open your mouth.Regardless, why this is true, I do not know, but I have a theory. Different personalities are attracted to different industries.  Analytical types are attracted to finance and accounting.  Creative types are attracted towards media and the arts.  Courageous types are attracted towards military and police.  But in an ironic twist, each of those industries are then FLOODED with those personality and aptitude types, thereby lowering the value of those personalities and aptitudes.  This puts not so much a higher value of personalities and aptitudes that would DIFFER from the traditional personalities and aptitudes normally associated with those industries, as much as it gives people with different aptitudes and abilities a HUGE competitive advantage.For example my business background gave me a HUGE advantage over my touchy-feely, artsy, fartsy dance instructor competitors.  I was the first instructor to offer "field trips" to my students where I'd take them out dancing, thereby making my classes more attractive, and I also learned multiple types of dances so I could schedule a "batch" of classes.  So instead of just an hour of dance class, I would teach 3 hours of three different types of dance.  This allowed me to increase my radius where I could offer classes because I was generating more revenue per trip.  In short, and to this day, I am the only instructor from the Twin Cities to travel to far flung places like Mankato, Hibbing, Austin, etc.The larger point is one that should provide GREAT hope and relief to you younger (or even older) types who are trying to find a job or your place in the world - your best career is likely NOT to be the one you're applying for.This means that if you're a business major filing out yet another f*cking Taleo-Brass Ring online application, you may be better off walking down to the welding shop, learning how to weld, and getting a job at the Bakken oil field.This means that if you're the drama major, you may be better off picking up an accounting class or two and becoming a staff accountant at the local beanery or theater.This means that if you're a computer network engineer, your mind numbing job might be easily replaced by becoming an author or music composer.Whatever it is, you might be shocked and surprised just how well you would do in fields you thought the complete antithesis of your skill set.  It's just a matter of taking a chance, applying and taking a crap shoot at anything.In all seriousness if my book sales were to dry up, I would probably walk down to the used car lot and ask to be a salesman.  I would also pick up a saxophone and start playing because I think I would be horrible at it, which means I would probably rock at it.  You should do the same.Think you'd make a lousy cop?   Then volunteer as a reserve officer to see if you're not wrong.Think you'd make a lousy surgeon?  Then watch surgery videos and see if you don't immediately upchuck, but are one of those weird people who find it "fascinating." Hate kids?  Sign up to substitute teach and see if those rug rats don't wear off on you.Are you a pastor looking for some side income?  Consider a career as a porn star. I personally cannot tell you what it would be, just that my experience has been that it's the complete OPPOSITE of what you think, and usually a lot more fun.  
10 Years of Unnecessary Hoop Jumping 
Embedded in this CPA update is the story of Walt Kofski.  Because it's not obvious where it is, I've taken the liberty of highlighting the relevant sections:
 
OK, lieutenants, agents, and economists.  Do you see what I see?
Yes, that's right, good ole Walt was able to test for the CPA without having to have a degree.
The other thing you might have observed is that in spite of this
HUGE
DRAMATIC
IMPAIRING
 
disability he still managed to become one of the most successful CPA's and accountants in Minnesota history.
So riddle me this, riddle me, that,
why in the Patron Saint's Name of Frick are we requiring modern day CPA applicants to have not only an undergraduate degree in accounting, but also a certain amount of masters classes in accounting, oh, and not to mention the never-ending litany of CPE/continuing education?  If somebody can just pass the CPA out of high school, then why not let them?  Wouldn't it be more efficient for all of us???
I shall answer young lieutenants, and the answer is two fold.
First, there just plain isn't enough economic growth to go around.  When Walt sat for the CPA exam, economic growth was averaging around 4.25%.  Today is is only 2.5%, nearly 2 full percentage points lower.  This means without new economic growth, there is no new economic opportunities for any young up and comers.  Therefore employers have to find ways to screen you.  This means -  you guessed it - progressive credentialism.
While a million people in the state of Minnesota may have the raw talent and ability to sit and pass the CPA exam without going to college, that doesn't matter.  Employers just plain don't have the demand for that many CPA's.  So they throw in front of you unnecessary and unneeded hoops to test NOT YOUR SKILL, but basically, your compliance.  Your obedience.  And (ultimately) your lack of self respect.  
The reason why they are ultimately testing your lack of self-respect is because people with the least amount of self-respect are the cheapest.  So cheap in fact most employers know they can do away with training programs or certification programs and FORCE THE INDIVIDUAL TO PAY FOR A 4 YEAR DEGREE, MASTERS CLASSES, and FEES TO GET CERTIFIED.
 
But it isn't just the financial costs (which can well be into 6 figures), it's also the time.  And not just time, it is your youth you are wasting jumping through these hoops.  When all is said and done, I'd estimate with 4 years undergrad, 1 year masters, a year studying for the CPA, another year getting the necessary work experience to be able to test for it, AND let's not forget that oh-so-needed CPE and continuing education (all during your prime years, mind you), you are already agreeing to forfeit 10 years of your life merely TRAINING and EDUCATING yourself to get the credentials.
Understand there is no economic production that comes from training and education.  It is merely developing a skill that in the future will result in added economic production, but for those ten years it is a sunk cost the young, poor person pays.  Worse, as progressive credentialism expands and HR departments become more picky and requirements become more lengthy, the quality of that "education" decreases.  Matter of fact, it becomes nothing more than a big fat expensive joke (for example just look at what they're teaching in MBA classes now).
Now, this is just the CPA, but the vileness of progressive credentialism has infected nearly every aspect of the working world.  College degrees are "preferred" for jobs that 14 year olds can do at fast food joints.  Masters degrees are essentially required if you want to get into anything above "entry level," but said jobs will still be way below your skill and education.  A young man in the UK was required to dance to get a job at a GROCERY STORE.  And I'm sure every one of us would like to have back the 8,000 brain cells we've each lost every time we go in and suffer the inanity of the HR ditz asking us "if you could be a cat or a dog, which one would you be?"  But the insanity and psychological pain this all inflicts on us is nothing compared to the economic costs.
Understand there is a counterbalance to all this insanity.  And it is the fact that the young are wasting at least a decade of their lives, going to school, getting certifications, and getting accredited INSTEAD OF WORKING.  This of course bodes poorly for the young kids doing the Decade Long Hoop Jump Dance.  They're not at their full capacity, they're never "advancing" and rarely will they have a career.  But it bodes even poorer for the scum who instituted this dysfunctional labor market.  For the people in power need young people's economic production to pay for the social security and medicare ponzi scheme they've created.
Many of you are angry about this.  But may I point out, you can't pay for other people's stuff if you don't have a job, let alone a high paying one?  Because of the piss-poor management of the government and corporate sector, employment prospects are so poor for young people, there's no way they can tax you - you have nothing to tax.  Furthermore, with our "great leaders" from "the great society" instituting socialism, you are inoculated against confiscatory taxes on your income.  So yes, while you are forced to be poor or at least lower-middle income, you are also protected from high taxation to pay for other people's stuff (that is until bank accounts and 401k's are "haircutted" but that is another topic).  
In short, the "lost decade" of economic production is not solely going to fall on the generation forced to jump through hoops.  It's going to affect those guilty of setting up such a sadistic system in the first place.  The only true costs to younger generations is the time you wasted in school (which you don't have to do) and the fact, unlike say, your WWII counterpart, you aren't going to achieve your best so early (it's almost laughable to think of all the 18 year old pilots and engineers who had more responsibility and achievement during WWII compared to most 40 something cubicle dwellers today).
The second reason why younger generations have to suffer such inhumane treatment is one of simple malice.  Here I have no empirical proof, no data, no charts.  Just enough work experience and adulthood to come to the conclusion most of the people in power, be it government or corporate America, are petty and evil enough to do this out of entertainment.  Power is a corrupting force I will never understand, but I have seen it turn people into the most malicious and petty of people.  Adria Richards (though not older) is a perfect example of what just a little bit of power can do.  She ruined the career of two young men (not to mention her own) because of the lizard-brain taste for power.  And so when a younger, smarter, faster, better go getter is in the ranks of an old, ass-kissing, brown-nosing, has-been who "doesn't do that Excel stuff" hurdles and hoops must be put up to keep the young and talented from advancing, otherwise LEGIONS of old, obsolete, outdated, and inefficient managers would have to relinquish their positions OR (GASP!!!)  HAVE TO GET EDUCATION AND TRAINING!!!!  And we all know those hoops are just reserved for idiot young kids.  In other words it's just a delaying action to defer the inevitable giving the 57 year old blue hair that vital extra decade he needs to pay off his two ex-wives, pay down the 3rd mortgage on his McMansion and pay off that loan on his 7 year old 5 Series.
Of course, none of this solves the problem that many (if not) most young people are under/unemployed, in debt, and will never have society's institutions use them to their fullest potential.  But it does put into perspective as to how society treats its youth today versus that of yesterday.  And at least with this perspective, you can make wise decisions that are going to benefit you, and not the pre-made decisions that are going to benefit them.
First, refuse to jump through the hoops.  School, I've said before, is quickly becoming a waste unless you major in the right thing.  And even if you do major in the right thing, you are not going to be taken seriously until you are at least 35.  Again, this is not WWII where you are desperately needed to pilot that P-51.  This is the worst economy in 50 years where there is no need for you except to file and fax and be called an "assistant manager" and do all the other crap work your boss doesn't want to do.  You will never be challenged and you will never meet your potential.  Ergo...
Second, why you might want to consider the military.   Any posts about how "you could get killed" and "I'm not defending this socialist hell hole" will be ignored.  Because you would not be joining the military for "god and country" as much as it will be for "me and me."  The military is about the ONLY place that will take an 18 year old kid and give them the opportunity to achieve their best.  And since most employers are too sadistic and inefficient, this makes the military the BEST option for kids nowadays.  Free food, clothing, shelter, health care and education.  You outta kiss your drill sergeant on the lips for how kind and generous the military is compared to corporate America.  
Third, by god, have some self-respect.  I know this is tough to do if you have debts, but your youth and your sanity are not worth putting through the mental meat-grinders employers have become today just for a paycheck.  Job descriptions that are outright lies, job offers that are half of what they should be, psychotic bosses who never make tough decisions or provide leadership, resulting in feuds between the rank and file as they try to lead themselves.  Why even tolerate it?  Collecting a government check or working a low level security guard job or working as a parking lot attendance is infinitely better and more self-respecting.  Again, very few of us will ever become thattop notch accountantelite investment bankersuper accurate actuaryor top sales guybut nearly all of us can get by on very little, enjoy stress free jobs, and give employers the proverbial finger when they tell us to waste 10 years of our youth and at our expense, jumping through hoops. 
All the House You'll Ever Need 
After battling a summer cold for the past week I managed to get the best of it to the point I could do my regular run again of 6 miles.  This run of course a bit more full of mucus as I coughed the last vestiges of green phlegm vacationing in my throat, but it was back to my regular schedule at my regular route.My regular route is at "The Lakes" in Minneapolis.  "The Lakes" refers to a group of 4 lakes within the city limits that have immaculately groomed trails, trees, and mansions of old-money fame (Pillsburys, Daytons, Cargills, etc.).  I've enjoyed running around these lakes for the past 20 years, fancying in my youth someday I might be able to buy one of those houses.My favorite house, however, is this one.  An old Italian villa that if I ever had the money I would buy it.

Or, at least that's what I thought when I was 18 and first saw it.  For now that I've doubled in age since first laying eyes on that house and dreaming that if I worked hard, such a house would be within my reach, my experience and wisdom has told me that such a house is the last thing I would want.First, unless you have 10 children, a wife, and heck, staff and a mistress or two, the house is just not practical for your average bachelor, let alone family.  You'll have tons of unused rooms and unless you have a ton of hobbies (telescopes, music, painting, etc.) they'll remain that way - unused.  Heck, in my window-washing days I had seen the insides of enough mansions to realize most rooms, if even dedicated to "telescopes" or "piano rooms" are rarely used, essentially turning them into insanely expensive storage for insanely expensive, rarely practiced hobbies.Second, the property taxes.  I tutored a rather well-to-do woman who was getting her MBA.  The property taxes ALONE on her house was $16,000 per year.  That was more than I paid ON MY ENTIRE MORTGAGE per year.  And this house, while very nice, was NO WHERE NEAR as luxurious as my Italian villa above.  For that amount of money not only can you afford another entire house, but you could travel the world, staying in different places, having a much more interesting and adventuresome life. Third, on a related note, property taxes again.  Minneapolis is notorious for jacking up their property taxes at a rate 4 times that of inflation.  My humble duplex I once owned was making me money until my property taxes went from $900 per year to $3,600 in less than a decade, making it no longer profitable AND A RISK TO EVEN OWN.  In other words, it's not even an issue as to whether the property taxes are "high," it's an issue akin to nationalization or Cuba.  Cities in major metro areas are headed up by socialists.  And while they may not take the deed to your house from you, they'll just tax it to the point they've effectively confiscated it anyway, and now you are paying exorbitant rent to have the "privilege" to live in Minneapolis.  In short that Italian villa would be nothing but a HUGE liability in that the city would attach such property taxes it becomes a debt to the city, not an asset to the individual.Fourth, cleaning and heating and maintenance.I know, I know.  If you had the money to afford that house, you'd outsource the maintenance of the place and not worry about the heat bill, but I am talking from the standpoint of normal people who are looking from the outside, "dreaming" of what it would be like to own that house.When you put this altogether, the house is very much like a hot trophy wife - pretty to look at, but not worth owning.This is the house you want:

This house was for sale near a buddy's of mine.  It is not flashy, it is not luxurious, but for your average bachelor or couple, this is all the house you'll ever need.  It's cheap, it's small, it's easy to maintain and clean, and the city will never jack up the taxes on it to the point it loses it's value, and you will save money over the long haul in rent.  And even if the city did "municipalize" it, in the grand scheme of things, it's not that big of a loss because it can't become that big of a liability.Of course, it's not as luxurious or prestigious as my Italian villa, but that is what I'm trying to get you to see past.  That's ALL the Italian villa is.  It's a pain in the ass AND a risk otherwise.  In short, what I am trying to do is spare you the longing, envy, desire and pain I wasted countless calories of energy on as I ran past that and other luxury houses for the past 20 years.  Yes, you may have your favorite house or houses, but unless you are filthy rich, there is no point yearning or sighing heavily to own such a house because if your did, YOU'D LIKELY REGRET IT.So do what I do now every time I run past this or a home I really like a lot - look at it and enjoy its architectural beauty.  Because, once again, like a trophy wife, its visual beauty is usually the best thing about it.  And you can enjoy that for free.  
Your Age Does Not Determine Your Success (No Matter What Middle Aged Old Farts Say) 
Permit me to be bold.Well, I'm not actually being bold, I'm just telling the truth. It's just I have the audacity to speak it, which comes off as being bold and arrogant, but still, it is the truth when I say:Not one,NOTONEboss I've ever hadwas smarter or better than me at either his/her job or mine.And this is an important point to make, because as many of you youth are finding out, you are being challenged ABSOLUTELY NOWHERE NEAR your full capacity in your careers.  You are working jobs that are way beneath your skills, education, and training.  And if you don't find out why this is, it WILL lead to decades of confusion, angst, depression, frustration, and anger. Thus, in order to have this mental peace and sanity you need to understand what is going on in a macro-economic sense to understand the environment you're in, why you are in a job that seems to be going nowhere, and dealing with bosses that are seemingly illogical, constantly lecturing you, and are never happy.  And to do this we need to compare two very different economic environments - WWII and today's economy.To this day I am still amazed at just how much responsibility young men (and women) were giving during WWII.  Fighter pilots at the age of 17 (because they lied on their applications), 22 year old captains in command of men.  Majors who haven't even made it to their 3rd decade of life.  And let's not forget what governments on both sides were doing with their youngest, best, and brightest.The Manhattan Project had tons of 20 something men.Hitler's rocket program was headed up by a then 28 year old Verner Von Braun.And I don't think anybody back at home on either fronts were required to have a bachelor's degree with "master's preferred" in order to work in the factories and help in the war effort.But that was the thing.  There was a war going on.  All countries on all sides NEEDED everybody to produce at their absolute potential, at their absolute best.  Because if they didn't, then it would spell the end of that country.  To that end, all the hurdles, hoops, and other bullshit was eliminated.Don't care if you're not related to the boss, you are the best welder.  WE NEED YOU!Don't care if you aren't sleeping with the owner, you are the best secretary.  WE NEED YOU!Don't care if you are only 18 years old, you scored well in flight. Here's your P51.  WE NEED YOU!It was the closest we've ever came to a meritocracy.Now, contrast back then to today's economy.The economy is growing 40% slower than it was back then.  There is no war that threatens the country to galvanize the people.  Thus with neither growth nor compunction to use and employ everybody, including our youth, now people are employed based on an increasingly petty amount of irrelevant traits.It's not merely if you're the best.  You need to network and have an in.It's not merely if you're the brightest.  You need to "have adequate people skills." It's not merely if you are the best man for the job and can replace your boss at a fraction of the price. You have to pay your dues.And it's not merely if you're more than capable. You need to answer the idiotic questions of a math-impaired 25 year old HR ditz.Ergo, our economy is not a meritocracy like it was in WWII as much as it has become a bureaucracy.  And advancement and success is no longer dependent upon skills, excellence, ability, and potential, it is based on the (veritably) psychotic and sociopathic laws and rules the current managerial class sadistically applies.This is why you go to college, become amazingly skilled, but are then hired to do a job you could have done when you were 13.This is why you ram heads with management because all you want to do is work hard and get promoted, but your boss constantly and miserably fails to provide clear and concise leadership, and blames their failures on you.This is why no matter how many jobs you get, you aren't "having bad luck."  It's just that employers are that lousy. And to top it all off they drown you in a sea of propaganda telling you:"you just aren't cutting it""you just don't get it""you just don't take your job seriously"confusing you to think you are the one with the problem.The question is, is it worth it?Is it worth wasting your entire youth going to school, and then further busting your ass off for another 6-8 years getting advacned degrees and certifications, so that by the time you're NEARLY 30 and have easily spent 25 YEARS IN SCHOOLING AND EDUCATION and THEN and ONLY THEN does society allow you to start working?  Only then are you deemed "worthy" to file and fax?It's the biggest lie (bar social security, medicare, Obamacare, and socialism) told to the younger generations.Here's the truth kids.The modern day "employment system" is so dysfunctional, so bureaucratic, so corrupted, and so nepotistic, it's no longer worth participating in.I don't care what they tell you about working hard and "putting in your dues" and a "steep learning curve," the pay is plain just not worth it.  You will NEVER get promoted.  You will NEVER be challenged. And you will NEVER make the money that will make your quarter century of education-slavery worth it.  It is a scam, it is a lie, and you will easily waste 50 years trying to pursue it only to get laid off and die poor.However, the true testament as to just how impossible modern day employment is, is not the bum deal you get.  It's the fact that SELF-EMPLOYMENT is not only much easier, but statistically more likely to bring you financial success.Look, if a 17 year old kid who lies about his age can pilot P-51 fighter planes, then you can start a business.If a 28 year old can build the first successful ICBM, then you can become self-employed.And if men in their 30's and build an atomic bomb, then you can come up with a better mousetrap.But you can't do that with $70,000 in student loans, blathering idiotic professors stealing 4 years of your lives in pre-requisite classes, bloviating Pointy Haired Bosses keeping you in the mail room until you're 27, and more idiotic professor holding you hostage in an MBA program until you're 33.The key is to play a split strategy.  Yes, keep one toe in the "traditional route," get some schooling, do what you need to do.  But at the same time it is VITAL you immediately start pursuing a business venture of your own, starting as early as the age of 18.  100% of your efforts will go to benefit you, as opposed to the .2% of your efforts that a corporation allows you to have.  And while there is no guarantee you'll be successful, and it is likely you'll have to try multiple businesses before one sticks, in the end it is a much wiser and better strategy than putting 100% of your faith in the "corporation" and being a good, reliable "corporate man." 
The Mel Gibson Career Paradox 
Say you are really good at something.No, actually, say you're the best.You went to school for whatever it was, graduated top of your class, know your field inside and out, and are so good at what you do you know who your competition is and they number no more than three.That's how good you are.Now you try to go into your field and you find out, despite how good you are, you run into various obstacles.  Inept bosses, drama-politicking co-workers, duties that are beneath your ability, corruption, or a constant ramming of heads with management.  None of these things have anything to do with your ability or skill, but they do have a direct effect on your performance and career.Now say you think that job is a one time fluke and you find another one.  But sure enough you start to run into the exact same problems.  Old fart bosses who can't do Excel, management that turns a blind eye to either huge opportunities or devastating threats.  Co-workers that don't carry their weight or, worse, purposely sabotage you at every corner.  You really aren't doing anything wrong, there's no reason for these roadblocks, it's just that you keep running into incompetent, braindead turkeys that won't let you soar at your eagle capacity. You try and try again, but it's the same thing at job after job again.  Mundane duties, never allowed to achieve your best, petty politics and moron managers, constantly ramming heads...Well son, you unfortunately suffer from the Mel Gibson Career Paradox.You see, you may be the best in your field.  You may be able to see with 20/20 vision what others can't or won't.  You may be 100% right in everything you do and observe and would indeed make the best CEO in that industry, but alas, there is something about you that makes you completely incompatible with the industry.  It's nothing bad or good, you just have some trait, some characteristic that makes success in that industry an impossibility.In the case of Mel Gibson and thus the paradox, Mel Gibson is an incredibly talented actor.  He is also an incredibly talented director/producer making one of the few billion dollar grossing film.  He is hands down one of the best in his field, alas his personality and alcohol-induced rants are traits that just do not abide with the leftist Hollywood powers that rule the movie industry.  Forget that he's talented.  Forget he can bring in billions.  And forget that many in Hollywood are bigots, racists, and anti-American themselves.  He just doesn't jibe with the industry. Same thing with Peter Schiff, Robert Shiller, and dare I throw myself into the mix.  It was as clear as day to us that the housing market was hyper inflated and bad loans were being made.  Had the government and/or the banking industry merely listened to any one of us, the Great Recession would have never happened.  Alas, where are the three of us now?  I cannot speak personally to Peter Schiff or Dr. Shiller, but I'd imagine much like me, they rammed heads with management in their early career days and never made much head way in the financial services industry.  However, there is no doubt that we are "top men" in our respective industries.  Still be it our personalities, the way we walk, or the fact our intelligence scares the piss out of inept and corrupt banking executives, none of us had successful careers in the finance industry.  We just had that "trait" that made it mutually exclusive.  And thus the lesson to all of you.Understand that while you may be the best in your field, AND you may be 100% right, various sectors, segments, and industries of society have become so corrupt or so infiltrated with different groups of people, that qualities and traits you have, that have nothing to do with you ability, skill, or the profession, will make it impossible for you to work in those fields.  And whereas in the past this may have meant your skin color, your religion, or your ethnicity, today it can be things as innocuous and petty as "you're too moral," "you're too smart," "you know too much," "you're not corruptible," "you just don't play ball well," "you lack the ability to kiss ass," "you don't dress right," etc. etc. etc.  But while this may be "unjust" or "not right," it is what it is.  You may be the best, but that is irrelevant.  The system and you are not compatible.  You need to find a new career.Sadly this means many of you will have to give up your dream job or dream career.  You may really want to become a cop, but the police department doesn't want you to.  You may really want to become an accountant, but the CPA firm won't let you.  And you may want to be a nurse, but the medical industry steadfastly refuses you.  The key thing is to realize that it was never possible in the first place.  Your dream job was never to become a cop or an accountant or a nurse, because it was never feasible.   The biggest risk, however, is letting your excellence in the field force you to waste your time pursuing something that is not possible.  Ergo, even if you are the best, if your career is not flowing the way it should, and constantly has bumps in the road, it is time to give up your infeasible passion and find a feasible one.   
Viewing Cities as HOA's 
Whilst adventuring out west I was able to download podcasts from my favorite talk show, Garage Logic.  And so, though 2,000 miles away and in the most remote regions of the US, I was still able to hear about the latest stupidity of Minneapolis, this time our newest mayor's desire for Minneapolis to go "zero waste."Naturally some standard observations and criticism can be made:1.  the municipal left's propensity to blow money on consultants.2.  the blindingly obvious fact that the left has ran out of genuinely good ideas on governance and are instead pursuing the political religion of going green3.  the lack of funds needed to do basic things like pave streets4.  and the poetic justice of the idiot citizens who vote for such idiocy, but get to suffer itThere is more, but the important lesson to take from this is not one of leftists policies turning every major metro into Detroit, but rather one where it pays every potential home owner to step back, clear their eyes and look at cities for what they really are:Large home owners associations.I never liked the idea of HOA's because to me it seemed like another layer of unnecessary government.  But if you're going to live in a development or a condoplex, HOA's are a necessary evil.  However, cities or municipal government are EXACTLY THE SAME THING, just on a larger scale.  And just like you would want to investigate who is in charge of the HOA's, what kind of people live in the association, etc., etc., so to do you want to investigate the city you're about to drop $300,000 purchasing a home in.First, who are your neighbors?  Most regular HOA's are filled with boring, law-abiding citizens who live in the burbs or are professionals in the city.  Sure they may play music a little loud or perhaps they don't tidy their yard, but in general they are people you can get along with.  Contrast that with a major metro area where it is practically guaranteed you have criminals, drugs, racists, dumbass drunkard youth, graffiti artists, all of who are practically guaranteed to be leftists.Second, because of the city-HOA's populus' propensity to be leftists, you can expect a city council of unimaginable ineptitude to be voted in.  All they have to say is the right thing, advocate the rich pay their fair share, beg the state for more money, and spend money on bike trails, art, community centers, and light rail trains.  Consequently...Third, what are your association dues aka "property taxes" like and what is their trend?  Again, it is no secret that while living in Minneapolis my property taxes went up 400% in 8 years.  If I remember the math right, I was shelling out around $350 a month, up from $90 a month when I first purchased the home.  Not only did I not enjoy an increase of 400% in city services, the perpetually increasing property taxes made it so my rental property no longer cash flowed AND consequently drove its value down.  I could only imagine what $350 per month would get me in one of the posher suburban developments.and finallyFourth, if the HOA posing as a city is so poorly managed, are you even going to be able to sell your property if you decide you no longer wish to be a part of that HOA?  Ask anybody who had a significant real estate investment in Detroit during the 60's if they got their money back or lost money on their property.  The problem people face, especially in large metros, is that home ownership really isn't a benefit, but rather a liability.The larger point is that no matter how big a city is, when you decide to purchase property within those city limits you are consciously or not joining a "club" or an "association" the members of which consist of the entire city's population.  This population, like a HOA out in the burbs, will determine the quality of life you have, not to mention the ultimate financial cost associated with owning a home in that municipality.  If the people are high quality people, you can expect quality services, a quality standard of living and low HOA's fees.  But if it's the typical vermin that populate our major metros you can expect to pay through the nose for bad roads, crime, people bigoted against conservatives/libertarians, and a perpetuity financial liability that forever will increase, rendering your home worthless.  The choice is yours.  
Daring Your Boss to Fire You 
It is a rare instance, but EVERYnot "most"not "the majority"butEVERY time I've heard of an employee standing up to his boss, even daring him to fire him, it has worked out in the employee's favor.This may sound counter-intuitive, but the empirical evidence I have witnessed thus far does not lie.  EVERY time I've heard or seen an employee stand up and get in the bosses face, sometimes even yelling at them, they have won and the boss has lost.The reasons are a bit convoluted and certainly theoretical, but permit me to posit some. 1.  Because of the progressively decaying nature of our population, the majority of people are at minimum flawed, if not, outright impaired.  The problem is, especially if you are younger, you are conditioned to think people in positions of authority are not.  That they are somehow "special."  That they are somehow unique super-humans that are more intelligent, more experienced, more logical and wiser than you.  That they are immune to this decaying trend.Not by a long shot.The truth is they are no smarter, better, or wiser than you.  Just older.  So convinced of this, I believe nearly 80% of American bosses today are merely bluffing the entire time and engage in such petty office politics antics to hide that fact so you dare don't peak behind the curtain and realize their ineptitude.However, inept incompetent management can only last so long before driving underlings insane.  It's not only illogical, but damaging, not to mention bad management makes employees' jobs impossible to do.  Soon the stress is too much to take for some and they barge into their boss' office reading them the riot act. The boss, rarely if ever facing an angry and more competent underling, buckles and the employee gains some concessions (but never enough to solve the fundamental problems plaguing the firm).2.  Another reason is that deep down inside most bosses know they're bad and incompetent.  Their ego and frontal lobes will work wonders to convince them otherwise, but deep down inside that 50 year old, gray-haired, 30 years of experience man was promoted to a level that is seriously challenging his abilities and competences.  He's barely treading water.  And just like a drop dead gorgeous 24 year old is insecure that she may not be the hottest girl on the block, so too are there underlying and constantly nagging doubts in your boss' head about his competency.  If you challenge them, especially with superior intelligence, factual data, or a different vantage point, you may pierce their thin veil of confidence.3.  Exacerbating this doubt is the fact that most bosses get promoted not through achievement or excellence, but rather compliance, obedience and politicking.  While that makes for "good" employees, those traits are not those of a good leader.  This leads to an irony where the "best" employees are promoted, which is like promoting the most obedient sheep to the position of shepherd.  This results in bosses who are out of their element, again, insecure about themselves, but more importantly really susceptible to an employee whose flown off the handle.  They are the most COMPLIANT people by "natural corporate selection," ergo the last to say no and therefore the quickest to cave.4.  Finally, most corporate cogs in America are deathly afraid of violence.  Even though you may not have the intention of causing your boss physical harm, a person (even a woman) going livid and ripping the boss a new one is such a traumatic event it will shake them to their Darwinistic core.  The worst they've seen is maybe a motorist giving them the bird as they suffer their 90 minute commute in their SUV back to their SWPL suburb to watch the Kardashians and watch Jr. in the school play.  I guarantee you it's a once in a 3 decade career where a furious, violent-ACTING human is screaming 3 inches in front of their face.  Admittedly, sometimes they may choose fight over flight, and that presents a serious legal (and physical) risk.  But again, I've only seen them choose flight.  Admittedly, these are only theories and I really don't know why employees who have it out with their bosses are batting 1.000.  The sad truth is, however, daring your boss to fire you, threatening to go on welfare/unemployment, reading him the riot act, or tearing him down in front of the entire office to see will not achieve anything as you cannot fire your boss.  Your boss will still have his/her position of authority.  And though they may make some concessions, like a drug addict, they are incapable of fundamentally changing and your job will still suck.This means if you have a job with an incompetent boss it pays to mentally check out, not worry about what he says, do your best, and collect that check.  However, if you're like many people where the boss barks contradictory orders, is intolerably inept, and really makes it impossible to do your job, then that job is impossible and ripping your boss a new one called for.Just be prepared to lose your job...and go on the government dole as you live off of his taxes. 
 
Why Most People Just Can't "Go Galt" 
I was listening to The Black Brigade's latest podcast whilst hiking Trapper Peak.  And among their topics de jour was the recurring theme of "going Galt."  This particular instance however, was prompted by local radio show host Jason Lewis walking off the job claiming he had had enough and was no longer going to serve as a host to what is nothing more than the parasites of society.They applauded his decision, as do I, but they then went onto ask the question, "Why don't more talk radio hosts" or "leaders" in the conservative/libertarian movement provide a how to, or actually go Galt themselves?  Matter of fact, why don't just 10% of conservatives, libertarians or as I like to call them "Real Americans" go Galt, crashing this entire corrupt system?Well, lieutenants and economists, I already had the answer before I made it back to the trail head.Understand that the number one thing preventing conservatives and libertarians from going Galt and "starving the beast" is that they are saddled with debt.  This may at first sound odd that conservatives and libertarians would have such finances, but consider the fact that most people incur debt when they are youngerwhich consequently meansmade those decisions to incur debt when they were statistically likely to be more liberaland you can see why even "savvy" conservative/libertarian types just can't "go Galt." If you look at the decisions that result in life's major debts, they are typically made during their "dumbass 20 something leftists phase" ie - before one turns 30.Student loansCredit card/consumer spendingCar loans, and of course the biggest ball and chain of them allMortgages This results in an irony, if not a fiscal tragedy, where future and theoretical "Galtists" who would love nothing more than to go Galt, can't, simply because they are saddled with too much debt FORCING them to remain in the work force till their debts are paid and their mortgage gone.  You add in marriage and children, and your average male "Galtist" can only wistfully pine about going Galt just as much as he can "buying a motorcycle and heading to Sturgis without permission."The result is a phenomenon the Manosphere calls the "Wage Mule" or "Debt Slave."  Stupid decisions made in the past condemn the rest of your life to severely limited choices and potential, effectively ruining your life, and certainly making lofty, idealistic political maneuvers such as "going Galt" an impossibility.There is however, good news.While Gen X may have been the last generation to partially swallow the"HouseCollegeWifeKids"propaganda, Gen Y/the Millenials didn't.  Additionally, a good percentage of Gen X also postponed marriage, or avoided it all together.  In other words, Americans, despite their horrendous stupidity, are actually starting to learn from their predecessors, and with the breaking of the social contract between men and women and default and unconscious "going Galt" is already occurring. Men just aren't proposing as much as they used to and if they do, they wait till they're well into their 30's to do so.  Also, unless you're an illegal immigrant or are too stupid to do basic division and understand the concept of income per capita, people are having less kids.  Thirdly, the economy is so poor, an entire generation has had the forced lesson of minimalism forced on them.  And finally, if you look at labor force participation rates, people are wising up (even feminist-fed women) and realizing that yes, work indeed sucks. In other words, society is slowly "going Galt" as they respond to the perverse and country-destroying policies socialists have enacted upon society.  This may not be the "rapid" "starve the beast TODAY" sort of strategy idealistic Galtists want, but it is to show them that what they wish for is already happening naturally.  Perhaps not at the pace they wanted, but it is happening and it cannot be stopped.  The real issue, however, is one of hope.  Galtists (theoretical or not) deep down inside want to starve the beast TODAY with the hopes that a new society would emerge from the ashes so quickly that they would be able to participate and enjoy said new society during their lifetime.  The problem is that society is too glacial, America too entrenched economically and globally, and our citizenry too fat, stupid and endebted that this will never happen.  Most people alive today will die watching a declining America, not a phoenix from the ashes.  It will be future generations that will witness a reality-forced destruction of socialist America, and a resurrection, if there ever is one.  
 
Why You Really Aren't "Investing" In the Stock Market 
Important economics lesson here boys and girls!What does it mean to "invest?"Well, if you're leftist it means to take other people's money and piss it away on worthless social programs, typically headed up by connected cronies in the non-profit world.  For example we "invest" in our children in the schools, but they don't learn anything and are ranked near Mexico in terms of standardized test scores.  We "invest" in communities by building (Mark Dayton's favorite) "community centers."  they don't do anything but provide a place for bums and poor people to stay warm during winter or have social workers baby sit other people's kids during summer.  In every case, the people who "invested" the money never see a dime of return because...well...the truth is those REALLY AREN'T INVESTMENTS!You see, an investment has to have some kind of rate of return.  Something where you take the money, you INVEST it in something, and that something provides you MORE than what you invested over the course of its life.  If you use this (reality based) definition, you would think this would apply to the stock market.  Your 401k's, your IRA's, your mutual funds!  Those are all REAL investments, right?Oh, you sad, sad goodie, two-shoes, obedient suburbanite conservative SWPL people.So sorry, it is not.You see, the INITIAL trade, the VERY FIRST TIME a brand new stock is sold on the stock market, that is INDEED an investment.  We call this "initial" first time sale an "IPO" or "initial public offering."  This is when a company is looking for investors to finance it.  The company decides to sell some shares in its equity and various institutions, banks, hedge funds and other financial firms pony up the billions of dollars to get in on this "IPO."The proceeds from these IPO's then go to the company which in turn then TRULY AND REALLY invests it.  They buy assets, they buy equipment, the hire people, they build plants.  They and their original financiers make the REAL investment.  But what happens after that?How do you good obedient 401k Clergy people "invest" if the large financial institutions did all the "real" investing already?Well, the answer is - you don't.You see, for a brief moment in time you may accidentally and indirectly hold some original IPO shares through a mutual fund, but over time (quite rapidly actually) those original IPO purchasers do something with those shares they bought directly from the company.They sell them.To who? You, them, each other.Anybody who will pay them more than what they paid for it.Once that happens those shares are no longer actual "investments."  They are merely speculation.This has two ramifications.1.  This means the entirety of the US retirement planning system is based on speculation.  It's not about "investing in a new company" or "investing in an upstart."  The vast majority of retirement dollars are based on the hope that a savvy analyst or mutual fund manager has found a 10% pricing error in a stock that allows him/her to purchase it and ride that 10% increase up before selling it (and charging you 3% managerial fees).  Of course this says nothing about how now that the share of stock is so far removed from the company that it's economic variables that account for the majority of price swings, and so with QE-291 and artificially low rates prompting companies to leverage up and buy back their shares, OH, and let's not forget you 401k mindless zombies throwing trillions into the market every couple years, the stock market has skyrocketed when there's been no real underlying reason for it to.2.  The stock market and economic growth no longer have anything to do with one another. I love it when liberals desperately point to the stock market as if it is some barometer of economic growth, standards of living, or well being in the country.  Nearly everyone under 35 is under/unemployed, we've lost real, fulltime times on a nominal and adjusted for inflation basis, economic growth is lethargy, but hey hotdiggitydoooo!  Dat der stock market broke 17,000!  Obama's a genius!In there's any explanation why the stock market is NOT the economy, it's that the ONLY economic growth to come from the stock market came from those IPO's.  After that money was invested, there was NOT A CENT MORE of economic growth due to the sale of those stocks.  Thus, any price increases (once again) have absolutely no bearing on any new investment going into the real economy.Now, I know, I know.  I'm just a party pooper.I was a party pooper before the Asian currency crisis.I was a party pooper before the Dotcom crash.I was a party pooper before the housing bubbleAnd I was a party pooper before the education bubble.My question is simply this.For all of you who got angry at people who said stocks were overvalued in 1999, that housing was overvalued in 2006, and that liberal arts degrees were worthless in 2009 (and there most certainly were VICIOUSLY and FURIOUSLY angry people I had to contend with back then) were the subsequent crashes and economic recessions worth it?  Would you have preferred to have the crashes over me and people like me trying to tell you the truth?  Or would you have preferred to avoid those recessions and collapses by maybe opening up your thick skulls to entertain something that wasn't bread and circus bullshit spoon-fed to you by politicians, bankers, Oprah, media and all the other "feel good, everything is awesome" establishment types?Wait wait wait.Lemme guess!"This time it's different!?" 
American Bachelors' Financial Legacy Problem 
Friend #1.Multi-millionaire, 52 years old, drives a POS import like I do.  Maybe spends $200 a week on social activities.  Gets his clothes from goodwill or the veterans store.  His only goal in life is to enjoy coffee with his older friends while teaching himself French and Mandarin on the internet.Friend #2.My pilot buddy you are all familiar with.  Probably worth a couple million.  43 years old, no wife, no kids, and is completely dedicated to his company.  Mentioned something about a family...maybe...probably not...but he's more obsessed about cigars and buying a boat that a wife or rugrats.Friend #3Senior pilot who makes over six figures and consults on the side in the aviation world.  No wife, no children, 46 and just hits the gym while traveling the world on his perks.  Owns a nice house in a fine suburb, obsesses over his cash flow even though he is in better financial shape than most any one I know.Which leads me to my observation.With more and more men refusing to marry and breed, there is a permanent "Bachelor Class" forming.  However, an interesting aspect of this "Bachelor Class" is that they are without a doubt the most "wealth forming" class in the world.They have no children.They have no wives.They have no divorce.They have no alimony.They all make damn good moneyand with all that free timeAre pursuing entrepreneurial venturesAnd alas, all those variables and traits mean...They have a ton of cash.I am not rich by any means, but even with my meager earnings, the fact I have no children or wife means I at least have SOME savings.  Pro-rate that into the future and when I die, heirless, there will still be some significant funds to be bequeathed.Thus, while everybody is focused on paying off their student loans, getting out from underneath their mortgage, finally closing their alimony, etc. etc.,  there is this "elite" and "numerous" bachelor class that I (conservatively) estimate will have easily $4 trillion in wealth when they die to pass on.So who, precisely, will inherit it?Well, that depends.I personally plan to split my "estate" between my girlfriend who has treated me kindly and a little varmint like creature that has endeared me to her childish antics.My millionaire real estate friend is so indifferent and complacent he intends to let it fall to the state.My pilot buddy hasn't thought that far, but that's the whole point...You bachelors need to think about what you're going to do with the wealth you've obviously built beyond what you can consume.This is one of those rare problems you "wish you had," but still, your decision today on how to bequeath that money will have an affect on a world that will be after your death.  Ergo, any moral man will want to make the right decision, ensuring his life-time-currency would be put to the most noble use.  Do you donate it to the local "pink ribbon campaign" that has yet to solve...anything?  Do you donate it to the local food shelf to feed people too incompetent to support themselves?  How about your alma mater that will brainwash the youth on rape culture and socialism?  Or do you donate it to some third world African country charity that has never yet solved one problem on that continent?The answer is very simple.Give it to close, loved ones you genuinely cherished in life orburn it.I don't know about you, but there are very few people that deserve my money, let alone the excess money I've earned through the pain and agony I spent learning to earn such money.  And bar a GENUINE charity like St. Jude's Children's program, I'm going to give it to loved ones in my life who were noble, honest and true.  Since this is such a small list of people and said monies run the risk of spoiling them, that means there would still be a significant amount of money left over.  And with no obviously deserving heir to it, I will most likely burn it. You must look at what you suffered as an American bachelor.  You're privileged because you're male.  You pay more in taxes for children that aren't yours.  You're accused on sexual harassment if you merely look at a girl.  And you're supposed to work all the hard, risky, dangerous and math-impaired jobs while the opposite number complains about a "wage gap."  It's not just the ungratefulness, but hypocrisy and parasitism of society that disqualifies them from deserving any of this $4 trillion so it's upon you (and all bachelors) to set up a will that ensues the money only goes to deserving people, leaving none for the society that viewed you as a personal financial slave and whipping boy.It may sound wasteful and insane, and certainly you could find enough deserving people of your post-mortem estate.  But if it comes to it I'd rather have my money burn than give it to some welfare WIC receiving single mom of 4 who thinks she's entitled to 4 decades worth of my toiling.  You must also consider your future finances as such. 
There Are No Such Things as Financial Markets Anymore 
Let us take a very simple concept.Bill wants to raise money for his new company that he, personally, does not have enough money to launch.  Bill goes to the "financial markets" which is no different than the fruit market or "farmer's market" except instead of fruit or veggies, he is looking for capital.Providers of capital (called "investors") meet and bid over Bill's business through a slightly complicated process of "going public" which is assisted by investment banks and brokerages.  Still, this market operates no different than any other.  There is a demander for capital, there are suppliers for capital, and they haggle and negotiate on a price.Now in the farmer's market or even the grade-school-play-ground-baseball card market the only things to affect the prices, supply, and demand would be items that are relevant and pertinent to those markets and the wares traded therein.  And so too should it be the same with the financial markets.  But just because something "should" be doesn't mean it is, and thus welcome to our modern day "financial markets."The truth is the financial markets no longer represent the news and information that is relevant to stocks, bonds, and other forms of financing new or to-be-acquired businesses.  And the reasons for this are multi-fold.First, the majority of money being supplied into the market no longer comes from interested investors, keen on launching new companies. It comes from retirement planners who are socking away their monies in the idealistic and outlandishly naive hopes of retiring by 65 (33 if you're a government worker or teacher).  Matter of fact, these sheeple aren't even investing their money in new business ventures.  They're buying stock on the secondary market, looooong after investment banks and hedge funds have gotten the majority of equity and capital gains out of those stocks.Second, you have speculators who have no real legitimate business being in the financial markets in the first place.  Oh yes yes, I know, they do make markets more efficient, except when they don't.  Their mere existence moots and destroys the concept of a financial market in the first place.  Now, instead of just investors looking to supply budding entrepreneurs with capital, you have some idiot in California using an ECN to make .0005 cents per share profits on a butterfly, triple lindee, hybrid spread (if you don't know what that is, that's alright, you're not hip like all those people on CNBC). Third, machines.  Yes, machines.  Specifically machines that execute trades based on algorithms perhaps maybe even programmed by humans.Are these machines there to provide business opportunities with capital?Are these machines there to fund entrepreneurial ventures with much needed funds?No, they're, once again, there to speculate, even manipulate prices, driving them up and then driving them down.Now we can go on, but I didn't really realize how fully divorced today's "financial markets" were from its literal namesake until I was driving down I4 near Orlando listening to "A Finance Podcast."The host of the show had followed me on Twitter and said, while he does like what I say, he cannot tolerate the cursing or swearing.  Fair enough, but I, always with a road trip in front of me and hours of time to fill, downloaded and listened to all of his podcasts.  It wasn't until I was just outside Orlando did I realize something about his podcast.The majority of his commentary and interviewees did NOT discuss the actual financial markets as much as they were:Government movesGovernment legislation andCentral bankingAnd it is this that is the proof that the financial markets are anything but, and should be named something else.If you look at the media currently dedicated towards covering the "financial markets," you have to ask yourself the question:"How much time do they spend addressing/responding to moves by the governments and central banks, versus the factors that actually should affect the companies and the industries therein????"And at least in this little trial balloon, I realized that the majority or at least the plurality of time was spend addressing governments and central banking.This proves just how far from free markets we've moved.  When the "financial" markets move, nay, hinge on every word and move from the central bank and monetary policy, and dismiss all that annoying "background noise" of what's actually going on with the individual company, you need to ask precisely what does this "market" represent. Does it represent the investors looking to fund the entrepreneurs like it was intended to?Or has it morphed into this multi-trillion dollar, amorphous, cross-breed Frankenstain monster between government, the retirement planning industry, central banking, crony capitalists, and politicians?Because one can be reasonably measured, studied and pursued as a discipline by students of finance and economics.The second is one where even the greatest financial and economics minds are merely observers whose guesses are purely that - guesses.  Because by that time, they all might as well become political scientists and everybody knows that is not a real nor legitimate field of study.  
If People Didn't Have Debt 
$15,000 is an interesting number because it is one I estimated with my head, but then also empirically proved out for several years of frugal, minimalist living.  Specifically, it's the lowest amount of money a person can live on comfortably in the US.This assumes a lot of things.That you don't have an insane commute.You only have yourself to support.You eat in and host at home most the time.You go out occasionally.You take a cheap road trip once a year.The primary form of your entertainment is friends and conversation.You never buy a new car.And, you never buy frivolous (read-luxury) items.When it's all said and done a single person can get by in the US, comfortably for $15,000 a year and enjoy a full and wonderful live.Of course when I published this figure in various books, people would challenge me, questioning whether it was possible, even daring to doubt my veracity.  But trust you me, I went through the hell and penny pinching.  It's possible and it's well within everybody's ability to do it.But $15,000 also happens to be a very interesting number in another regard.  For while sitting at my other bar I noticed an advertisement for a mortgage company.  And then an ad for a car.  And so I quickly hit the internet, found some online calculators, and started crunching some numbers.  Specifically, the TOTAL debt payments one makes over the course of their lives.  Naturally, this varies person to person so I assumed what I believed to be the "average" American who takes on debt for these specific things at these specific terms:House$250,000 mortgage30 year term4.5% fixed rateCars$20,000 auto loan5 year term7% fixed12 cars over the course of your lifeStudent Loans$80,000 (includes what you paid without loans)20 year term (or whenever the hell people get around to paying those things off)6% fixedCredit Card Debt$4,000 balance assumed in perpetuityForever term16% fixedBalance nominal from 15 till 75Now, when you calculate the total loan payments for these four items you get:House                     $456,000Cars                        $280,368Student  Loans       $137,554Credit Card            $33,600And when you add them all up you get:$907,000Now a funny thing about that number is if you take it and divide it by the number of years you're expected to live as an adult (60) you get $15,125.***And what do you know?  If you just refuse to take on debt for things like cars, education, houses, credit cards, and crap, you'll save yourself the necessary amount of money needed to support yourself for your entire life.Of course, astute economists will point out that the numbers do not account for inflation.  And normal everyday Americans will point out who wants to live a life making $7.50 an hour  Valid points, but let me address them.First, while absolutely 100% right, those figures don't count for inflation, they actually kind of do.  Cars you are constantly buying at higher and higher prices so we could just assume that $280,000 is adjusted for inflation.  Credit cards, well those balances will also rise with inflation, thus, adjusted for it.  And how many people buy just "one house," never buying newer or better, never refinancing, never taking equity out of the home to improve the kitchen?  Yes, that's what I thought.  About the only that isn't adjusted for inflation is tuition, but even that I wonder about given how corporations and employers are now all just so pro-"continuing education" forcing people a life long financial burden of never having to stop paying for education and training.  The point is, even if we were to adjust for inflation, that number would still come darn close to the $15,000 mark.Second, the life style $15,000 a year affords.Yes, who indeed wants that?  Why men with used cars that need repairing, living in studio apartments, never enjoying fondue at the latest and hippy trendy restaurant, who go to (GASP!) Goodwill to get their clothes!?  What kind of a life is that?Certainly not one where they commute 500 hours a year, in a car they can barely afford the insurance on, to a job they hate, while they finance the hockey equipment for the children they can (also) barely afford, forcing both parents to work, while alienating their children in day care (also, barely can afford), driving the wife to divorce the husband, but not first without her racking up $20,000 in credit card debt for trinkets and bobbles she just needed to have, while dad buys himself a new Corvette to cope with the destruction of his family, and now two ex's who hate each other both fork over $50,000 a piece for lawyers so they can squabble over the remaining $5.83 in equity in their palatial McMansion.You're right, they most certainly CANNOT afford that.  They can only afford books, conversation, coffee with friends, fishing, and black and white movies on Netflix.The point is simply this (and one I think we already know).  If Americans simply got by with what they needed and not what they wanted, they would never have to take on any debt of any kind in the first place.  This would not only result in much easier and less stressful lives, but lives where you would not have to waste 4-8 years of your youth in college, making college obsolete for many.  The real issue many people have to solve for themselves is whether having "nice, but ultimately, pointless" things in life is worth the hell, struggle, strife, burden, stress, and pain the required debts to afford those things will foist on them.  And given what I've seen of average Americans and their obsession with "late model German cars" and "brand designer jeans," it most certainly is not.
What "Six Figures" Means Today 
"Six figures."Hadn't heard that term in a while...that was until I was the unfortunate bystander to a "dude-bro-douche wedding" as I sat in my hotel lobby availing myself of the free internet. Upon hearing that, sure enough, I looked up from my laptop, and there was your stereotypical frat boy about to take the first step towards getting divorced get married, drunkenly slurring to the security guard about how much he made and she didn't (there will be a VERY interesting story about this in my upcoming podcast)."Dude, you know how much I make!?  SIX FIGURES!  How much do you make 'Ms. Security Guard????'"So the ole Captain decided to do a little research on the FRED database at the federal reserve to see just how much "Six Figures" was nowadays in terms of "Cappy Dollars."This presented some minor, but technical problems as there is not universal year in which "six figures" actually meant something.  But since your ole Captain knew that was a lot of money when he graduated from college (in 1997) he decided to arbitrarily use that year as a base and make some calculations and observations from there.First, "six figures" which was no doubt a princely sum back in 1997, is worth no more than $67,700 today.  Certainly a decent wage for a late 20's/early 30's douche, but not what it meant back in 1997, and certainly nothing to be bragging about to a security guard protecting your drunk frat boy ass at his own wedding. 

Second, if you felt compelled to actually make what the equivalent purchasing power of six figures meant back when it meant something, you would have to make $147,500 today to earn those bragging rights.
But the two charts above also point out some interesting observations and the effects of inflation.As a returning WWII vet, if you made "six figures" in 1947, you were boss.  It would be like making $743,000 today.If you were a baby boomer, making "six figures" during Ford's administration, you were pulling down the equivalent of $300,000 today.But sadly, with the effects of inflation, compound/exponential math, today's young "go getters" and "business leaders," "six figures" really doesn't mean anything anymore as it is now an obsolete metric of success, wealth, and income.  You only make $67,700.So today, if you're going to brag to people about how you make "six figures."  Realize that's like saying to all generations and people before you,"I'm solid middle management."You aren't rich.You aren't special.And you certainly don't have the right to be degrading people who make less than you 
Why Entrepreneurship May Be the Only Feasible Retirement Plan 
I had faced a problem.For the first time in a while, the ole Captain had enough money saved up that he could start thinking about throwing some money in the ole IRA.You might at first think this is not a problem.  But it is, young aspiring economist.  It is.  For the problem facing anybody under 65 who still has a bit of life expectancy left is:Precisely what do you invest your money in?All of you know my general concern that money coming from:1.  Retirement dollars of baby boomers and Gen X2.  Quantitative easing money being injected into the financial markets and3.  Low interest rates prompting a trillion dollars worth of buy backsis jacking up stock and other asset prices that there's effectively no good deals out there.The PE ratio shows the stock market overvalued by almost half:

This results in a dividend yield of LESS THAN 2%

Housing only pays a whopping 4% today (and that's if you don't consider repairs and expenses)

And even an investment like education increasingly fails to generate the returns necessary to validate it.
Alas, today's investor is faced with the following effective REAL rates of return:Stocks 0%Savings -1%Real Estate 2-3%Education - HA HA HA HA HA!!!!!Now naturally, many of you are saying,"Wait!  0%???  The stock market has been booming!!!  How do you get 0%?"Well, inquiring young mind, I'll tell you.You see, there is no such thing as capital gains.  The real rate of return stocks (or any other investment for that matter) provides is the income or profit is generates.Housing generates rentsBond generate interestAnd stocks generate dividendsHowever, ever since we thought it'd be a grand idea to designate stocks, bonds and other marketable securities as the default investments for our IRA's and 401k's back in 1978, stocks have gone up NOT based on their profitability, but by simply how many trillions of dollars-worth of mindless sheeple's money they throw into their 401k's accounts every paycheck.Microsoft hasn't paid a dividend since it's existence?Screw it, buy more.  The price might go up!The S&P pays less than a Kaazaa account?Screw it, buy more!  The price might go up! Tinder or Twitter don't generate income at all!!!???Screw it, buy more!  The price might go up!  IT'S AN IPO!!!And so why we see the above ABYSMAL and PETTY REAL rates of return for the various asset classes.So where precisely is somebody who demands an adequate rate of return to invest their money?Sadly, it looks like entrepreneurship may be the only place to go.It wasn't until I was having a conversation with my dad while running did I notice that even with all the tax benefits and government incentives to invest in IRA's and 401k's, the best use of my money is sadly to reinvest it in my various ventures.If I drop $500 advertising my books on the Tom Leykis Show, I on average double my money.  If I drop $100 advertising Asshole Consulting on Viva la Manosphere, I get about a 60% rate of return.And if I drop $200 running ads on Marginal Revolution for my books, I get about a 70% rate of return.Naturally of course, I don't enjoy any of the tax benefits on these investments that come with the government ordained IRA's and 401k's.But so what?  Even adjusting for taxes, investing in your own private ventures generates MUCH higher rates of return than the government approved investments for your retirement account.Tom Leykis post tax rate of return = 75%Stocks (still) = 0%Viva La Manosphere post tax rate of return = 45%Bonds = 1.2%Marginal Revolution post tax rate of return = 50%Real estate = (post property taxes, repairs, insurance, etc.) -5%Now naturally key to all of this is to get a product or a business in place where expending such money on advertising, equipment, etc., would generate such returns.  And I will be the first to admit that that is not easy.  For every successful business I have, I have at least 2-3 that have failed, and that says nothing of the labor put into researching, trying and deploying these ideas.  But all those drawbacks aside, returns are so non-existent in today's financial markets, you may not have a choice.  It is a mathematical impossibility to rely on today's conventional retirement planning tenet of "compounding rates of return" when those rates are effectively at or near 0%.  Ergo, it practically behooves you to have your hand at entrepreneurship and see if you can't make up your retirement from scratch.Of course, most people will point out and say, "Not everybody can be entrepreneurs!  If we all became entrepreneurs there'd be no workers or economy!"Thankfully, nowhere near "everybody" reads Captain Capitalism.Now if you'll excuse me, I'm going to go and work on my next business idea.  
Making Debt Payments Tax Deductible for IRA's & 401k's 
The left and the right will rarely agree on anything in that their ideologies are simply and fundamentally diametrically opposed to one another.  The result is two parties that are trying to install their own version of "utopia" and we get a dysfunctional hybrid mix of both (eg. Obamacare).  Naturally, the people are not served best they could be, but every great once in a while there is an issue all people from all political stripes can agree upon as it would benefit everybody in the nation.And I have happened upon one of these rare ideas.Make any principal payments of debt (specifically on mortgages and student loans) qualify as legitimate contributions to people's IRA and 401k accounts.The arguments for this are so simple and so compelling that I will be putting together a petition in that I truly believe all congressional members and President Obama would sign this into law.  However, my optimism no doubt will be rebuked by some naysayer in Washington or some mortgage banking industry lobbyist.  However, hear me out and tell me precisely how this could possibly fail, and if you agree, I would appreciate spreading the word as this will genuinely help the country.First, it will provide an incentive to improve nearly everybody's personal finances.  As it stands right now Americans are woefully prepared for retirement and have horrible personal finances.  Paying down debts earlier and faster will only help to shore up their finances making it easier to squirrel away money for retirement at a sooner point of time in the future than if they just kept "borrow borrow borrow."Second, if you look at nearly all the various asset classes that do qualify as a tax deductible investments for IRA's or 401k's, they provide very LOW AND POOR rates of return.  I am ignoring capital gains on this, as once again there are no such things as capital gains.  However, if you look at what type of interest rates bonds and savings accounts are paying today (0% when you adjust for inflation) and what kind of rate of return dividends are paying on stocks (2%, again, 0% when you adjust for inflation) you'll see these asset classes are so overvalued that there is no real rate of return (except for dem der "magical" capital gains).  However, there is a MUCH better rate of return when it comes to paying off your mortgage or student loans.  Both roughly average around 4%, twice the average of what nearly every other security is paying out there.Third, it's risk free.  When you invest in a stock you could be investing in the next Enron.  When you invest in a bond, you could be investing in the next Greek oops, I mean US, oops I mean, Argentinian swindle.  However, since it is YOU who are the one that is at risk of not paying back the loan, there is no risk in you paying off your own debt early.  That rate of return is guaranteed not by the "full backing and faith of the US government," but rather the irrefutable laws of mathematics.Finally, it's moral.  Businesses get to deduct R&D and construction expenses as a cost of doing business.  But today we ask young kids to load up on tens of thousands of dollars in debt just so they have the right to maybe apply to maybe be considered to maybe be contemplated to maybe be called into an interview to maybe...maybe, that is, get offered a job.  However, while young college students are merely doing what businesses do (building up a product - their skills - to sell to an employer/client) they do not get to deduct these crippling expenses from their taxes, while businesses do.  If there was any morality in the country (not to mention a desire to win the youth vote while not alienating conservative voters at the same time), allowing principal payments on tuition to be tax deductible would be on every upcoming presidential candidate's platform.In short, all I am pointing out is that another asset class (paying down one's debt) should be added to:stocksbondsmutual fundsoptionsETF's, andREIT'sas a qualified tax-deductible contribution for people's IRA's and 401k's.Admittedly, no asset would be purchased and thus "stored" in these retirement accounts for later, however, I contend providing the same tax treatment to such principal reduction payments will go a lot further in improving people's personal finances and helping them adequately prepare for retirement.Please sign the petition here and please also forward this to others as we need 100,000 signatures and I truly believe this is such a no-brainer it will actually get implemented.  
Self Employ or Die 
It is now approaching 8 years that the country suffered the 2007 financial crisis and has since been stuck in the slow-growth doldrums of Keynesian mediocracy and "new normalcy."  Despite trillions in stimulus spending and QE monies, the (largely) left's attempts to spur economic growth have failed.  During Obama's administration GDP has grown around a paltry 1.8% per year, unemployment (if you believe the official figures) is just now below a recessionary 6%, and labor force participation has dropped to its worst measure since the last worst recession (The Volcker Recession).However, while the macro-economic picture is bad, it doesn't tell half the story for younger people.  And that story is a horrible one.Unemployment for youth is double that of the national average.  Labor force participation hasn't be this low since the FIRST oil embargo in the 70's.  And (depending on which measures you want to use) UNDERemployment for the "most educated" generation in the history of America is anywhere between 30-50%.  And this says nothing about the trillion+ dollar student loan albatross hanging around their necks.The irony of course is that this generation did it to themselves.  They voted for Obama.  They "hated" on corporations.  They launched the OWS protests.  And they Venn diagram heavily with the parasites of society who euphemistically call themselves "SJW's."  There is no generation that hates capitalism, economic growth, economic progress, and success more than today's young.  However while they did pull the trigger and it is is "technically" their own fault, it wasn't as if they weren't completely brainwashed into doing so.  The young did not grow up in a vacuum, uninfluenced by parents, teachers, media, politicians, and TV.  They are a byproduct of the previous generations.  And so while they did indeed vote against their own economic interests twice (and with Bernie Sanders, maybe a third, even fourth time) you can't blame them too much given the leftist indoctrination and complete lack of economic and financial fundamentals Gen X and the Baby Boomers failed to teach them.However, the Millennials are no longer the doey eyed 18 year olds they were when they first voted for Obama in 2008.  Nor are they the infatuated 22 year old female masters student with the VT's for Obama when they voted for him again in 2012.  They are now a generation completely lost because all the promises and guarantees the previous generations told them are not coming true.  And for the first time in their lives they are facing the full costs and consequences of being led to make the stupid decisions they did in the past.  It is here they are finding out they've been living a lie and the real world is completely different than what they were told.It is here there is a fork in the road and an important one for them.  For they have the choice to start listening to the Knowledgesphere-harsh truths, facts and reality evil, blunt jerks like me spew on a daily basis, or simply double down on their indoctrinated religion of leftism, stick their heads in the sand, and continue to live the lies they were told to believe, consequently ruining their one, finite life on this planet forever.And I think if you're here, you're thankfully in the former.If that's the case then there is an important lesson you need to learn.  For it's about your only shot at happiness, true financial success, and a life that was infinitely better than the one you've lived thus far.  However, it requires that we look back and admit that what you were told was wrong.  And not only was it wrong, but the people that told you it had no clue what they were talking about.  We need to realize these people are living lives just as sucky as yours AND ALSO admit taking "conventional wisdom" that applied in the past does not apply into the future.  We need to be forward looking, proactive and realistic, and develop strategies and make decisions based on these real world observations, all to salvage what remains of our lives.In short, you must self employ or die.On my latest western adventure I had lunch with a friend of mine on a main street in a small Minnesota town.  He was telling me the story about how his dad worked for one of the largest airlines in America, until it went bankrupt.  It emerged out of bankruptcy, but the pension he had worked so hard for was wiped out.  The poor man is now underwater on his mortgage and relies on my buddy to support him.On a less personal note, one of my most hated cities, Detroit, has gone through a similar such scenario.  Not necessarily the actual city of Detroit, but its delusional and spoiled brat government workers who were promised insane pensions on the financial back of a dying leftist town.  No matter what promises were uttered by the latest criminal-cum-mayor, in the end math and reality reigned supreme and thousands of former city employees are facing a fraction of what they were promised for pensions.I could go on, but the points are clear.1.  The traditional life cycle of employment previous generations lived by no longer works and is no longer in effect.  You will NOT find that life-long job at the local factory where you put in your 30 years and get your golden watch and pension.  You are lucky to be working as a barrista and often for many young people today Uber and Lyft are the best employment options you have.2.  The previous generations have absolutely no freaking clue what they're talking about.  Not only did they lead two full generations towards the path of life long poverty, debt, and underemployment, they themselves have so piss-poorly managed this nation you now have a country with 110% debt to GDP, a 7 year old recession, a housing bubble, a Dotcom bubble, a retirement bubble, and oh yeah, they're still blindsided by pensions not being funded AND no more than 10% of them have adequately saved for their own retirement.And finally,3.  No form of employment is safe.  It's one thing if a traditionally leveraged and risky industry like airlines file for bankruptcy.  But when government pensions can't even be honored it shows you there is NO employer who can be relied upon to pay for your retirement, let alone keep you employed.  You are just one CEO's-trophy-wive's-demand-for-a-horse-farm away from getting laid off.  One moronic bankster-inflated asset bubble bursting away from losing your job.  And just one rating-agency's-downgrade-of-your-municipal-employer's-bonds away from losing your pension.In short no place in America today is a consistent and reliable source of employment.But dire as America's labor market is today for young people, this only speaks to the reliability of employment.  It says NOTHING about the working environment that results when you have such an oversupply of desperate labor juxtaposed against weak demand for it.  Specifically, an intolerable and hostile work environment where employers are becoming increasingly petty, controlling, manipulative, and sadistic.Forget requiring an MBA and 5 years experience for an entry level job.  Forget 5 stages of interviews, 2 with HR ditzes, and 3 with increasingly incompetent levels of management.What if you actually get hired?So untenable and fragile is your employment today it isn't enough that you merely perform well at your job.  You need to navigate the insane and illogical labyrinth of office politics and managerial pscyhology.  You need to walk on eggshells.  You need to anticipate and forecast the inconsistent, psychotic, and always changing demands of all "stakeholders"  You need to "kiss the ring" of your employer and dance like a good little monkey.Alas, merely showing up on time and giving 110% isn't enough.You need "diversity training."You need to donate to the United Way.You need to commute to the new office 90 minutes away. You need to attend company functions on the weekend.You need "sexual harassment training."You need to "walk to raise awareness for ADHDHHDDHDDDD" You need to "give us your facebook password."You need to "smile more at work."You need your "flair."You need to "come in on the weekend."And above all else, you need to avoid right leaning politics.  Either through donations, public forums, or your right to freedom of association.  Otherwise you will be doxxed, you will be fired, or magically a "sexual harassment case" will be made against you.  And your career, no matter how far along you are to retirement, will be ruined.It is these two traits - the mathematical/economic impossibility of a traditional career, combined with the literally psychotic and totalitarian environment employers have become - that makes the only acceptable form of employment in your life self employment.  You must self-employ, or you will mentally die.Of course a lot of people don't think self-employment is for them.  They're not the "entrepreneurial type."  They like the "comfort" of working for somebody else.  And to that I say "tough."  Because you are operating under the premise that you have a choice.  Yes, technically you do have a choice, but so bad has the employment prospects and employment environment become, that it practically forces you into self-employment.  However, if you consider the pros and cons of self-employment against traditional employment, it will hopefully at least make a convincing argument for self-employment and at least provide you the incentive to "get into the entrepreneurial mindset."First, you eliminate the issue of reliable employment.  You are your own boss and thus you have your own best interests at heart.  You will be the best boss you ever had and will treat yourself better than any boss you will ever have.  You will not outsource your job to India.  You won't sue yourself for sexual harassment.  You won't "choose to go another direction" when times get tough.Second, mental health.  In being your own employer you won't have to endure the petty Baby Boomer boss antics of "predict my mind or else we'll fire you."  Or "I told you this, but I really wanted you to do that."  Or "I'm a 20 something brainwashed girl and am offended by everything and will file harassment complaints all the time."  Or (my all time favorite game) "I Know We Said Your Job Would Be X, But Now that You Signed a Year Lease and MOved Here, It's Going to Be Y."In short, all the mental BS, lies, and gimmickry is gone.Third, efficiency.  Closely related to mental health is the fact that most employees want to do their best.  However, because more value is placed on conformance and ass-kissing than ass-kicking, being an efficient and productive employee gets you nowhere.  When you're the boss it is all efficiency all the time.  No games, no politics, no chicanery.  Every decision you get to make is 100% efficient AND 100% IMMEDIATE.  There is no "waiting for approval" or "waiting for the green light" from your boss.  The mental health alone that comes with the feeling of "getting stuff done" is amazing and rewarding. Fourth, no commute. I know the aged, Baby Boomer powers that be who are desperately clinging onto the reigns of power believe this is a myth, but you don't have to commute. Matter of fact, most jobs can be done from home (unless of course you pursue a trade type form of self employment).  This not only frees up time but drastically improves your mental health, your physical health, AND dramatically improves your family life.  More time with the kids, more time with the wife, more time on the boat, more time playing catch.  And its amazing how if you get rid of a commute you get rid of your chances for divorce.And finally, five, better finances.In being self employed you can write off a whole host of things you normally can't as a wage slave.  Travel, computers, office space, insurance, etc., it usually compensates for the fact you have to pay your full social security tax.  However, the tax write offs are not the key financial benefit of self employment.  It is the long term asset you are building up that cannot be confiscated nor stolen from you (unless the communists take over).The government can rescind the tax benefits,, even confiscate your 401k or IRA.The government can inflate away or just refuse to pay your social security.And your employer can (as we noted before) just go bankrupt and not pay you your pension.However, your company, your network of clients, your expertise and everything else that goes into generating income from it cannot.  In building your own company you create a system that is mobile, non-confiscatable, and unable to be rescinded like a pension or social security.  That system can continue to generate income no matter what happens to social security, and (if done right) can be sold for more money than what 95% of Americans have in their "retirement accounts."  If you're self employed, you won't have to sit there for 30 years post retirement worrying about whether "Montgomery Wards" is "going to make it" for the next 30 years.  You just need to know that "Bob's Roofing" is running well under your son, "Bob Jr." as he pays you your 30% cut of profits and you retire down south on a beach.But for all the pros (nay, compunction) of self-employment, there will be one final predictable argument against self-employment.  And that is"We all can't be self employed."And you're right.  We all can't.Thankfully, despite the pure awesomeness of me and this blog, we are still a small minority when it comes to the general American population and interwebz.  Because of the statistics of the bell distribution curve the average reader here is smarter than 93% of the population who are too busy being lemmings, watching daytime TV, Ellen, The View, Sports Center, Meet the Press, CNBC, The Kardashians, and "24/7 Bruce Jenner Saga Drama Show."  They lack the intelligence, ingenuity, incentive, drive, rigor, and determination to become successful entrepreneurs and (thankfully) will serve as those tortured wage slaves at Initech or McDonald's so we don't have to,.  And better yet, they will indebt themselves to that miserable existence TO BUY OUR STUFF.Alas, we are compelled to become self-employed.  Not just because economics and reality mandates us.  Not just because it's the most basic self-respecting thing you can do for yourself.  But because if not us, then who? 
Precisely How Much Silver Do You Need Post-Collapse? 
A concept I try to explain to either friends, clients, family members, or random hot chicks I try to seduce with my awesome economic knowledge on the street is that you don't need "that much" silver in order to hedge against an economic collapse.The logic is simple.If there was an economic collapse, all fiat currencies (ie - all major world currencies) would become worthless and an alternative currency (nearly practically guaranteed to be precious metals) would HAVE TO rise to replace them.  This "last currency standing" would be the default world reserve currency and it's supply would then have to (by necessity) purchase all of the "post-economic collapse" world's GDP.  And though that GDP would be less, there is far less precious metals in circulation to purchase said remaining GDP.  This increase in the ratio of "production to currency" would increase the value of the world's supply of precious metals and is why you don't need "$1 million in silver" to insure $1 million today's assets.Of course, this logic does not translate into precise mathematical figures and still leaves open the question,"Well, if I have $500,000 in assets today, how much silver (or gold) would I need to purchase to effectively insure against an economic collapse?"So I looked into it and though the numbers are of course VERY back-of-napkin, I think I've come up with a pretty good rule of thumb most people can operate by.Assume first, that during an economic collapse the world's GDP would shrink by 80%.  This would leave only $15 trillion left of the world's current $74 trillion in GDP in annual economic production.Assume second, that the current world supply of silver of 1.4 million tons does not dramatically change AND that it is preferred over gold as gold is too precious (I know this is not a valid assumption, but just work with me on the math).  When converted to ounces this results in 44.8 million ounces of silver, the effective world's money supply to purchase said annual post-economic collapse production of $15 trillion.Using simple division we get a value of $330.36 per ounce.As I write this right now, the spot price of silver is $15.10 per ounce.  So buying one ounce of silver today would buy (under a post-economic collapse economy) $330.36 tomorrow.  Essentially a ratio of 22 to 1.Of course, this does not speak to the fact that the world's remaining silver supply would not just buy one year's worth of post-apocalyptic world's GDP.  It would buy the world's GDP into the future until an alternative currency would replace it.  Ergo, if one wanted to be mathematically "correct" about it, you would take the NPV of that ounce of silver's purchasing power.  Here it's anybody's guess as to the "discount rate" one would use in a perpetuity calculation (don't worry if you didn't understand that, it's to get the finance nerd-technicalitists off my ass).  But applying a heavily discounted rate of 30% that would imply a purchasing power in today's dollars of $1,100.  A full ratio of 73.Meaning for every $1 in silver you buy today you would have a theoretical insurance of $73 in a post-economic collapse future.Now naturally silver will not be the sole currency left.  And naturally the discount rate is not going to be 30%.  And naturally, we don't know if global GDP would collapse by just 80%.  But somewhere between a ratio of 22 and 73 is likely the value of "insurance" silver would provide in a post-economic collapse world.I say, for the sake of simplicity, let's just take the average and call it 48.So to translate all this economic mumbo jumbo into English for normal people, this is the take away:If you have $500,000 in network and want to insure it against an economic collapse,Divide it by 48, and that's how much in silver you need to buy today.Again, just a rough measure.  But a measure most thinking folk should consider.And always, remember, Enjoy the Decline!  
Why Davis Aurini is Better Than Your 401k: AKA Micro-Equity Investments 
I faced a problem I never had before in my life.  After investing in silver, guns, bullets, iodine pills, my house, even body armor, and after trying my best to blow the remainder on my version of "hookers and blow" (American west road trips), for the first time in my life I actually had money left over to invest in an IRA.Now many of you know my personal opinions about IRA's, 401k's, RRSP's and other retirement plans.   Not only do I fear the risk they will be confiscated like they were in Argentina, Bulgaria, Poland, and more recently Cyprus, but I also plain just refuse to pay the current prices being demanded in today's stock market.Today I am expected to fork over $23 for $1 in earnings, which in actuality only entitles me to a paltry 2% dividend yield (ie- the only REAL rate of return, not the magic paper "capital gains" everybody fawns over).  And forget bonds as they're offering rates of return as paltry as stocks.  So where, precisely, is the Ole Captain supposed to park his money?Why, Davis Aurini of course!At first you may be scratching your head, wondering if Davis has started a new corporation you can invest in or if he's selling himself into slavery.  But there is a very good reason I invested in Davis Aurini instead of an IRA.  And if I go through some of the numbers you will most likely be guaranteed to agree with me. First, I didn't invest in "Davis Aurini."  I hired him to do a project for me.  Specifically, I paid him $1,000 to record the audio book version of "Bachelor Pad Economics" because not only does he have the voice for it, he is a pro and I know he will get the job done.  So it's not like I bought his servitude for the next couple of months and get a percentage of his future earnings.Second, that investment will likely give me a rate of return that will beat out all the investment pros in Wall Street, Peter Schiff, Warren Buffett, and anybody else who has an impressive track record.  If my audio book sales of Worthless is any indication, I can expect to clear $120 a month in audio book sales of "Bachelor Pad Economics."  50% of which I pay out to Aurini for his work.  This nets me $720 per year and thus a 72% annual rate of return.  Again, beating out the majority of Wall Street professionals by far.  And, third, this is nearly 100% under my control.  Unlike stocks, bonds, REIT's or other securities, I'm not throwing my money into some large multi-billion dollar corporation with 100,000 employees and millions of moving parts, effectively casting my fate to the wind. I pay Davis.Davis records the book.We upload the files.I market the book.Collect underpants.Profit!!!In short, I am getting an infinitely higher rate of return for a microscopic fraction of the risk and it's all thanks to our Canuckian friend, Davis Aurini.Now, naturally, while a 72% rate of return is phenomenal, on a meagerly principal investment of only $1,000 it's not going to bring about early retirement.  Additionally, I am well aware that I am in a unique position able to hock my wares leveraging Davis and the internet to realize this 72% rate of return.  But eccentric as my investment strategy is, there are lessons for your everyday Joe when it comes to investing.  Lessons you may want to heed.First, the market is so overvalued for anybody looking into government sponsored retirement plans it's just not worth it.  For the past four decades trillions of dollars in retirement money has been flooding the stock market driving up prices WELL above what the earnings and dividends warrant.  You throw in the added 2-4 trillion dollars recently in QE money and ZIRP-financed corporate buybacks, and the stock markets no longer reflect an investment opportunity, but irrelevant numbers that speak more to inflation, government policy, and central banking policy than earnings, profits, dividends, and future growth.Second, this then forces the SAVVY investor (ie-one who looks at rates of return and not just "super happy funny magic capital gains on paper") to look at alternative investments.  Ones that provide higher rates of return and compel you to part with your money.  But since the public markets are horrendously overvalued, it is the private markets we must look at.Peer to peer lending.Lending money to friends.Investing in a small business.Taking a crack at entrepreneurship yourself.Crowd funding.Hiring out the Davis Aurini's of the world.And other forms of "micro-equity investing."This isn't to say these investments are not without risk, or that you wouldn't risk straining and alienating friendships violating Shakespeare's "neither a lender nor a borrower be."  But the public markets are so overvalued that the only real investments that are worth a damn are these private, micro-equity, entrepreneurial type investments.  Third, these returns are typically so much higher than the rates of return you realize in public investments that they more than pay for the tax benefits you passed up on in 401k's, IRA's, etc. You didn't get to write off your IRA contribution at the tax rate of 20%?Good thing that small, private investment pays 30%.That Roth IRA would have grown tax free at a whopping annual rate of 8%?Good thing your private investment grows at 20% more than offsetting any capital gains tax you'd have to pay.Admittedly, there is no guarantee that your private investments will more than compensate for the opportunity costs of tax benefits that come with government endorsed retirement plans, but the difference between returns can be that wide.Fourth, as I mentioned before, control.I can't go to Apple's corporate headquarters and talk to their limp-wristed CEO.You can't go to Starbucks and chat with their American-hating, leftist CEO.And neither of us have the connections nor the money to vote in even ONE member of the board of directors to reflect our interests.However, if I lend money to my friend to purchase a rental property, I can put it in the contract that I have significant say and control over the management of that property.If you invest in the horse farm down the road (though I'd advise against that), you can stop in and check in on the employees to ensure they're doing whatever it is that makes horse farms profitable (glue). And if we pay Davis to record audio books for us, and instead find out he's blown it all on Weasel Whiskey, we can both go down there and bash his knee caps in.Again, when you "invest" in a modern day, publicly traded corporation, you are merely casting your financial fates to the wind.  Micro-investments you can wield considerable control over.Fifth, the risk of confiscation.  All the government has to do is flip a switch and your 401k, IRA, Roth or not, is now part of Obama's or Trudeau's "Wealth Equalization Happy Bunnies Act."  All those digital records of you having that hard-saved $540,000 in your RRSP is "poof!" gone, or (a la Cyprus) 50% of what it used to be.  And the reason why is because it's so easy since it's nothing but digital and electronic records.But a duplex you've gone halvsies in with your buddy is NOT a digital record the government can just "take."Those silver coins are not the "Silver ETF" the government just took 25% of, but physical silver coins that are in your physical possession.And that book deal Davis and I signed is not sitting on some broker's account where the SIPC can just come in and nationalize 75% of.  It's an accord between me and Davis.Admittedly, these investments are not as liquid as say the easily-confiscatable stocks, bonds and other publicly traded securities, but you never invested in them for their liquidation.  You invested in them for their RATES OF RETURN.  Which leads us to the final point,Sixth, you are actually INVESTING.Understand that buying stocks, bonds, mutual funds, etc, in your IRA or 401k is NOT investing.  The "investment" happened long ago when those companies issued the original shares or stock or bonds, took the proceeds and then invested that in property, plant, or equipment.  After that it is nothing more than secondary "investors" trading very expensive baseball cards in the forms of stocks, bonds, and mutual funds.  You buying your "Vanguard Index Fund" from somebody else on the NYSE does NOTHING to increase the amount of investment in the country.  You merely traded cash for stocks and they, stocks for cash.  In other words, the rate of return is going to remain the same.  The company will still be just as profitable and pay the exact same amount of dividends regardless of how many times you exchange your Pokemon cards stocks.  The only real difference is if you're paying an ever-increasing amount more for that same string of future dividend payments (which nearly 100% of everybody is).Contrast that with investing personally in either entrepreneurial ventures, micro-equity investments, peer-to-peer lending, etc., where that transaction ACTUALLY IS INVESTING, not only providing you a rate of return, but creating something of value, not to mention, likely hiring people in the process.Again, I admit that not everybody is going to have an entrepreneurial idea at their doorstep, waiting to be financed, that provides a 72% rate of return.  And I know it would take multiple of these micro-equity investments to compile an adequate portfolio that would support a retirement.  And I also am aware that managing all these investments will take time and labor, unlike the convenience of merely setting your monthly auto-pay to mindlessly invest in the S&P 500 Index fund in your 401k.  But here's a dirty little secret...That's what investing has always been.  Financing individuals who had great ideas or were reliable risks you would personally lend to.  Not this mindless zombie 401k clergy BS that the sheeple are sucking down whole, flooding the stock market with trillions in IRA monies because "retirement."So if you want to continue on, worrying about how you're "only getting 1.3% in your CD's" or "Oh nosies!  The Fed raised interest rates by .0000005% and the markets crashed!"Fine.But if you want to invest, may I suggest my good friend Davis Aurini?










POLITICS












 
An Exercise in Liberal American Economic Thought 
Hop in the Captain's F-22 fighter jet and let's go for a ride.  We're going to do an exercise in liberal economic thought.  Specifically, we are going to follow the typical American liberal's economic model or beliefs to their logical conclusion or end, and in doing so learn a lesson I think all people in the political spectrum can appreciate. Without taking too many liberties (and simplifying things down a lot) the average non-economist American liberal is more prone to believe in a watered down Keynesian version of economics that goes something like this -"Productivity doesn't matter, activity matters - any activity.  As long as there is some kind of economic activity, specifically transactions and things are 'movin' around' inevitably the economy will grow.  If there isn't enough sloshing around in the economic primordial goo or "Great Liberal Economic Oort Cloud," government can come in and with ANY kind of stimulus, shake things up a bit, and boom, we're magically back to economic growth."Again, I'm not saying I agree with this, but I think we can all agree this is more or less what the average, non-economist American liberal has in terms of an economic model or understanding of how the economy works (and intellectually honest liberals will admit this).  Besides, you don't have to take my word for it.  All you have to do is look at statements made by Barack Obama and Nancy Pelosi.  Obama claims he'll just "create" 600,000 more teaching jobs, 200,000 in clean energy, etc. etc., with no plans or details on how, just mix it up.  And evidencing to the "activity over productivity" aspect of this liberal model, Nancy Pelosi (and I believe Joe Biden) have said unemployment checks help stimulate the economy.  So even though this simplified, genuinely dumbed down version of an economic model sounds insulting, that really is how most liberals believe an economy operates.Now since productivity ultimately doesn't matter in the liberal's economic model, by logic (and tell me if I'm wrong here) this means it doesn't matter what we produce.  Under a free market, real world economic model, it is the demands and desires of the customer that drives production.  But under this liberal economic mindset we just need the absolute value of "ACTIVITY."  And since "any activity" is "good activity," said activity is NOT dictated by the demands and desires of the people.The question is, who or what determines then is going to be this magical Keynesian "activity?"Answer - the government.However, there's more to it than simply "government."  Specifically, we have to ask ourselves how will agents of the government come around to determining what activity to engage in?It's simple.  They'll choose something that's easy and fun.When given the choice of "what to produce" (because, again, according to this model it doesn't matter WHAT we produce, long as we're doing something) do you think liberals, government bureaucrats, and public sector union members are going champion making hard-to-produce items that require math, technology, engineer, studying, rigor, research and sweat?Hell no. They're going to choose something easy.Ergo, what do liberals ALWAYS ALWAYS ALWAYS ALWAYS ALWAYS champion as their "path" or "route" to economic growth?  There are five that come to mind.1.  Health care (not nursing, doctors or pharmaceuticals, but spending on health programs and the like)2.  Education3.  "Green Anything"4.  Activism/Non-Profit5.  Welfare"Industries" or "jobs" that require no skill and no effort, and are PURELY there, in an economically ass-backwards way, to serve the worker and not the customer.  And understand the logic here.  If it isn't going to be up to the customer as to what is produced, then the choice of what to produce defaults to the employee/producer (this goes along way in explaining why so many idiot children major in the liberal arts). I'd like to say this is the only reason these type of industries are championed by the government - that they're "fun" and "easy."  But sadly, logic also tells us there are other reasons liberals champion such "industries," namely politics.If you look at the list above, you'll realize championing such industries does two things beyond the supposed Keynesian benefits.  One, it benefits the politician who's advocating spending on these things because they're all "noble and good."  He/she can claim they're "investing in our future" when in reality they're merely mortgaging it and pissing it away.  Doesn't matter than these things are SPENDING with no positive rate of return (which  if there was a return would make it a GENUINE investment), Americans are too stupid to know the difference between an investment and spending.  The politician benefits from this ignorance.  Two, it inoculates the politician championing these causes from his/her rivals because they can hide behind the nobility of these causes.Are you against education?  You hate children.Are you against government spending on green programs?  You hate the environment.Are you against welfare?  You hate poor people, women, children and minorities.In the end you have what I believe to be the most brilliant, pinnacle achievement in all of political history - a political organism or entity, that produces nothing, gets it financing from other sectors of the economy, to employ its own political agents in (largely) make-work jobs, while at the same time commandeering and hiding behind various noble social aims (help the poor, help the children) to rationalize its parasitic nature, ALL WHILE GETTING THE BLESSING FROM ITS HOST IN THE FORM OF BEING ELECTED IN TIME AND TIME AGAIN.  It's brilliant because people willingly vote this in!Now I know, I know.  If you're like me your blood pressure is rising because you too are also gifted with Super Awesome Economic Genius (TM) and can plainly see none of this leads to economic growth.  But remember our original goal here.  This is an exercise in liberal economic thought to follow it to its logical end, not a political analysis.  So let's have ourselves a shot of Rumpie, set politics aside and return to economics.Now, since it doesn't matter what we produce, just as long as we're doing something and mixing it up in the economic goo, according to the average American liberal, our GDP would ideally look something like this:

(I threw in "Whole Foods" "Coffee Shops" and "Unicorns" to account for the sliver of private sector production liberals typically accept as "permissible private sector activity")Of course we know this isn't a viable or sustainable economy.  Nobody is producing the food.  Nobody is producing the power.  Nobody is producing the doctors.  Nobody is producing the Priuses.  A lot of things are missing for a sustainable economy.  So if this economic model isn't sustainable, how can anybody (liberal or conservative) support this?  Very simple young aspiring economists.International trade.You see, according to this liberal economic model, thank god we have the Chinese, Mexicans and Indians, because while we're

educating our children merely for the sake of educating them, 
spending trillions of health programs to keep people alive while expecting them to do nothing in return, 
going to the local OWS camp to protest reality, 
majoring in English though we speak it, 
and blowing $500 million on the the likes of Solyndra, 

those suckers..errr...I mean "charitable foreign folk" are slaving away making all the stuff we inevitably really do want to consume.  Things like, oh, I don't know, FOOD and ummm...APPLE PRODUCTS and um...CELL PHONES and umm...COMPUTERS and umm....CARS and um...well, frankly, anything that requires a skill liberal-art majoring Americans are too damn lazy to learn and do themselves.  Now, in the average, non-economist liberal's mind, problem solved!  We produce what we want to make while foreign suckers...errr...our "foreign friends" produce the stuff we actually want.  And as a bonus, our foreign friends will even loan us the money to pay for all this stuff.It is here, I believe I have fully flushed out and thought through the average American liberal's economic model to its logical end in their minds.  As far as they're concerned, this is a complete economic model.  They not only get to do what they want, they get to consume what they want, warm kumbayaa fuzzies for everyone.The problem is it doesn't stop there.Just because the average non-economist American liberal doesn't understand international trade, debt, not to mention the difference between a billion and a trillion, doesn't mean the realities of economics won't come crashing down on this model.  Carrying it further, we obviously see some problems.One, their entire economic system hinges on debt.  That foreign countries are going to not only perpetually make what we want while we offer them nothing in return (ie - we want electronics, how many Chinese want a book on "Women's Studies?"), they going to stop loaning us money because they're afraid we'll never pay them back.  If you were the chairman of the economic committee in China would you continue to loan money to a country that spends all of its money on people who don't produce, people who are going to die soon, and people who major in "Art History" instead of chemical engineering?  Set the nobility of welfare and social security and the chilllllldrnnnnnn aside.  China doesn't care.  They want their money back, and we, frankly, don't have the productive capacity to produce they valuable stuff to pay them back.Second, it also assumes the dollar never collapses.  Understand what gives a currency its value.  It's not because the government SAYS it has value.  It's because people (either here or abroad) can take our dollars and buy US made goods with them.  But if the US DOESN'T MAKE ANYTHING ANYBODY WANTS WHO IS GOING TO WANT TO BUY DOLLARS???  What are they going to buy??  An "English Degree?"  50 Shades of Gray?  Are those the US-made goods we're going to make to pay back our $16 trillion debt?  If I did my math right, that's 800 billion copies of 50 Shades of Gray.  So every person on the planet needs to buy, what, roughly 133 copies of "50 Shades of Grey?"  Are you kidding me?And finally, it is an enormous display of arrogance on our part.  I didn't realize this until I talked to a student at Macalester College in St. Paul.  I asked her what she was studying, she said, "international studies."  I asked her what she was going to do with that and she said, "Oh, well, I go work for the UN or government."  Don't you want to produce something or don't you need experience?  Why would they hire you?  "Oh, that school doesn't offer degrees in those things.  They teach us leadership and management."I realized what I was witnessing.  A veritable child thinking she has the wisdom and experience to lead - aka - tell other people what to do, just because she went to a really overpriced and crappy school.This led me to realize just what we are effectively "telling" the rest of the world when our kids major in "Literature" while the rest of the world's children major in math and the sciences."Take care of us."And it's worse than that.  In pursuing the policies that are implied by the average, non-economist, American liberal's economic model, we are essentially dictating roles to the rest of the world.China will be the manufacturers and workers of the world.  They'll produce our physical wares and electronics.Mexico will be the farmers.  They will grow our food.India will be our computer programmers and make those Chinese-made computers really fun.Brazil and Australia will provide the raw materials so all those other countries can make the stuff we want.And the US?  Oh, us?  we'll be the stay at home trophy wife.  We'll be the world's shopping mall.  Nothing is made here, just bought and consumed, and all those other countries will finance our spending habits.Oh, what's what?"What will we provide in return to all those countries slaving away making our stuff?Why, leadership of course!Through the UN, non-profits, Peace Corp, Ameri-Corps, consultancies, our educational institutions, and other various NGO's, we'll tell the rest of the world how they should behave and act.  You see, we're really good at it.  We have millions of 25 year old children who never worked a day in their lives, but that's OK.  They all have masters degrees in "International Studies" and "International Gay Lesbian Art Studies."  They're really smart and will tell you what to do!  You can thank us later!Heh, I'm sure the rest of you can complete this exercise and logically figure out where it ends.  
A Lesson in Economics for Immigrants 
This will be about the only political piece I ever write where I try to make a case or convince a group of people to vote a certain way.  And the way I'm going to do it is by being direct, blunt, honest and truthful, as well as using logic that cannot be disputed and math that is precise (though if anybody doesn't believe me, they can always look it up).  I also will be translating this into multiple languages so most immigrants in the US can read this (though I apologize in advance is the Google Translate loses some of the meaning in translation).First allow me some assumptions.If you are an immigrant to the US then chances are you came here for a better economic living.  You decided to come here, illegally or not, because it would benefit you economically.  Whether you decided to be a real American and work, or simply just go on welfare and live off of other people here, it doesn't matter.  Whether you even like the United States doesn't matter.  The fact still remains the United States presented a better economic life than the country you came from.  Also, if you are an immigrant, chances are you vote Democrat and will vote for Barack Obama.  Again, whether you're here legally or not, and whether you are allowed to vote or not, it doesn't matter.  Most of you will vote for Barack Obama.  The reasons are many.  He promises you that you will become a citizen. He promises you more money.  He promises you jobs.  Whatever he promises you, in general he will give you more stuff and money than Romney will (which I agree).But there is a problem the immigrant community faces and it's the same problem all Americans face.  A problem of feasibility.Barack Obama can promise you everything under the stars.  Romney can do the same.  The issue is whether or not they can deliver and make good on those promises.  And what determines whether or not they can make good on those promises is whether or not the economy is strong enough, healthy enough and growing enough to generate the economic production needed to pay for everything they promised.Understand the government can't just "print off more money."   Printing off more money does nothing but create inflation because it isn't the paper money that has any value, it is the goods and services that money can buy that has value.  Therefore the wealth and riches of a nation isn't how much pieces of paper money you have floating around, it's the amount of goods, services and stuff an economy produces that gives a nation its wealth, strength and standard of living.  We merely use money as a means to convert our labor into a tool we can use to go and buy the stuff we need.  That's all money is - it's a tool.  So when you print off all this money without a corresponding increase in economic production, you get inflation, or worse, "hyper-inflation" that you see in modern day Zimbabwe.Until recently, the United States was able to produce a lot of stuff that would give its money value.  However, in the past 20 years or so, especially the last 5, we have been spending more money than the amount of stuff we're producing.  Additionally, the government has been spending way more money than it has taken in, requiring it borrow money from the Chinese, Arabs and other countries.  Worse still nearly 70% of the money the government does spend goes into what is called "income transfers."  "Income transfers" means just that.  It is transferring money from one group of people to another in the form of EBT, welfare, food stamps, medicare, medicaid and other programs that disproportionately benefit immigrants.  The problem is that the government (meaning the US population) does not get anything in return for those income transfers.  Normally when you give somebody money they have to produce something or provide a service.  But 70% of our budget is spent without any corresponding increase in economic production, explaining in part why our economy is in such bad shape today.Now stick with me if I haven't lost you yet with the boring economics lesson because the consequences of this economic lesson will have an effect on you.As we spend more money relative to the amount of actual genuine economic production this will not only cause inflation, but (as noted before) require we borrow the money to make up the gap.  Again, the Chinese, Arabs and other countries have lent us trillions of dollars, but inevitably they would like to be paid back.  The only way we can pay them back is through economic production, not merely printing off more US dollars because that would lower the value of the dollar and our creditors would not accept that. So we need economic growth.The problem comes in the policies Obama and the democrats have been advocating.  They are usually for increasing taxes on people and corporations.  They are also for spending more money on income transfers (which again does not result in economic production, just merely taking one person's money and giving it to another).  None of these things create economic growth and the Chinese, Arabs and other countries know this.The point in time will come that our creditors would like to be paid back.  And if we don't pay them, they will "cut us off" and lend us no more money.  Meaning, the government will have to really cut spending because it ran out of money.  Meaning where does that leave you?It is here you have to be intellectually honest with yourself because whether you collect a government check or you actually support yourself, it doesn't matter.  The problems that you and I both face are a matter of sustainability.  The economic growth is simply not there to keep the promises Obama has made to you as well as the promises previous politicians have made to you.  And the deficit spending Obama is relying upon today is also unsustainable.We also must be intellectually honest in another regard.  If something is unsustainable, which this economy currently is, how can you advocate it?  How can you vote for something that simply will not work?If your goal is to simply take as much money from the American taxpayer as you can and leave when the government runs out of money, fine, at least you are honest in that regard.  But if you plan to live here or would like to live here, whether you are an illegal immigrant or not, then you must accept this fact and vote accordingly because you are literally delusional (in psychological terms) voting otherwise.Furthermore, chances are the countries you all came from suffered from this exact same problem.  You just didn't bother to familiarize yourself with the economics and politics that caused your country's economy to be so poor.  The problem is you are simply causing the same problem again because you didn't bother to learn the economic lessons from your home country.  This is why you absolutely must study the budgets of the government.  You must study the economics of your country.  Because if you don't, then you are uninformed and vote for policies and politicians that sound good, but are not sustainable.  So please let me inform you and trust me, I'm not making these figures up.First, our debt is currently at 100% to GDP (meaning we have enough federal debt so that it is equal to 100% the amount of economic production - "GDP" - we produce every year.  It is currently I believe 75% "net" federal debt to GDP, but that is another economics lesson for another time.  The point is that our debt level is high and it cannot go much higher.Second, it is going much higher.  Higher and faster than ever before under Barack Obama.  For every year in his presidency he has had a $1 trillion deficit, or a deficit amounting to about 8-9% GDP.  This annual amount is added to our debt.  We are not paying down the debt, it is increasing at a rate faster than any time in US history except during times of war (which are those spikes in the chart).  It is not sustainable.  It will end either by Republicans cutting the budget or the Chinese refusing to lend us any more money.Third, our economic growth is slowing.  We used to grow around 4.5% per year, now we're at about 2.25% per year. It is not enough to keep up with population growth.  This is in part because more and more people are living off of the government and not working.  If people had kept working and the government not spend so much money on income transfers the average person would not be making the $47,000 they do today, but rather closer to $100,000.Again, this economy is not sustainable.  It is not in your best long term interests to vote for Obama.Now, you can dismiss me, you can dismiss my logic and you can ignore my charts.  But it will be at your own peril.  Whether you believe me or not, you have stepped on the Titanic.  I don't care what the Democrats, the socialists or Barack Obama promises you, the economic boom days of the United States are over.  The only reason the government can spend money on income transfers today is because it's borrowing it and once that dries up, the money and economic opportunities you came here for will disappear.  You will face a situation similar to the one you saw back in your home country and there won't be a thing you can do about it.  My final argument though is the most compelling.Being an immigrant, chances are you have children.  The only reason the US population is growing is because immigrants are having more children than the natives.  What this means is you have "skin in the game" an English phrase that means you are personally invested in this country.  So if you don't want to study economics, you don't want to be educated and you are so naive you can't see a problem with a politician that promises "free everything" fine.  Your children will suffer your ignorance.  I'm lucky in this regard because I have no children.  Matter of fact I watch with a macabre fascination with the demise and collapse of the United States.  I'll be dead leaving no loved ones behind, I don't care.  However, you have much more at stake in the future of this country because you have children.  So the choice is really up to you and all other immigrants in the United States.  You can keep going down the road you have before.  You can keep voting in politicians that promise you everything and in doing so will simply repeat the economic collapses of the countries you came from.   You can remain ignorant about history and economics of not just the United States, but your home country.  And you can be lazy about studying the finances of a country you are in charge of (because this is a democracy).  Just be prepared to have yourself or your children pay for the consequences.I will, again, be watching the Titanic sink with everybody on it in macabre fascination.  
"If It Just Saves One Life" 
Permit me to go out on a limb here and point out something that is factual, but politically incorrect.Oh, I know, I know.  How dare I point out truth when people's feeeeeeeelinnnnnzzzzz are at stake, but I'm frankly too damn tired and too much of an adult to care.  So the rest of you can suck it up or go to hell.What is the value of a human life?Many years ago when I was stupid and young, I tolerated dating this evil woman because she was hot and gorgeous.  She also happened to be in insurance and told me one time that significant moral issues arose when it came to instances of paying out life insurance.Specifically, what precisely is the value of a human life?Well, actually, it depends.  And actuaries have gone to great lengths to develop formulae and algorithms to determine it.If you're a surgeon insurance companies pay out more in your death because obviously you are going to produce more and contribute more to society than an "aspiring rap artist."If you're an aspiring rap artist, then chances are you have a negative NPV because you're most likely engaged in thuggery, parasiting off of the taxpayer, the drug trade, and mayhaps, even murdering other people.  Besides, chances are the concept of investing in something like "life insurance" wouldn't even occur to you.But in general she said the value of a human life, economically, was roughly $1 million.This was back in the 90's and a recent search on teh interwebz shows it to be around $2 million.That's the facts Jack.Each person produces economically about $2 million.Now I do not wish to become so callous or macabre, but this should be mathematical proof than any time some whinny leftist says,"If it just saves one life, then it's worth it!"Uh, actually, no it's not, and I'll prove it to you in the most politically incorrect way possible.26 kids/people died unnecessarily and tragically at the Connecticut shooting.  You take 26 people and multiply it by $2 million, you get $52 million.  With Barack Hussein Obama's recent proposal to spend another $500 million, that means an economic loss of $448 million to the taxpayer.  And if we're supposed to believe the leftist tripe "if it just saves one life" then each person's life is worth $500 million.So let's do some simple math, shall we?310 million Americans times $500 million dollars equals...$150 QUINTILLION.That is precisely 10,000 times (if I counted the zeroes correctly) THE SIZE OF OUR GDP.In other words the math and economics just plain doesn't add up. You sadly cannot tender the argument, "if it just saves one life, then it's worth it" because if you did you would be ENSLAVING THE ENTIRE POPULATION OF THE COUNTRY TO TEN THOUSAND YEARS OF SERVITUDE.You wouldn't just merely be taking a person's life away, you would be taking their life away A MILLION TIMES OVER.I like to refer to this as "economic murder"...just 10,000 times over.Leftists and liberals have no problem forcing you to work 14 years of your life to support other people.  You don't care about it of course because we have a weekly payroll tax and you never stop to calculate how much of your finite life you spend working to pay the taxes to pay for other people to live.  But if you did take the time to turn off American Idol and calculate your servitude, you'd find that about a good third of your working life is spent slaving away for other people.  That right there is unacceptable, but when a mindless, pissant, worthless liberal tenders the argument,"If it would just save one life"then they are saying you not only need to pay more than 33% of your working life, but1.  Increase your life expectancy by 10,000 fold2.  Dedicate your entire production and work to other peopleor3.  Increase your production by 10,000 fold AND still forfeit all of it to taxesIn other words their entire argument is impossible bunk and is a sure fire sign you're dealing with (in the case of a politician) an intellectually dishonest person or (in the case of a math-impaired trophy wife soccer mom who just "thinks of the chillllldreeeennnn") an idiot.Sorry to be blunt, but what are you going to do about it?  It's mathematically true.  Us adults are sick of your naivety, we're sick of your idiocy and ignorance costing us and resulting in ineffective policies, and we're not tolerating childish arguments anymore.  File you're complaints with the Department of Reality.  
How Our Political Debates Prove Futility 
Step back from the fray, if you will, and try to view the political landscape through a different lens.It will take some doing, but once you do this you will see the point I'm trying to make and in doing so will allow yourself a bit of respite and a happier life.If you think about it, the primary or "main" political debates of our time could be summarized as such:Global warmingThe redistribution of wealthThe individual vs the communeFacts over feelingsRace/Diversity/Sex over character and accomplishmentFederal Reserve monetary policy of increasing the money supply I'm sure there are more, but I just have one question about the above-mentioned debates:Why in the Patron Saint's Name of Frick are we even debating these things?I'm serious, WHY are these even debates?  Why are they up for discussion?  Any intellectually honest individual, let alone a commonsensical 8 year old can resolve them and knows the adult, real world answer to them.  But there they are, every day at the forefront of political debate.The reason I point this  out is because if THESE are the major and unresolved political debates of our time, it only shows you just how far to insanity society has moved and just how doomed we really are.For example, take global warming.Has it been proven?  No, not by a long shot.  There's just as much counter evidence as there is evidence that it there is global warming, that it's caused by humans, and that it will have serious consequences.  To the slightly experinced and adult mind, you can see it for what it is  (a scam), but for people on the left, it is a veritable religion.  The irony, of course, is that the left will ridicule and mock people for believing in a religion, but (because global warming serves their political aims as well as provides them a convenient way to self-abscribe worth) they will never forfeit it.  This forces us adults on the right to come down to their level and debate something as amorphous, intangible and irrelevant as a religion.Another example, the redistribution of wealth.The finances and economics of the country are such that people really expect and feel entitled to a life paid for by other people.  The CHILDISHLY SIMPLE concept that everybody needs to be self-supporting and independent, otherwise society collapses, is lost on a majority of "adult" leftists.  The fact the merits of independence and not being dependent on others is even being debated, again, shows just how desperate, pathetic and sad the situation has become.And federal reserve monetary policy?  OH, THIS TIME IT'S DIFFERENT????  Right, because flooding the economy with currency JUST THIS ONE MORE TIME will work.Hell, Minnesota voted AGAINST requiring ID to vote, earning it the all-time greatest "WTF???"Ergo, I ask the question - why even debate?Along the lines of enjoying the decline, how precisely do you fight or argue such stupidity, childishness, naivete and brainwashing?  If I can't convince a woman that she is different than a man both physically, mentally, and sexually,and that  it is in her best interests to acknowledge and adhere to these factsAND I run the risk (shoot, guarantee) of being accused of sexismthen why even bother?  They are so childish, so intellectually dishonest, so hopeless and so brainwashed, you are merely wasting your breath, achieving nothing, and alienating political classes who will do you no good if you dare to do so.The larger point I'm trying to make is that if our debates have degraded to this level of stupidity and idiocy, it proves there is a critical mass of massively stupid and ignorant people and there is no point in trying to debate them.  Additionally, there is no point in getting worked up about the dismal outcomes of elections as it is Idiocracy electing its own demise.  It is just all the more reason to not waste what precious life you have arguing with leftists, worrying about the future, and proof you should be out enjoying the decline instead.  
How to Legally Exact Your Toll of Revenge on the Left 
The last chapter in my book "Enjoy the Decline" is titled "Revenge" and if there's a reason for you to buy the book, that chapter is it.  The reason why is that any Real American, any real independent individual who loves freedom and liberty is in a rather helpless position.  Since this (the United States and western civilization in general) is a democracy/republic we get a government forced on us by the majority, no matter how ignorant, no matter how stupid, and no matter how short-sighted.  And unless you're willing to resort to violence, tyranny, criminal, and other anti-democratic actions there is nothing you can do but sit and watch the left destroy the greatest thing that has ever happened to humankind.  However, that is what the "Revenge" chapter in my book is about.  How exactly does one person get their revenge on the people who destroyed their lives, their country and their futures and not land in jail?  There are ways (ways you will have to read the book to find out), but one of them, after further contemplation, I realized was arguably the KEY way to get your revenge and deserves a more thorough flushing out.Specifically, sex.Before I go further let me state after thinking this through I am being deadly serious.  This is not hyperbole, this is not rhetoric, this is not for shock value.  This is what my logic, thought and contemplation (free of the restrictions of politically correct thought) has concluded.  And if you follow me through you may not agree with what I'm saying, but you'll at least understand and see some reason in it.First, ask yourself what is the most important thing in life.  I've addressed this before and without a doubt it is other human beings.  I use the analogy of having the most advanced XBox 360, huge TV, etc. etc.  No matter how advanced, that video game is still finite.  It is still limited.  A human being, however, is not.  It is dynamic, it is sentient.  It is the most advanced, complex entity in the known universe and that is what makes another human more interesting and engaging than anything else.Second, who are the most important humans in your life?  Children of course if you have them.  But without a spouse you (in theory) can't have them or at least have a decent and well-grounded family.  Therefore it is your life partner, the love of your life that is the most important thing in anyone's life.Third, what is the greatest enjoyment you receive from your significant other?  Companionship, intellectual conversation, yes, these things are definitely very valuable, certainly mandatory requirements, but what sets apart the love of your life from just regular ole friends you have (who you also have compansionship and intellectual conversation with) is sex.Fourth, what makes sex enjoyable?  The answer is simple if you ignore political correctness.  Physical attraction.  You need to be physically attracted to your partner, just as your partner has to be physically attracted to you.  And the more physically attractive each person is the better the sex is.  And the better the sex is the better a VERY important, if not MOST important aspect of your biological life is.And it is here where you will exact your toll of revenge on the left.Understand the left, typically, though not always, are uglier than those of us on the right.  This is not up for debate.  All one has to do is play the game I do while driving:"How Ugly is the Person With the Liberal Bumper Sticker?"If you don't believe me try playing the game yourself.  Any time you see a car with a leftist bumper sticker catch up to it and peer inside to see how "attractive" the occupant is.You'll note two things:1.  They are usually pretty ugly, certainly homely.2.  They are never smiling.The reason why leftists tend to be uglier is the same reason they are leftists - a deep-seeded fear and hatred of effort and competition.  ie- they are lazy.To be physically attractive, just like a career or anything else worth doing in life, takes effort.  You need to work out, you need to run, you need to eat right, you need to dress right, and above all else, you need to have self-control and discipline.  You also have to be selfless to a certain extent, considering the preferences and tastes of others in order to prove appealing and attractive to them.  You may not like the maintenance required in having long hair, but you're not having long hair for you, you're having long hair for him.  You may not like lifting heavy blocks of metal repetitively as your brain atrophies, but you're not doing it for you, you're doing it for her.  In short you have to have a personal philosophy that is opposite of most leftists - hard work and altruism with your own resources. Since these traits of effort, rigor, discipline, hard work, genuine selflessness and responsibility are antithetical to leftism, practitioners of leftism suffer the consequences.  Lower incomes, poorer degrees, poorer employment prospects, lower standards of living, etc.  However, just like every other aspect of their lives, they also suffer in the looks department, and consequently suffer a lower physical quality and caliber in their lovers.  And since the value and importance of sex is so high, they also suffer in this very key aspect of their lives.Now while it may seem sophomoric and childish to say,"Nanny nanny boo boo!  Your sex life sucks!  Ours rules!  We have a better life!"and to suggest hotter people having better sex exacts a heavy toll of revenge on leftists, permit me some additional evidence that shows you, yes it really is that simple and YES, being hotter and having better sex REALLY IS a huge toll of revenge.  Namely, the great lengths leftists go to deny reality.If you look at the left, their entire effective (not conscious) philosophy is to do as little work as possible and live off of other people as much as possible.  As a consequence to this laziness, they have to CONSTANTLY come up with new and innovative ways to rationalize taking other people's money and other people's success.  I even argue that it is a leftist's primary job to rationalize the theft of others production for without them, they would die.  Therefore you have the formations of "ists" and "victim classes" and the "rich doesn't pay their fair share" etc. etc.  Whatever the rationalization, none are based in the real world for the simple fact they can't be.  There is no rational, intellectually-honest or real-world-based argument for parasitism simply because parasitism is not viable.   Ergo the left has to constantly rationalize away reality to legitimize their existence.However, while we normally focus on the left's herculean efforts to rationalize the confiscation of others' wealth, we do not pay as much attention to the equally-impressive intellectual acrobatics they perform to rationalize their non-real world reality in other aspects of their lives.  Specifically social, romantic and sexual.All one has to do is look at the great and (literally) insane lengths feminism goes to destroy basic, simple facts about the sexes. 

Men liking long legs, big boobs, long hair and tight asses (as they always have since the dawn of time and are genetically wired to) is misogynist, bigoted, and shallow.
Gender, despite obvious physical proof, is socially determined, not physically.
Women should NOT want to have children or stay at home.  They should be men...just as long as it doesn't require math or STEM classes....and it's SEXISM that explains the wage gap, not a lack of female engineering majors.
Women should not want to be beautiful for that is conforming to the patriarchy 

and could there be a better example of denying reality than....

the fat acceptance movement?

The question is if sex and beauty are not so important, then why do feminists (and leftists in general) go out of their way to belittle, berate, and destroy what society over the eons have determined to be beautiful?  What do they care if a man is attracted to a big boobed blond?  What do they care if a woman is skinny?  Why is nearly 90% of feminist/women's studies focused on sex and sexuality?  And furthermore, why are they so vehement, outright emotionally enraged if you disagree with them and dare to say you like big boobs?The answer is because they DO care about it.  They are merely coming up with rationalizations and reasonings because they are too weak to accept reality.  It's harder for them to psychologically accept and commit themselves to a life where they have to hit the treadmill (effort) and answer to others (selflessness) in society than one where they lie to themselves with malarkey like "fat acceptance" and other feminist claptrap excusing them to sit on their asses, work faux affirmative action jobs, commiserate with other equally physically revolting individuals, and never enjoy a great sex life.In short, try as the left might to deny economic reality, social reality and sexual reality, they are living in a delusional world.  And no matter how much rhetoric they spew, deep down inside they know they are living a lie (as evidenced by their emotional reaction to any criticism) and cannot deny their basic sexual nature and desires.It is here, however, where you can extract your revenge. While their fear of a life of toil, effort, rigor, work, competition, risk and achievement paralyzes them from enjoying life, you and every other conservative, libertarian, and Real American owe it to yourselves to ENJOY LIFE TO ITS MAXIMUM.  Go out, try, fail, try again, fail again, try again, succeed, excel, dominate, enjoy, progress, and evolve.  Become an interesting person with interesting hobbies and live a unique life they will never live because they're too busy conforming drinking organic coffee with their Apple laptop and skinny jeans.  But beyond that, the single largest bit of revenge you can extract from the left is by simply playing on their basic carnal darwinistic sexual desires.Stay in shape and have a hot wife/husband.Look sharp in public to the point you turn people's heads. Spank your girlfriend's tight little ass in public announcing to any leftists in view"I'm going to hit that later tonight and you aren't and never will."Rub it in their faces every day with achieving great things, the most piercing of which is having a physically attractive partner, the likes of which they never will enjoy.That is how you exact your toll of revenge on the left. 
Why Black Men Can't Compete 
Let's call him "Bill."It wasn't his name, but I don't care to identify him and give him more grief than what he's already in for.I met Bill watching over him while working a prisoner shift at a "place."Over the course of these shifts we get to know the prisoners if they're the talkative types quite well.  And Bill was talkative.He had himself a girlfriend.  Thought he was in love.  Until he came home one day and she was with another guy.  Bill went into a rage, thus leading to the opportunity for Bill and I to get acquainted.  Turns out this has happened before to Bill.  Not specifically that he came home and caught his girl cheating, but that women would date him for a while and then leave him for another man.What was interesting, however, was that though Bill was no saint, he was no grandiose sinner either.  He was also quite personable, seemed sane, and after talking to him for 8 hours I got the impression it was unfortunate events like this that landed him in the slammer.  Theoretically, I wondered, if the first girl  hadn't done this to him years back, would he have gone down this path and would we have ever become acquainted?  Regardless, I could not see why this guy would have girls leave him for other men so regularly.One other thing about Bill, he was black.Now before we let the brainwashing the socialist public schools, media and society have forced on us to immediately have a knee jerk reaction and start slinging accusations of racism around please shut up, engage your adult mind, and listen, for this is an important point I'm trying to make and has a lesson in it for all of us.So my little detective brain started to piece together a theory.  Bill was short, wasn't terribly successful in life, was a little younger than myself.  So I took a gamble:"How tall was the guy she left you for?"Bill said, "I don't know, 6'.""Have all the guys girls have left you for been taller?""Yeah, pretty much," he said.And so I said to myself "hmmmm...."WAs this proof positive of hypergamy running rampant in our society?  Proof positive that the women that dumped Bill for other men wanted to date taller fellows?No, but it was yet another bit of anecdotal evidence that would raise a brow and an anecdote that made me think some things through for our black brothers as Bill drifted off to sleep for the next 6 hours."Hypergamy" if you are unaware of, is the theory/fact (depending on who you ask) that women like to marry "up."  They want a guy who makes more money, who has a higher status, who drives a nicer car, etc. etc. Because it suggests women (in general) have less-than-pure or ulterior motives, it is thus taboo to suggest a thing in brainwashed and politically correct "polite" society, but since I don't care about feelings and only care about the truth, it is a phenomenon as blatantly obvious as the sun.Is hypergamy "wrong" or even "bad?"  No, it's a fact of life, it is the nature of women.  It is a naturally developed trait that has evolved for good reason over the eons, a reason we may not fully understand.However, when hypergamy is combined with societal, sociological or political changes, it can spell disaster.  And such is the case for our black brothers.Understand the single most important thing in life is other human beings.  They are the most advanced, dynamic and changing entities on the planet. Again, you can have the latest version of Grand Theft Auto with the most advanced X-Box system, it pales in comparison to another human being that is not a finite or programmed entity.  It is because humans are changing, dynamic and mentally infinite, you can love them.  Be it either your children (who will continue to amaze you with their antics, advancements, and mental wonderings) or your friends (who challenge your thought, stimulate your mind and provide you comradery) you can establish a personal relationship with them, a relationship you cannot establish with an inanimate object.  However, more important than all that is the relationship you will have with your spouse/loved one.  It is a different love and one that is not rivaled and is one of the key sources of happiness.  And thus why women are so important to men in life.However, if you wish to attract a quality woman, all the wonderful personality in the world will not matter.  You need to accept and incorporate the reality of hypergamy into your strategy otherwise you will fail.  This is a good thing for it forces men to strive and work hard.  It forces them to create, innovate, discipline and improve themselves so that they may have a wonderful woman in their life.  Matter of fact, you could make a very reasonable claim that nearly all advances and creations in society are at least partly due to hypergamy.  Regardless, the instinctual, biologically hard-wired rules are that men must strive, produce, and succeed in life to attract a quality woman.But what if extraneous sociological, psychological or even political factors are combined with the hypergamous nature of women and disturb this natural balance?  What if something were to happen to society where women's hypergamy was tinkered with?  There is no "what if."  It's happening in American black culture today.What we have today (in the black community) is "hyper-hypergamy."  Women are no longer satisfied with a hard working electrician or a mild-mannered accountant.  They are not satisfied with a stable guy, with regular income.  They are not satisfied with a regular Joe who works hard and does his best.  Media, society, and other sociological entities have created in their minds the idea that it's "a rap star or nothing."  That it's a "professional athlete" or nothing.  This puts the VAST majority of black men (and boys) in an impossible situation.They simply can't compete.How does Bill compete with Kanye West?How does the average black man compete with LeBron James?How does the local average high school black boy compete with his drug-dealing counterpart glorified in rap videos and media?It's simple.They can't.They don't have millions.  They don't have fame.  Just like every other race, the vast majority of them are just regular schmoes like us.  Not rock stars, not athletes, not movie stars.But there is another entity black men are competing against for the affect of their ladies that puts the likes of LeBron James to shame and makes Kanye West look like a putz.  Matter of fact, you could take all of the athletes, rock stars, rap stars, and romanticized thugs, purify their "higher status" and breed a genetically modified "super-athlete-rap-star-alpha Denzel Washington" type and it would still pale in comparison to this irresistible entity.  And truth be told, it was what instigated black women to go into "hyper-hypergamy" in the first place and (in my humble opinion) is the core of the cause for black's relative "last place" in societyThe federal government or "the state."Understand the state has decimated the black community by corrupting hypergamy in women in three ways.First, in in the state providing the basics in terms of food, clothing and shelter, women no longer need a man for these basic necessities.  Normally and historically, this was provided by the man, but with these necessities taken care of, women can now afford to demand even more from their men."What, you're just going to provide me a house, pay for my food, and pay for utilities?  Barack Obama and the state already does that!  What ELSE are you going to bring to the table?"This puts black men in a nearly impossible situation because black men have simply been replaced by the government.  Since the man's job WAS to provide a stable living, providing things like food, clothing, shelter, etc., with that gone these men must go into hyperdrive and outperform in other areas (fame, athleticism, brute display of strength, etc.).  Mathematically, only a certain amount of men can become professional athletes, rap stars, or what have you.  The rest, sadly, "die trying."Second, it is IMPOSSIBLE to compete against the government.  The government has TRILLIONS of dollars every year that politicians are only more than willing to spend on women and children.  How does the average black man with a respectable $17/hour job compete against Barack Obama promising trillions of dollars for black women and their children?  And worse still, while the Kobe Bryants and Kanye Wests of the world will attract the hottest and top females in the black community, the federal government sops up the remaining 99% of regular women that regular men would have normally attracted, leaving the vast majority of regular Joe black men destitute, lacking romantic meaning in life, and without families of their own.  And without that, what incentive does your average black man have to go and make something of himself?Third, this government entitlement/subsidy WORSENS the quality and caliber of women.  Whereas a husband or potential suitor in the past would hold their wives or potential spouses to certain standards, the state holds them to none.  Worse still, the worse-behaved and more screwed up you are, the MORE the state will provide for you.  This only reinforces low-quality behavior and in a cartel-like way, lowers the quality men get to choose from.Now, while I am focusing on black men, don't for a second think it only applies to them. Understand I only  highlight them because it is our black brothers who are furthest down this rabbit hole.If you look at illegitimate births (or any other sociological ailment) as a proxy for the level at which the government is replacing men, "sugar daddy government" is, frankly, stealing all races of all men's women at an increasing pace.  Whites, latinos, indians, you name it.  Ergo, this is not a "black" problem, it is a problem for all men (and truthfully) all women.  It's just the likes of Bill are the proverbial canary in the mine shaft.  
White Privilege Zombies 
I was at one of my cigar bars.  The sole female employee in the place was getting her doctorate in philosophy.  She was overweight, pushing fat, but not yet obese.  She also wasn't very pretty, but not hideous which is where I know most of your minds are predisposing to go right now.So there I was, smoking my cigar, cranking out my book, when she is talking to one of the black patrons complaining about "white privilege."  The man she was talking to was richer than most of us, friendly fellow, but very rich.  He certainly did not have any financial problems, but here was a spoiled little suburbanite brat who never had any intention of working for a living, complaining to a very wealthy man about how oppressed he was and how people like me had privilege.My natural instinct was to rip her apart, but I did not for it was not my conversation and it would rupture the quiet, calm tone of the lounge.I waited until she came into my area of the lounge and then told her in a calm voice that she was a worthless person, with a worthless degree and that white privilege was f%cking bullshit and mindless faux intellectuals like her were ruining society with their marxist BS.She then ran and narced on me to the proprietor.Naturally I was banned from the cigar lounge.  These middle aged men needed some kind of eye candy, even if it was of lesser quality.  And, of course, this strong, independent woman couldn't take the criticism and did the crying thing and went running to daddy.  So they caved and I had to find a new lounge, which was fine by me because I am not abandoning principle and will shame people when they spew insidious Marxism, cowardly disguising it with terms like "white privilege."However, a sad and scary thought has occurred to me.  White privilege is now so regularly taught in schools and to minds so inferior they actually swallow it, that when these people graduate and enter the real world, they will be beyond reason.  They will blame everything on "white privilege" and "racism" or "sexism." And since they have no mental capacity for intellectually honesty or reason, they will become liberal zombies, but of a racist and sexist sort(this post is an outstanding one and I strongly suggest you read it).It is here my theory of "liberal zombies" comes to a dark and dire conclusion. A person who cannot be reasoned with and will not adhere to intellectual honesty can only be dealt in two ways.  You avoid them and just plain don't interact with them or violence.  Ignoring them is one thing, but when they decide create public policy, make laws, or sometimes sue you, it will be hard to avoid them completely.  Also as more and more of these minds are brainwashed in the schools, they will soon become prevalent in society, completely unavoidable.  And violence is sadly what I see happening in some instances, since they are of the belief you are the enemy and the cause of their problems.  They will come after you and there is no talking them down.Again, I reference "I Am Legend."  There is no difference between the zombies in this movie and the mindless "white privilege automotons" being mass-produced in universities today.  They are mindless and they hate. 
How the Inanity of Our Political Arguments Prove We're Doomed 
Take the horse blinders off, take a step back and follow the ole Captain on this one, because I had to step back myself, wipe the crud from my eyes and see what was really going on.I was thinking about global warming.  Not from a scientific or political perspective, but a psychological one.  Namely,"How dumb are these people not to see it for the scam it is?"Really?  Global warming?  Based on computer models that keep failing, constantly get proven wrong, from avowed socialist scientists, and (surprise, surprise) the only solution seems to be higher taxes and more government spending? But it isn't even the arguments (scientific, political, economic, or logical) that gets me, as much as it is the pure inanity of the topic.  It's the fact I have to even debate this in the first place.  That there are millions of mindless, conforming humans that actually believe this stuff necessitating my expenditure of calories of energy to address the idiotic and very-religious-like premises of global warming.  In other words, the fact we're arguing about something so inane proves there is a larger underlying problem than global warming itself.Another political issue I can't believe we're arguing - feminism.  Not that women should be treated equal and have the same rights as men, etc., but more the current frontier that feminism is pushing.  That men and women are INTERCHANGEABLE, and if they're not, THEN THEY BETTER DAMN SHOULD BE!Ignore the differences in plumbing.Ignore the differences we enjoy.Ignore the different aptitudes and weaknesses of both and how they compliment each other and help society advance.No men and women MUST BE interchangeable to the point we're going to bring them up "genderless."  And if you don't agree with that, then you're a (fill in misogynist term here)_______________!Again, it's an inane argument.  No sane people should have to argue against it.  But its outlandishness is only outdone by the fact society is so mindless that this topic has even attained "debatability" in society. The only thing more outlandish is feminism's recent movement into "fact acceptance."And finally, the never ending arguing I've had to deal with since roughly the age of 18.  Where, in a room of thousands of 20 and 30 somethings over scores of parties, I seem to be the sole mind of reason making the "outrageous" claim that you can't have a society where nobody works.  That people need to work to support themselves.  That we all can't be elementary school teachers and that the equally inane Keynesianism where we "just move money around and economic growth will magially happen" is bunk.  20 years it's been where I painfully have to stoop down to my adversaries' childish level and explain, be it at a college party, a house party, or just in the company of others, the very simple and adult concept that there's no such thing as a free lunch.  That if there are too many parasites and not enough producers, society will collapse.And in return for my insistence on being the only mature adult in the room I get called every type of "ist" or every kind of condescending ideology (Nazi, Fascist, etc.).But then something dawned on me, prompted by my increasing misanthropy and cynicism triggered by humans -Do they really believe it?For example, does the average impoverished black man really believe his poverty is caused by "whitey" and NOT the illegitimacy rate, the crime, lack of fathers and out of wedlock births in his community?Does that social worker I'm arguing with REALLY believe we can just move money around, take it from those "evil rich" and all the country's socioloigical problems go away?Does that environmental activist REALLY believe in global warming and care about the planet?Or is it just one big-ass red-herring for the Right to chase, waste their efforts and energies debating, foolishly believing these people are dumb enough to believe it, when in reality it's just a front to obscure their ulterior motives of theft and parasitism?And after thinking about it, I've realized it's both.It is here, we need to break down the left into two general, but very applicable categories - categories I cannot claim to have come up with, but rather a reader - "Dupes" and "Devils."  Both of which populate the left, and both of which explain how these inane political arguments are both a ruse and a legitimate ideology members of the left believe.The "Dupes" are your mindless, zombies who believe anything they're told.  They are the foot soldiers of the left.  They never think on their own, they have no critical thinking skills (despite what their professors tell them), they don't care to think through the consequences of their actions or ideology and largely can be persuaded with bumper sticker sound bytes or chants that "sound good to them."Typically the Dupes are you high school or college students or celebrities.  Younger idiotic and wiseless children who, by society, the media, the education system, and the government, have been told they are oh-so-smart and "independent minded" as they all wear the same lame ass skinny jeans, thick rimmed glasses, and magically all have the EXACT same political ideology.  But don't think it's just youth or a lack of education.  You can have professors, fully indoctrinated into the system that their brain is no longer capable of independent thought.  A third generation union worker whose forefathers never let alternative ideas into the family.  Or even a politician, completely clueless about the mechanics of economics, governance and statesmanship, and just in politics because their grandaddy was.  Regardless of the age, economic or other sociological backgrounds, these people have NEVER thought their ideology through and mindlessly follow it like a radical Muslim or a born again Christian.  They not only have no intention of "finding the truth," they are fully incapable of it.  And thusly, because of the lack of a truly free mind, they make the perfect "dupe" for any politician willing to abuse them.Those politicians willing to abuse them are the "Devils."  People who fully well know what they're advocating is not feasible, unsustainable, and sometimes just outright wrong and evil, but don't care, because it is for their own personal gain.The liberal arts professors sucking the tuition-blood out of your child, crippling their financial futures until they're 60, as they charge $400 a credit for their worthless humanities class.Jesse Jackson race-whoring, blaming all of one group's problems on other groups, permitting no critical thinking, self-inflection, let alone desire to actually help the group he hypocritical claims to be helping.The limosuine liberal, who wants to avoid a real job at all costs and instead enters politics, advocating the unbeatable policy of taxing a rich minority to buy the votes and love of the middle class and poor majorities.  Never once would they ever part with their own money to help the poor, it is only through taking other's money do they advocate such a thing.  Whichever of the many variants of Devils, when you're arguing with them, they know full well they are lying, they are living a lie, they are ruining millions of people's lives, and they don't care. They are the epitome of evil.Now, regardless of whether you are facing a "Devil" or a "Dupe," libertarians, conservatives and other right sided folk face a problem when attempting to engage them in a debate - neither Devils nor Dupes are capable of being convinced.First, the Dupes are incapable of being convinced because they, frankly, lack the intellectual capacity for intellectual honesty.  The lies they've been told are too kind to their egos and thinking of anything else would hurt their fragile little feelings.  They will live a lie and suffer the consequences because it's more important their ego be saved than their lives be enjoyed.And second, the Devils are also incapable of being convinced, not because they need convincing, but because they already agree with you. They agree with everything you say.  Now get them to admit that and give up their racket.  They won't because the money is just too good.  And so good luck ever convincing a Devil.So what's a righter-leaning person supposed to do?Simple - deny their premise right off the bat.You see, I don't know about you, but I got sick and tired of the 2 hour arguments at college parties where it would go around and around in circles where inevitably they would just say we'd have to agree to disagree.  Or where through some spectacularly concocted mental self-rationalizing bullshit, a leftist would say something inane like "well my perception is reality." Or "I don't believe your figures." (both true).My life is too short for that.Instead, a much better approach to debating a Dupe (or a Devil) is to immediately call them out on their bullshit.To a Dupe you say, "you know what, I'm sorry, but I'm not going to debate you.  You aren't going to be convinced or persuaded because it's simple - you refuse to.  You prefer to believe in your ideology like an unfounded religion and no amount of data or empirical proof I have will convince you.  You want to believe a lie which is psychotic and there's nothing I can do to counteract a mental problem."To a Devil you say, "You're a liar, and you know it.  You don't believe the BS you're spewing for one god damned second.  And you ain't fooling me."This will not solve any debates.  This will not convince any one to agree with you.  But you have to realize one key important thing;You were never going to solve the debate or convince any one in the first place.  It was doomed from the beginning.But what you DO achieve in calling BS on the premise or calling them out on their intellectual dishonesty is is two things.In terms of Dupes you DIRECTLY address their real problem - psychological delusion.  You say, "No, the real issue is not global warming or whether there are such things as genders, etc., it's that you have such an impaired mind that you actually think this is even debatable.  That you have such a psychological problem that I have to stand here and engage you with kid's gloves on actually thinking you believe it's big bad rich people who are holding the world down when in reality you just want an excuse to steal other people's money."  This moves the national political debate from arguments that are never going to be solved to arguments as to the sanity of the Dupes.In terms of the Devils you  DIRECTLY address their real problem - they're sociopaths.  If there's one thing I love about calling the Devils out on their BS is that you actually do not look like a Dupe yourself.  I don't know how many years I've listened to talk radio hosts, WHO SHOULD KNOW BETTER, swallow whole the lies and the premise the Devil's put before them and then argue from such an impossible handicap.  The Devil's are LAUGHING their asses off at you.  There you go trying to explain, in THEIR TERMS, restricted to their premises, why global warming isn't real, why race relations are better than they claim, how the wage gap is BS, when your only argument should be "you're a liar and a charlatan and you can go to hell.  You're abusing the people you portend to be helping and you should be ashamed of yourself."Of course most talk show hosts, pundits, and conservative media types never grow the balls to accuse leftist Devils of "crusaderism" or evil, which plays wonderfully into their hands as they make idiots of themselves vainly trying to convince them.  But perhaps someday, they might actually want to take the kiddie gloves off, dispense with the "my fine colleague from across the aisle" bullshit and start throwing down.  
Why You Can't Criticize Karl Marx 
First, if you have the time, i strongly recommend listening to this podcast by Stefan Molyneux on Karl Marx.  If you don't, then allow me to give you the Thug Notes version:From what superficial studying of Karl Marx as an individual I did, I knew the guy was not right.  He came from a relatively wealthy family, always had financial problems, ended up marrying into wealth, but still managed to squander it.  He never had a real job and instead focused his efforts on his political-economic theorizing.  This lack of focus and adult responsibility is clearly evidence in Das Kapital.  Not because of it advocating childish theories, but the writing is HORRIBLE and PAINFUL to read. It was blathering, not a logical, succinct, cogent argument for socialism.Beyond that I never gave Marx, the person, another thought.  However, until I listened to the podcast above, I had no idea just how literally and genuinely insane the man was.Marx was indeed an older version of today's hipsters.  He lived off of other people's money, and when those sources dried up, he would go and try to find others.  He viewed real work beneath him and had a crusaderist view of himself which is why he was always "researching" in the library to advance his own economic religion.  This alone is enough to make me see red, but mercy almighty, it gets much worse.Marx also didn't like to bathe.  That rats nest of a beard is not by accident.  It's because of a lack of hygiene.  Because of his preference to avoid basic grooming (probably too much work) he ended up having boils over his body regularly.  This is not the sign of a sane person, but somebody who obviously had mental problems.Further evidence of mental problems are abound if you look into his family life.  Such a poor provider was he that 4 out of his 7 children died before the age of 18.  2 of the survivors went onto commit suicide.  Marx also sired an illegitimate son with his maid, a woman he never paid, but lived with the family.Finally, Marx was a hypocrite.  To avoid creditors he would use aliases, skipping out on rent and often times not paying butchers, tailors, and other "workers" he so claimed were "exploited" by those evil capitalists.  Further more, he was an intellectual hypocrite.  Instead of using facts and data to create theories, he did it the other way around.  His entire "research" was spent trying to find proof and evidence that his childish and naive ideology would work.There is certainly more, but the larger point is a simple one:Karl Marx was batshit insane.  He was psychotic.  And to believe or subscribe to any ideas the man had (be it political, economic, familial or anything) is foolish.History has proven this.  Only a madman's illusions de grandeur could result in killing more people during peace time than Nazi's did purposely during war.  You can compare similar people's implementing Marxism vs. freedom (the Koreas, East vs. West Germany, Cuba vs. Caymans, etc.).  And you can look to see what happens when countries abandon socialism in pursuit of capitalism (China, Vietnam, the Baltics).  But the real issue isn't what a "moron" or "psychopath" Marx was.  It isn't even the devastation and poverty his cancerous and flawed "theories" has wreaked upon the world. It's the scary fact as to just how receptive humans are to such a stupid, and ultimately, dangerous and evil ideology.This is why you can't criticize Marx.  There have always been idiots.  There have always been megalomaniacs.  There have always been psychopaths.  It the fact humans are actually stupid enough to listen to these morons that is the problem.For example, it is a fact, A FACT you can't just "print off more money."  They tried it in ancient Rome, they tried it in the Weimar Republic, they tried it in Yugoslavia, and they continue to try it in Venezuela, Argentina, and yes, these United States.  You would think with a basic and cursory knowledge of world economic history we would know that printing off money will not solve any economic problems and will only bring about a collapse in the economy.  But we still do it.  And the reason isn't a lack of knowledge, but psychological.  Human's want to believe they can have their cake and eat it too.Another example, obesity.  We all know what causes people to be fat - too many calories, not enough exercise.  The solution is simple - work out more and eat less.  But despite having the KNOWLEDGE the human mind performs acrobatics to ignore this reality and rationalize away pigging out, and obesity rates continue to increase.  (Some humans are so delusional and weak-minded, they've even gone so far as to advocate "fat acceptance).  And a third example, minority poverty.  It is a fact illegitimate children are the number one cause of poverty.  Throw in a lack of education in STEM fields as well as a propaganda-destroyed work ethic, and it is very clear why minorities suffer lower standards of living.  The solution is simple - don't have illegitimate children, studying in fields that are in demand, and work hard.  However, despite KNOWING this is the path to success, the majority of minorities would rather swallow the spoon-fed lie that it is "discrimination" that is keeping them down and wallow in a Detroitian self-pity. We could go on as the examples are endless, but the point is that it isn't "bad ideas" that threaten society, but a weakness in human psychology that excuses people for believing in them. The belief that you can have something for nothing.  The inability of the human mind to understand delayed gratification.  The willful ignorance of not asking "where does the money come from?"  It's almost as if there's a piece of the brain that, despite thousands of years of wisdom, evidence and fact, stubbornly insists on forcing its host to make bad decisions in the long run.  Because of this merely criticizing Marx, socialism, and socialists won't work.  The people that need convincing do not believe in socialism or Marxism on a logical level, but an emotional, psychological, even greedy one.  Throw all the charts up in the world, cite all the case studies of North vs. South Korea, point to China's historic improvement, it won't work (trust me, I've tried) simply because socialism's adherents WANT to believe in socialism just like a fat woman wants to believe "one more cookie won't hurt" or an alcoholic's belief that "one more drink is fine" or a 38 year old spinster's belief that "38 is the new 24."Therefore, I suggest a new approach when battling socialism.  Instead of fighting it on a logical and mathematical level, we fight it on a psychological one.  Understand Rush Limbaugh, Sean Hannity, and Dennis Prager have been doing the same damn thing, day in, day out, and the country has still dramatically shifted to the left despite their admirable work.  Their factual tactics have failed.  But if we were to do something on a psychological level, especially something they won't dare do, then we might actually see success where they have failed.I suggest being mean.Specifically, shame, mockery, and ridicule.For example the shame, mockery and ridicule that is rampant in the Manosphere has done more to not only free men from their psychological brainwashing, it strikes right at the core of female psychology - shame.  40 years of touchy feely nice guy bullshit has only allow feminism to run rampant over Baby Boomer and Gen X men.  It wasn't until about 8 years ago or so did some men say, "fuck this, we're done," and dared to start mocking women for being naive in their political beliefs, shame them for being fat, ridicule them for majoring in stupid subjects, and start holding them to task about wanting to be genuine equals.  The jury is still out on whether this tactic has worked, but based on the cumulative "chatter" of social media sites younger women are at least taking note and not swallowing whole their 60's grandmother's feminist bullshit.Another example the black community.  I am obviously indifferently harsh on the black community (and other minority communities).  Do I do this because I hate minorities?  Do I do this because I am a racist?No, I do this because I refuse to lie to my fellow man.  I could no longer tolerate delicately dancing around eggshells and gingerly trying to maybe convey the concept that hopefully someday maybe, kind of, our minority brothers and sisters will kind of sort of maybe see the logic I'm trying to convey.Fuck it. Don't have time. Don't have the patience.Black community, stop fucking up and get your shit together.And shocks of shocks, guess what!  I have a disproportionately higher black readership (especially young black males) who appreciate me giving them the straight dope instead of lying to them to spare their feelings.  Again, despite having a fraction of the audience, I've converted more blacks to libertarianism/conservativism in the last year than Dennis Prager has in 20.Again, we could go on, but the point is simply this: You can't criticize ideas.But you sure as hell can criticize the idiots who believe in them.And it is that psychological line where the battle for freedom, liberty, and capitalism should be fought.  
Words That Prove You Have a Worthless (and Likely Leftist) Job 
Of the many things I loathe about socialists and leftists is how they create words to make themselves sound smarter than they actually are.  Academia is a perfect example of this, and women's studies are the epitome.  Just read through any course description and you'll see mutli-syllabic words that were completely fabricated for the sole purpose of masking the fact the entire "profession" is a farce and its participants idiots.  However, things like "praxis" and "rubric" are usually relegated to the world of academia and are obvious as they are political.  But, sadly, socialists and leftists cannot all be employed in academia.  They need to find other sources of employment, and natural as it is to leftists, they will try to find work that is:1.  not real work2.  but still feeds their egoThis search for faux-work-but-our-egos-need-to-be-stroked type work has resulted in a bevy of new and hypocritical terms that are dead give-aways to two things.1.  Your job is not a real job2.  You are likely a worthless leftist living off of the taxpayer or charity for your meaningless jobThankfully, over the past two years I've been jotting these terms down as I've come across them to create a sort of compendium which will allow us to truly understand what these words mean and to identify and expose those worthless people who work in these worthless "careers" for the parasites they are:Initiatives - this is usually used in the public sector, mostly schools.  It means to "initiate the creation of another program that is going to cost the taxpayer more money."  The goal of an "initiative" is that it hopefully goes from a program into a full fledged department.  For example Michelle Obama would love it if her "initiatives" on obesity evolved into the US Department of Obesity.Outreach - Usually associated with a program, "outreach" is just a euphemism for "paying unemployable college graduates to go and force something on society that nobody wants."  It belies the true suckiness of the program when you have to "outreach" to clients to get them.  For example Obamacare has a lot of "outreach" because nobody wants it.Diversity - Diversity is nothing more than the socialists' attempt to replace character with race/sex/ethnicity/etc.  In doing so, socialists can argue for the stealing of other people's money based on race/sex/ethnicity, etc.  "Diversity" is also rapidly being pushed by HR departments to replace "profit" in corporations, once again eliminating any need for hard work, character, excellence or achievement.Raising Awareness - If "raising awareness" is in your job description there is a 100% chance you are a worthless person with a worthless job.  Like "outreach" "raising awareness" again aims to create a problem where there is none.  If it was a real problem people would know about it.  Ergo, since socialists thrive on concocting problems and the ensuing government money that is sure to follow to "solve the problem," "raising awareness" is nothing more than future job security.Community - This refers to the crime ridden crapholes 50 years of democrat policies have turned most of our major metro inner cities into.  There really isn't a "community" as much as there is a group of people who hate each other, but make for a convenient group to champion the expenditure of additional government money on.  Ergo, it's for "the community" is really "I'm going to use this community to get my non-profit government grant money so I can pay myself $89,000 a year as the director with no intention of actually helping out the community."  It's exactly like a drug dealer's market, but more unicorny and flowery sounding.Invest - This term has nothing to do with actual "investing" as that would imply some sort of positive rate of return.  No, this is a euphemism for "pissing away," "wasting" or "pouring down the toilet bowl" taxpayers money.  Usually "invest" precedes some noble cause as a cowardly tactic to change the focus from the pissing away of money to the noble cause.  eg:"Investing for our future""Investing for our children""Investing in our education"For those of you with real jobs and who work for a living, simply replace "invest" with "pissing away" and you will be able to translate.Change Lives - Change lives means "me telling you what you're going to do with your life because I think I know better because the government told me so."  Usually people who want to "change lives" go into education or child psychology because they think it is their domain or jurisdiction as a 19 year old girl to tell 5 year olds how to think and behave.  You can also see "change lives" in what is nothing more than a travel agency masquerading as The Peace Corps with spoiled suburbanite kids using "changing lives" and "helping the people" as an excuse to travel.  You will also note not one person employed in this field has managed to change one person's life for the better.Provide Leadership - Kind of like "raising awareness" nobody was asking to be led let alone asked for a leader.  But don't let that stop you from "leading the community."  Remember, these jobs aren't for the people or the purported intended recipients.  These jobs are purely for you and your ego.  And nothing boosts the ego by being a self-proclaimed leader.Leader of what?Who cares?!  You're "leading."  And if that means being in charge of 5 people carrying clipboards around, then by gum, you have just as much leadership skills and experience as a first lieutenant from Iraq with 3 tours under his belt.Advocate -  Whatever it is you're advocating it's likely taking my money and then giving it to somebody who cannot speak for or defend for themselves.  Thankfully, you're all too eager and willing to take my money or non-profit money to be an "advocate" for some group or another, but understand and understand this well - we all know you don't give a damn about said group.  You're primary concern is that you get paid for easy work.  ie- you use these genuinely disadvantaged people for your own financial gain.  You're despicable. 
When OWS Became the Banksters 
Two groups of people I wish we could arm heavily and have them duke it out like the Nazi's and the Communists would be the OWS protestors and the banker scum.  Give them whatever they want, arm them to the teeth, throw in some good chemical weaponry for good measure, and let them go at in in the New Mexican desert.  It would be like two forms of cancers fighting each other in a human body.  But whereas I passionately loathe each group for different reasons, the OWS camp is about to add "hypocrisy" to their own list.Welcome the "I majored in debt" meme.If you don't know what this latest meme is, it's akin to the "I need feminism" meme where idiotic college students put together videos whining about their student loan plight.  They have $40,000 in debt, $50,000 in debt, $75,000 in debt, and (surprise, surprise) they asking you me and all the other responsible, productive taxpayers to bail them out with HR 4170 (the Student Loan Forgiveness Act).There's just one major problem.Aren't these college students asking for the US taxpayer to bail them out of their stupidity just like the bankers did with TARP?If you look at the two groups (OWS/lefty students and banker scum) they're the exact same.1.  They did absolutely no research to assess the value of their investments2.  They borrowed huge amounts of OTHER PEOPLE'S MONEY to make said investments3.  And when said investments didn't pay off they went crying and whining to the taxpayer to bail them outThe only difference is that OWS/lefty students never made any attempt to be profitable in the first place.  If you watch the videos you'll notice damn well near 100% of them all majored in some worthless touchy feely liberal arts BS.  They treated it like a  hobby and are "shocked, SHOCKED" they can't find a job with a Masters in Hatewhitemale Studies.  Worse still, they have absolutely no shame about it.  They don't blame themselves for their lazy decision to choose an easy major, they don't blame their parents or teachers/counselors for the crappy guidance they received, and in true brainwashed and programmed-dolt fashion fail to see the irony when they come running us for a bail out.What the "I Majored in Debt" meme ultimately shows is how the Millennial generation has followed their Gen X and Baby Boomer predecessors in failing to grow up and become responsible adults.  However, they've taken it to a whole new level. They've perfected the art.  They're not even cognizant of the incredible mistakes they're making, how those mistakes cripple their futures, and STILL have the attitude of entitlement and "somebody has to do something about this!"Sadly for them the socialist experiment has run out of money.  Not only are there no jobs (because they voted for an anti-business, anti-capitalism government), but what money is being spent is not being spent on them.  Instead, they are the victims of their own socialist machinery.  The government, education industry, and politicians LOVE liberal-arts majoring children because these child-sheeple are the only ones idiotic enough to take out hundreds of billions of dollars in student loans and give it to their leftist-socialist professor indoctrinators.  It may disgust you that adult-children are asking for your money, but it is the perfect example of where "Worthless" meets "Enjoy the Decline."  So pour yourself a drink and sip away as you enjoy the schadenfreude warms fuzzies as reality hits these useful idiots upside their heads.  
Why Dennis Prager is Dangerous to Young Conservatives 
Dennis Prager often trades with Joe Soucheray as my 2nd favorite talk show host.  He is incredibly intelligent, goes way further into the rabbit hole than the superficial skimming Sean Hannity does, and crafts his shows meticulously.He is also incredibly dangerous.  The reason I say Dennis is incredibly dangerous is because he (albeit unintentionally) conveys hope to people where there is none. Specifically when he references his book "Still the Best Hope - Why the World Needs American Values to Triumph" during his show where he is typically suggesting people still have hope for America, invest in America, and believe in America.  And while this is nice and what many of us would like to believe, it unfortunately just isn't true.America and to a larger extent, Western Civilization, has seen it's zenith and is now barreling its way down to 2nd and 3rd world status.  With government debt approaching 110% GDP, economic growth half of what it used to be, and with unfunded commitments and liabilities running at 10x's our annual economic production, it is economically and mathematically impossible for this debt-ridden sloth of a country to ever achieve, let alone deliver on whatever hopes Mr. Prager claims it has the potential for.But the real reason there is no hope in America is not so much its already-handicapped economy; it's what has always determined whether a country is great or pathetic - it's people.In nearly every aspect of the country you see a decay in the quality and caliber of the people that make up the US.A younger generation so steeped in leftist indoctrination they voted in a guy who has done nothing more than mortgage their futures.  These same kids also naively believe majoring in philosophy or Hate-White-Male-Studies is going to land them a job.  And they're so unforgivably ignorant in terms of economics NONE of them are capable of supporting themselves financially, let alone know the basics of public finance (oh, and BTW, this is the generation Prager is pinning his hopes on to "save" the country).The youth are not the only culprits.  Gen X, now thoroughly in what could be considered "parenting age" are failing miserably at that.  With divorce rates no different than their parents' generation, we are ensuring the young are dropped off in daycare, raised by the state, alienated from their parents, and are even going to be more inept and incompetent than the adult children that populate our colleges today.  But at least Gen X women are empowered.Of course, who can forget the parasite generation known as the baby boomers? Not only are they parasitical in terms of the resources they will consume via social security and medicare, but the also in their absolute abysmal failure to lead the country.  Be it the housing bubble, the government debt crisis, the education bubble, you name it, every major financial and economic problem we have today was done under the reign and leadership of baby boomers.And hey, let's not forget the newcomers to this country.  Why we'll let anybody in.  Don't want to learn the language?  Sure, come on in!  Don't want to work for a living?  Sure!  Come on in!  Want to leave your crappy country, but continue practicing your crappy traditions that made your country crappy in the first place, foolishly thinking just because you're located on a different part of the globe everything will be better?  Come on in!  And make sure to out-breed the productive members of society because you still haven't learned the concept of income per capita.Naturally, the result has been predictable.  As the quality of humans drops, so does the culture.Miley Ray Syphilis is on the stage and not Doris Day."Black Box" and "Sex and the City" is on TV and not Hogan's Heroes."Figgityfoe and His Two Bitch Ho" album outsells Duke Ellington.And any inferior culture is deemed superior to American Culture simply because it is not American.Success is failure.Beauty is ugly.Excellence is criminal.Now, are you going to tell me, with all of the decay, all of the corruption, all of the idiots, and all of the just plain evil, you're going to invest in this kind of country?While Dennis' intention is absolutely noble, honorable, and well-intentioned, unfortunately anybody who follows his advice and decides to tie their anchor to America is going to ruin their one and finite lives.  And thus nearly every channel of investing in America is pointless.Want an education in the US?  You're nuts.  50% of your tuition money goes to unnecessary pre-req classes to keep worthless professors employed.  And what classes remain will still have a leftist slant berating you for daring to be white, male, or aspiring to succeed.  That's when they're not too busy shoving bogus sexual assault statistics down your throat and accusing you of whatever variant of privilege you're unaware you have.  And the final parting gift is a crippling level of debt sure to ruin the rest of your life.Want a career in the US?  You're foolish.  There are no jobs here, and there CERTAINLY is not the economic growth needed to provide something as unicorny and mythical as a "career."  And heaven help you if you dared to exercise your freedom of speech in the past, as your employer (now thoroughly corrupted into totalitarian leftist thought) will fire you with impunity.Want a family in the US?  You are insane, especially if you're a man.  The women are spoiled, entitled, obese and divorce-prone.  The schools are there to separate you from your children.  And if you have the intellectual temerity and honor that most Pragerites have, you will likely raise your child with a decent work ethic, which will only serve to make them hosts for the parasites of lesser parents they will suffer and serve under.Want a house in the US?  Too bad, you can't own a house. OH sure, they'll say it's yours and give you a deed.  But in the end all you've managed to do was buy a perpetuity liability where you promise to pay (ever increasing) property taxes to the state.And all of this under an ever-increasing public debt, declining economic growth, and increasing hostility towards conservatives, libertarians, and otherwise noble and successful people.No, for anybody with an ounce of temerity or a desire to enjoy a happy and successful life, you'd be wise to ignore Prager's advice and look for greener pastures.  Not that he's a bad man, he's just a man from a bygone era hopelessly in love with an idea that is no longer tenable for younger generations.Enjoy the decline.  









The Unrelenting Ego of Leftists 
Permit me to cite four stories/examples.First, R22.If you didn't know what R22 is, it's a refrigerant that is used in airconditioning units.  It's been banned by the EPA and the EU because it "harms the ozone layer."  Its replacement is much more costly and has resulted in some entities (smaller sports arenas namely) having to shut down or go without airconditioning.Second, azodicarbonamide.You may remember this more as the "yoga mat chemical" that was used to make Subway bread chewier.  It wasn't until a "food blogger" Vani Hari went on her little crusade and "exposed" Subway for using this chemical did most of anybody care.Third, earplugs.Not that there's anything interesting or newsworthy of earplugs unto themselves, but when a city councilman like Jacob Frey wants to force music establishments in Minneapolis to provide their patrons with earplugs and considers such an idea "good government" you can see why such an idiotic idea and man might make the news.Finally, the cancer-ridden woman in Rapid City.Some of you may know the story, but the short version was this 60 something woman who obviously had gone through chemo (she had no hair) was talking with her friends about how they stopped the Keystone pipeline at a cigar lounge I like to attend.  They were patting themselves on the back and then said, "ONTO STOP THE BAKKEN!"  When I got up to leave she thought I was her friend and asked for a hug "goodbye."  I then ripped into her about how she was scum, the reason the country and my generation had no hope, and that her little crusade was just to feed her ego and she didn't give a damn about the environment.  I may have said something about her not living long enough to see the Bakken shut down.  So what do all four of these anecdotes/stories have in common?They all highlight what is arguably the most dangerous aspect of leftists and socialists:They won't stop.Understand that there is a theoretical "optimal" amount of legislation.  Too little legislation and there's bound to be a lot of crime.  Too much legislation and you cripple and choke off your private sector.  But leftists don't care about this because to them MORE legislation is ALWAYS better.  It makes up for the fact they really don't have good ideas of governance, they have no game plan, and they make for miserable statesmen.  I termed this "disease" or phenomenon "Chronic Regulation Addiction" or CRA.The problem for leftists and politicians in general suffering from CRA is that they fail to realize that there's nothing wrong with doing NOTHING.  That maybe over the past 250 years an adequate amount of laws and regulations were already passed and this body of legislation needs only mere and occasional tweaking.  No they "must do something" and so they're always on the hunt, always on a crusade to right and imaginary or made-up wrong. The problem this presents for society, however, is that as the laws become progressively petty they also become progressively invasive.  Admitted Nazi, Hater of Humanity, and All-Around Douchebag Extra-Ordinaire, Michael Bloomberg is the perfect example of this.  So complete was the legal system of NYC he had nothing better to do than to tell people how much soda they were going to drink.  And Jacob Frey, though not in the same league as Bloomberg, is doing his best to make people's hearing health the responsibility of the city government.  You take these two and multiply them by the tens of thousands of bureaucrats, politicians, and other participants that populate and lead our legal and regulatory agencies and you can see the threat to personal freedoms CRA infected leftists presents.Perhaps, however, if we find out what drives leftists and socialists to constantly push for more as opposed to less regulation we can stop the perpetual encroachment upon our personal freedoms? And while that may sound great, unfortunately it's impossible, for what is truly driving leftists and socialist is ultimately their lack of any worth as a human being.Though not a 100% correlation, if you look at the majority of leftist (and rightist) politicians, crusaders, "activists" and other people suffering from CRA their lives usually have no purpose, no core, and no meaning. They rarely work real jobs.They rarely tried hard in life choosing the path of least resistance.They produce nothing of genuine economic value.And usually hail from academia, law, government, non-profit and 9 out of 10 times have a worthless liberal arts degree.Because of this they need something to fill the void and give them some kind of "faux" point or purpose in life, but nothing that would require rigor or hard work.  And thus they not only champion leftist causes (because "other people's money" is a popular and easy platform to run on), but constantly hunt down those progressively smaller morsels of "societal ills" that "demand action be taken to solve!"  But worse, it's nearly impossible for them to ever stop feeding their egos with never-ending "do-gooderism" because in order for them to stop at the "optimal level of law" they would be forced to look in the mirror and accept two things:1.  They are in fact worthless people and their lives not only meaningless, but damaging to society2.  They would have to get real jobsAnd that the ego of a leftist cannot abide.Ergo, the ego of leftists is never ending.  It will not stop.  It will not relent.  And it will run-ramshod over your personal freedoms as long as it feeds its host.  Because after all, it's more important that politicians and bureaucrats make up new laws and regulations to feel good about their worthless-selves than you have the right to drive the car you want, eat what you want, and do what you want in this country. 
When It's This Hard to Sell Freedom, Something's Horribly Wrong 
I like to step back.Stepping back allows you to clear your mind, take the horse blinders off, but most importantly allows you to see the situation for what it truly is.For example, the eternal debate of Austrian vs. Keynesian economics.  The front lines of this battle are between economic intellectual giants on both sides of the debate.  Krugman, Reich, Williams, Sowell, you name it, heavy hitters from prestigious institutions of government and academia tender increasingly complex and researched arguments.  It's like the Battle of Somme being waged, slugging it out, with no clear winner.But what if instead of burrowing your head further into No Man's Land you instead, pull back, hop on a plane and take a look at the debate from a completely different, simpler, and admittedly, less-intellectual perspective?You'd soon realize the debate is about whether the government knows what's best for the economy and has the right to intervene or whether it should be left up to the people. The answer, if you're intellectually honest, is simply clear.Global warming is another example.  The pro-global warmists will through up a chart and claim we're all going to drown in 500 days, the anti-global warmists will show new data debunking said claims and the latest global warming models.  Sheeple will believe who they choose to.  Whoever is right, however, if you step back and look at it with different eyes you'll realize it is much more likely this is just the latest political ruse by socialists posing as caring "environmentalists" to get more of other people's money.  But you can't come to that realization if you're steeped in the religious indoctrination, or in the throes of debunking it.So a third "Step Back" observation dawned on me and its ramifications are quite depressing.  And that is:How f*cking hard is it to sell the platform of freedom to people?Step back and think about this.Those evil,meanie,bigotted,racist,fascist,baby seal clubbing,grandma trippingRepublicans want basically one simple thing:Lower taxes.And not just lower taxes for "the rich," but lower taxes for everyone.Yes, duly noted, a faction within the Republican party is against abortion.  Thank you leftists, we got the memo.  But aside from that overly beaten accusation of a drum, their overall political product is freedom.Now you would think, given logic and reason, the American people would in general want freedom.  You would think, given the history of humans, where the vast majority of them were oppressed by the government, they would want LESS government and MORE individualism.You would think.The irony is, however, that it's damn well near impossible to sell freedom to the American people.The question is why, and when you step back, clear your eyes, and think about it, the answer is quite scary.Admittedly, part of the reason American's are so resilient to freedom is that the Republicans are the worst salesmen in the world for it.  But although poor salesmanship is in part to blame, the real reason is that the American people have been brainwashed to think against their own, long term self interests.This may sound conspiratorial, but it is not.  This is only the natural consequence of a leftist political party that uses a public school system and a leftist media to convince people to;1.  Not think critically2.  Never develop the capacity for delay gratification3.  Never learn about basic personal budgeting and financial planning (you ever see this in schools?)4.  Hate and envy other, more successful groups of people, that they should be emulating instead5.  Self-rationalize why they are entitled to said successful people's lives in the form of their wealthOf course, this scam is obvious to even the part-time observer of politics.  But what is truly scary is how effective it is.  It's so effective, and the people's brain's so dumbed down and impaired, they not only can't identify this ruse for what it is, they are so far gone they actively reject and vote against something as simple and good as freedom.Naturally, I've given up and don't really care.  If people are so lacking in brain power and intellectual honesty they foolishly think they can get something for nothing and that such a system is sustainable in the long run, then they don't deserve the freedoms that true intellectual giants fought wars over to ensure.  The question is whether you can admit the same and realize you're dealing with insanity when people reject freedom.  
Why Never Being Able to Reach Your Full Potential is the Real Cause of Grief Among Conservatives and Libertarians 
It is without a doubt that conservatives, libertarians, and other generally "pro-freedom" people I categorize as "Real Americans" suffer from a malaise, depression, sadness and grief as they watch this once great nation decay under socialism.  They see the country they grew up with turn on them, breaking all the premises and social contracts by which they based life decisions on in the past.  They look to their futures now with complete uncertainty and distrust where there was once complete confidence and serenity.  They look at their American legacy that not only looks like it will be vilely shat upon by future generations, but is currently and constantly mocked, ridiculed, and criminalized today.  And making it all worse is the maddening fact that it is their fellow Americans who ignorantly and blindly believe the bold faced lies told to them by politicians, and mindlessly vote to undo the greatest thing that has happened to this planet.In short, everything they've worked for, stood for, believed, and advocated will be moot, making it seem their and their childrens' entire lives were wasted.  That this great good of freedom and Western Civilization that took humans 2 million years to achieve, will be wiped out by the idiocy and mental weakness of socialists in 50 years.  And that humanity will be plunged back into the darkness as we trade things like reality, truth, excellence, independence, individuality and freedom for false gods such as commune, egalitarianism, diversity, affirmative action, environmentalism, dependence and responsibility-free lives.Yes, it is crushing indeed.But merely admitting this fact does nothing to assuage our concerns, let alone solve the problem.  Thankfully, I believe I have happened upon something that will at least provide some relief, if not alleviate most Real Americans' grief to the greatest extent possible.It is here we may have some disagreement. whereas I personally think all is lost and that we should "enjoy the decline," others still hold out hope, thinking Western Civilization can be turned around.  But whichever camp you fall into (or hybrid thereof), neither does anything to address or identify the true, singular psychological cause of Real Americans' grief.  Therefore, if we can at least identify the primary cause of our malaise we can at least address it, deal with it, and lift this depression that plagues us.  And that problem is:That you'll never be able to reach your full potential.No matter how you look at it, be it psychological, secular, religious, darwinistic, or genetic, humans have always wanted to take this one life they have and make the absolute best of it.  They not only want what's best for them, but they want to achieve some kind of greatness.  The problem is that while everybody wants greatness in their lives, not everybody is willing to work for it.  And with the replacing of republics with democracies we have put an end to forcing meritocratic behavior on the population, and instead given the power to the masses to legally steal other people's wealth.This transformation has broken (or at least seriously weakened) the relationship between effort and success.  Worse still, it has destroyed the incentives that would inspire and propel those willing to work toward greatness.  But even worse than that, is when society no longer aspires towards excellence and greatness, nearly every aspect, institution, organ and component of society is corrupted and decayed, no longer allowing those who DO want to achieve greatness the opportunity to do so. And it is that aspect of decline that has stolen the birthright of greatness from all Real Americans.Consider how every major aspect of American life has been compromised to suit the benefit of socialists and lazy people at the expense of greatness.Education - Education is epitome of this.  Are you kidding me?  We need to have 19 YEARS of schooling before you train a human with enough skills to be considered employable in today's labor market?  K-12 is not enough?  We need a bachelors degree AND "masters preferred?"If there is an example where standards have been so lowered to benefit a corrupt network of lazy socialists at the expense of potential greatness the public schools and university system is it.  Imagine what greatness has been;squelcheddestroyedbeaten out ofbeleaguereddissolvedeliminatedbored to deathand just plain drummed out ofthe hundreds of millions of kids that had to listen to a talentless, inexperienced, 23 year old "education major" drone on 8 hours a day.  And not only "drone on," but to take genuinely interesting topics exciting (the American revolution, science, math, history, etc.) and fail so spectacularly at making them interesting to their students, that their students fall asleep.  How many future Bill Gates were "Ritalined" out of greatness?  How many Milton Friedman's feel asleep because their history teacher couldn't teach economics to save his life?  How many Thomas Edison's never materialized because they were sat in front of somebody thrice their age with 1/3rd the IQ?Additionally, this says NOTHING about the politics most public teachers are more concerned with than genuinely educating the children and creating greatness.  No it's more important Little Jimmy learns about global warming than the American Constitution.  No, it's more important he learn about diversity than financial planning.  And no, it's more important he be held back in the same class with the problem children of single mothers than be allowed to accelerate at his own pace and graduate at 13.It is mind blowing to think of the millions of child-geniuses there may have been over the past 40 years whose potential was completely lost to this society because we insisted in sending our children through mindless, indoctrination baby-sitting camps designed first and foremost to benefit the teachers unions and a daycare boon to dysfunctional families.Sadly, that's just K-12. If the education bubble has shone a light so bright even your average ignorant American idiot can see it, it's the outright scam higher education has become.  As if fleecing parents $150,000 for 13 years of property taxes wasn't enough, no, we need to fleece their children for $150,000 more.  And can anybody sit there with a straight face and say that colleges and universities offer anywhere near the education they once did, let alone an education that warrants the usurious tuition they charge?It's not so much that the higher education system failed to identify and promote child geniuses (those were all destroyed in K-12).  It's that higher education went on to cripple the finances of most normal kids as well, ensuring they never reach their full potential in life.  In the end we don't have 14 year olds capable of work and innovation, but rather 34 year olds who are still living at home.Careers - Education is not the only institution putting hurdles, if not, landmines in front of Real Americans and their desire to achieve greatness.  Most employers are too.  Gone are the days of hard work, innovation, loyalty and excellence.  Instead we have politics, ass kissing, brown nosing, and lobbying.  And don't forget diversity training, sexual harassment training, sexual harassment suits, force donations to charities, quotas, affirmative action, CSR departments, mandatory employee "community service," and progressive credentialism.Even if you were a child genius, and even if your genius was honed and sharpened for those "mandatory" 19 years of education, in 98% of the instances it would all be for naught in that most employers place more value on people skills kissing ass and not rocking the boat lying than any vaccine or new technology you can create.  It's why the likes of Schiff were mocked and ignored and books like these didn't do any damn good.  In short, corporate America is so corrupted by the incompetents that populate the country the ONLY way you'll ever come even close to your potential is through self-employment.Economic Standards of Living -A study I did showed that if the economy had grown like it did from the 1940's to the 1960's income per capita would be around $99,000 per person.Imagine the implications for standards of living.We wouldn't have a social security/medicare/pensions crisis.We wouldn't have the national debt we do todayWe wouldn't have any employment problemsWe wouldn't have anywhere near the divorce rates we have We wouldn't worry about paying for collegeAnd we wouldn't be worried about affording health careBut such an opportunity cost doesn't speak to what such excess capital could afford us.With so much money there'd be tons more innovation.  Diseases that could be cured, life expectancies would increase, technological advances would accelerate (imagine the Internet in 1973 and XBox 360 in 1981 and smart phones in 1994), whatever we have today imagine we had it 10 years ago.But no, it's more important to slow down societal progress and blunt excellence so welfare bums can collect a check and spit out more children.Family -And finally family.You are never going to have June or Ward Cleaver.For all the fun and mockery mindless, ignorant Americans made of them for being "square" and being "SWPL," in the end most Americans would kill for a loyal, beautiful, skinny wife and a handsome, wise, reliable, fatherly  husband.  Instead today you're going to get what you sow, and sadly, that SEVERELY limits your potential in life in that it limits the most important thing in your life - family.Today's selection of modern day spousal candidates have:Psychological issuesFinancial issuesFamilial issues (you know, already divorced, 3 kids, 3 different moms/dads)Drug issuesObesityAttitude Student loansWorthless degreesPoor job prospectsCredit card debtCar debtHousehold debtand a never ending litany of other deal-breaking baggage that makes a Leave it to Beaver family a 1 in a million chance.  Sadly, this is the single biggest cap on reaching your potential in life in that family and loved ones are the most important things in life.  But hey, at least some angry 70's feminists got to make 3 generations of Americans wallow in their own misery.We could address other aspects of potential-limiting in America, but you get the point.  Our general inability to achieve our best is limited as we celebrate and invest in our worst.  Had we not squandered our money on the losers of society we wouldn't have millions of youth mired in under/unemployment, but rocketing towards their best career potential.  People would have enough excess income they could pursue their dreams, resulting in new musicians, artists, innovators, authors, and the commensurate works and creations that would come with it.  Families would be more stable, resulting in a lot happier of a population.  And nearly every one of us could take our one finite life and nearly be guaranteed it would not be wasted, ensuring we'd have no regrets on our death bed.  Sadly, this reality was just barely whisked out of our grasp, and this is the kernel, the nucleus, the true cause of the grief of all Real Americans.The question is how do we cope?  How do we deal with this?There are no universal answers, but if you're willing to listen to somebody who has given it some thought, here's my suggestions:First, realize it's not your fault.  You didn't control being born into the filth of the hippie generation and the successive filth spawned after it.  You were just really unlucky.  You must accept this, but more importantly FORGIVE YOURSELF and NO LONGER TAKE RESPONSIBILITY.  You must realize and accept you cannot fight stupid and there's just too much stupid in this country.Second, come up with FEASIBLE goals you can achieve.  You may not get that skinny wife or the employed husband.  You may not get that career as a cop.  But find out what you can do and do it.  Third, realize that the most important thing in life is other humans.  Family, friends, loved ones.  I personally refuse to waste my time on leftists, socialists, feminists and other mentally damaged people.  Life is too short.  Additionally, think about the likes of Hillary Clinton and John Edwards.  Miserable people that nobody loves while they or their spouse fucks other people.  Most leftists live in a delusional world and very few are truly happy.  I say that not to make you feel better, but because it's true.  They have surrounded themselves with leftists.  How happy can a human in that environment truly be?Fourth, stay physically attractive and have sex with good looking people.  While excellence may not be permitted in terms of finance, success, or your career, there is very little the left can do to stop you from being in good shape and attracting good looking people.  This strikes at their core (envy), but gives them no way to get "retribution" in that you can't "tax" or "confiscate" beauty.  The best they can do is things like "fat acceptance" or try to shame people for being sexually attracted to what they are.  Nothing pisses off a weak, limpy male leftist or a fat, angry female feminist than two hot conservatives or libertarians enjoying each other.Fifth, collect as much government cheese as possible.  This may sound counterintuitive or at least immoral, but realize this is a democracy and society in its infinite ignorance has voted for bread and circuses.  These ARE the new rules AND THEY ARE FORCED ON YOU.  Ergo, you do yourself a great disservice and disrespect adhering to some inapplicable, higher-caliber moral code.  Play by the rules they gave you.Sixth, consider buying the book "Enjoy the Decline."  It is EXPRESSLY written for all conservatives, libertarians and Real Americans and is designed to relinquish you of as much of your anger, grief, depression and malaise as possible so you can move on and enjoy the life as much as you can.  Life is too short to be angry, sometimes it just takes a little nudge or a different viewpoint to understand how to let go of the anger...or at least not let it ruin your life. 
How the Left Murders the Individual 
I did a spoof video asking why there isn't a "White Male Appreciation Month." And though I knew it was tongue and cheek, it wasn't until a handful of of people, who were offended by it, made me have to go and think through why I found it funny.  And after a little scratching of the surface and kicking it around in my brain, I finally realized not only why I found it funny, but why it truly is funny:ANY "Appreciation Month," no matter which class or race or gender it celebrates, is stupid.Permit me to explain.In the video I (rightly) point out white males made, "well...everything."  But the punchline is that deep down inside, I am not a single one of those white males.I didn't invent electricity.I didn't invent flight.I didn't invent any medicine or vaccines.And I didn't invent the auto-mobile. Matter of fact, like most white males, I haven't invented or done much of jack with my life. But if we are to follow the logic of any race's "Appreciation Month" that shouldn't matter.  It shouldn't matter if we personally, individually didn't achieve anything.  It shouldn't matter if we sat on our asses all day drinking beer and playing video games.  It shouldn't matter if we're collecting a check, getting bailed out of our mortgage, or having illegitimate children.  All that matters is the color of your skin, your gender, your sexual preference, and BOOM!  You "magically" are entitled to just as much pride and respect as the individuals in your respective group who actually did do something of merit and worth.So because I'm a white male, I'm some how responsible and deserve respect for the accomplishments of Albert Einstein, Neils Bohr and John Oppenheimer.And if you're a black male you are somehow responsible and deserve respect for the achievements of Duke Ellington, President Obama, 50 Cent, and the Tuskegee Airmen. And both of us could be drugged out methheads with 4 illegitimate children and criminal records.Naturally there are several things wrong with this logic.First, why is it only the good accomplishments?  Shouldn't it go both ways?  Germans should have a huge complex right about now because not only are they responsible for jets, rockets, the auto-mobile, nuclear power, and space travel, they're also responsible for the Holocaust, two world wars, and the Nazi human experimentation projects.  Thus, just as it would be stupid for a German today to take pride in German achievements 50 years ago, it would be just as stupid to blame him for German atrocities 50 years ago.  Second, what if because of history, geography and things outside of your "group's" control, they didn't achieve much?  I'm still waiting for the day the NAACP and various other black groups cite and celebrate STEM heroes in the black community instead of the litany of never-heard of "civil rights leaders" or "Maya Lou Angelo" subpar-"artists."  Couldn't you cite Thomas Sowell?  How about Dr. Benjamin Carson?  Herman Cain?  In part you don't see these genuine heroes of the black community cited is because of politics.  In part it is the political nature of these "appreciation months" to paint the group as a victim to beget additional taxpayer monies.  But (sadly) another reason is that due to slavery, history, geography, etc., many people in many groups did not have the opportunity, and thus no track record of great achievers to point to as mentors and models.Ergo, what?  Are some groups condemned to really lame heroes?  Are the real heroes going to be hidden for political reasons?  Are aspiring youth in different groups going to have lower bars and standards?  Only if you make them think their heroes MUST be of the same group they are. And this gets to the truly disgusting, criminal, even outright evil aspect of these "appreciation months" - It destroys and murders the individual by replacing individual accomplishment and achievement with a trait you were born with.It's important that all people of all groups understand this because there is a genuine evil out there that wishes to destroy the one thing you have in life - yourself.  And if you don't understand this and realize the threat this poses to your life, you will waste your one precious life on this planet.   Thus, it is vital you pay attention to the next couple paragraphs.If you're like me or any other human your "self," your "consciousness," what you experience in life is not affected by your gender, your skin color, or your sexual preference.  Like me you wake up and your brain says, "Hey, I'm here."  It sees the world through the same way mine does, through our eyes, and the electrical chemical impulses shooting through your brain cells result in the same physical and mental experience every human has.  This experience is universal across all humans of all types.  It isn't until you take the time to purposely look at your arm do you notice a different in the color of your skin or bother to look down your pants do you notice a difference in sex.However, those "traits" are things you were born with.  You did nothing to earn a "vagina" just as I did nothing to earn "white skin."  They define your physical self, but not your life, your accomplishments, your adventures, or your experiences that ultimately will go into and make up "you."  Thus these physical traits have no real value and to place value on them is stupid.  This is why I don't wake up every morning and look at my arms and say, "My goodness, look how white I am!  I am so awesome!"  Nor do I wake up, look down my pants and say, "Shucks howdy!  Look at how male I am!!!  I'm totally *ahem* 'blessed'."  Nor do most of you because, well, you're sane. But the same cannot be said of many other people.  Professional race pimps, feminists, "Appreciation Month" professionals, the "Privilege Clergy," and people otherwise psychotically (or politically) obsessed with traits they were born with and never their accomplishments.  And not to simplify it (though it is that simple), but these people can cumulatively be identified as the left.  Understand precisely how evil and despicable the left is when they demand more emphasis and value be put on traits than they do individual accomplishments.  They tell you that you only have value because of characteristics you were born with.  Something completely out of your control. And that conscious you, the person inside that skull of yours with dreams and hopes and desires, the one thing that is the true you and identifies you, is worthless.It doesn't matter if you achieve anything great or unique.It doesn't matter if you want to experience a different life.It doesn't matter if you want to think differently and make this one shot at consciousness on this planet truly and uniquely yours.And it doesn't matter if your brain has the capacity and ability for greatness. No, you are black and condemned to a life of failure and racism.No, you are female and condemned to a life of pay gaps and sexism.No, you are gay and condemned to suffer at the hands of "straight-privileged" Christians.The real issue is whether you're going to believe them or not.  If you identify them for the political scum they are, dividing and pitting difference groups of Americans against one another for political gain, you will not waste this one precious and finite life you have and will achieve your own individual greatness.  But if you fall for it and actually believe you're "oppressed" and "discriminated against, " so much so to the point you actually put more value on your skin color or sex than your accomplishments, then the left has won, they stole your life,  and you as an individual have been murdered. 
The Truth About Executive Compensation 
A common whine complaint from unions and the left is about executive compensation.  That these evil, fat cat, mean, rich executives make too much money and if that money were instead to be paid out to the "real" workers in corporations, then all would be well and every child would have a pet unicorn. Like many, if not all, arguments of the left it is based in idealism and not reality.  What people want, versus what the labor market can possibly mathematically deliver.  Hope and not reality.Because of this, their arguments are founded on weak clay foundations, and it doesn't take much research or empiricism to prove them wrong.  So after (literally) 5 minutes of research I was able to pull some quick statistics and facts, do a little bit of 3rd grade math and debunk this leftist pipe-dream of an argument that has been around for decades.Once again, I'm going to go with the mostEVILVILEDISGUSTINGGREEDYHORRIBLEcorporation that ever existed - Exxon Mobil.Executive compensation, which is now required to be filed in the 10K/annual report to the SEC, can more easily be found on Morningstar which does a nice job of presenting it annually.
As you note, those evil, mean (and no doubt) 100% white male corporate executives at Exxon Mobil make on average $85 million annually in compensation.Now, what if we were to take all of it and spread it fairly across all the "real" employees at Exxon Mobil?  How much would it help those poor, disadvantaged near-slaves that are being taken advantage of by these evil executives?Well a little google searching will find that Exxon Mobil employs 75,000 employees.  You do a little 3rd grade math and you come to find out that if we stuck it to those evil, greedy (and don't forget White Male) capitalist pigs, each and EVERY employee would get a raise of  (drum roll please!!!!)....$1,133.Giggity freaking giggity.Now, let's do something I like to do to save time and advance the conversation along - predict the knee-jerk counterarguments from the left.Did you include stock options? - Yes, the SEC considers stock options, grants, and other forms of non-cash compensation in it's calculations.Well, that's just Exxon Mobil.  It's probably worse at other companies! - Then you do something for the first time and research something rather than blather.Still!  That's better than nothing!!!! - Oh shut up.The whole point is that this myth of if we "just took executive compensation and spread it across the employees, then everybody would have higher standards of living" is precisely that - a myth.  The MATHEMATICAL REALITY IS that there just aren't enough executives out there.  Yes, they make a lot of money, but given the ratio of employees to executives, it's too high to make this dream reality. Worse still for the left, this says nothing about their ultimate goal - taking executive compensation and giving it to EVERYBODY - employees, poor people welfare recipient, students, single mothers, etc. etc.  If you included the millions of dependent parasitic classes, confiscating ALL of Exxon Mobil's executives' compensation would result in an increase of just PENNIES to the average democrat voter.The truth is that relying on other people and pursuing a life of parasitism will NEVER get you to the standards of living you want.  And wasting your life lobbying, debating, and arguing for other people's money is precious time that could be otherwise spent improving yourself, your skills and your own lot in life, much more so than waiting for the democrat party to eek out an added tax "on the rich."So argue all you want.Protest all you want.Whine all you want.Stammer your feet and pout.Even if you got everything you wanted, your life would still suck because (and here's the sad truth) you suck.So stop sucking at life and do something with it instead of sticking your hand out.  
What's Really Driving the Basic Guaranteed Income 
I happily discovered a new treasure trove of podcasts.  They focus primarily on the history of the UK, but also delve into world history, wars, etc., allowing me to further educate myself in an arena I am woefully ignorant in.  But something interesting happened while listening to a podcast.During one of the interviews you could clearly hear the interviewer and interviewee.  But in the background you could hear a woman singing.  Turns out the interview was being recorded at a cathedral of some sort and as part of the ambiance they had a woman singing.  But then my rapid economic mind started thinking, thought through, and then concluded a thought in less than a second:"Is that really a woman singing?In the olden days I'm sure it was, but with technology it's likely just a recording being played on a stereo system.So that woman only had to record he singing once.I wonder what she does with all of her free time now.God do I hate San Fransisco taxi cab drivers."The last bit of logic may not make sense, but it does if you allow for a little bit of economic hand holding.  For the woman singing in the church (either past or present), the taxi cab drivers in San Francisco and the call for a "Basic Guaranteed Income" are all highly related and provide for us a great lesson and insight into the economics and political motivation of the basic guaranteed income.The argument for a "basic guaranteed income" (BGI) is that as technology and science progresses, more and more human jobs will become obsoleted and replaced by automation and robotics.  This presents the paradox that goods and services are still being produced, but without jobs people have no income to buy said goods and services.  Therefore, as robots replace humans (leaving them no income) we should guarantee all humans with a "basic income" allowing them to afford the basic necessities in life.However, for this argument to have integrity there must be absolutely NO JOBS available for the displaced human labor.  I've argued before that this simply isn't true as no matter how much technology advances there will be two forms of employment:1.  The "vanity services" where humans serve other humans (waiters, masseuses, prostitutes, authors, entertainers, servants, etc.) and2.  The robotic support industry (the STEM professionals who keep this progressively roboticized economy going). However, my argument aside, history provides enough of an argument to debunk the pro-BGI claims.  No matter how much technology advances, there are always completely new industries, replete with jobs that replaces the old ones.Horse and buggy manufacturers were simply replaced with auto-manufacturers.Phone manufacturers were replaced by smart phone producers.And employees at the vinyl shop were merely replaced with IT employees allowing for MP3 recording.In other words, this "creative destruction" didn't replace humans as much as it forced them to be innovative and creative in other endeavors as it replaced and obsoleted previous technologies.But that's the key thing - forced humans to be innovative and creative.  And a lot of humans plain don't like that.Some humans, when facing obsolescence simply do the adult thing and accept this reality.  They move on, learn a new skill or trade, start over again, reinventing themselves earning living.  Some humans go so far as to become entrepreneurs, capitalizing on ideas and revolutions in the economy, providing employment and higher standards of living for others.  But then there are some who are so delusional, so arrogant, so self-centered, they actually believe that the real world should not advance without their authorization.  And if the world "dares" to progress to the point it obsoletes their careers, then the world indeed "owes them a living."These people constitute a parasitic class that can only be described as lazy and entitled.  The union worker who demands his pension despite the company going bankrupt.  The person who gets laid off and decides to go on the permanent government dole.  Or the pouty school administrator that gets fired by a gracious and generous early retirement severance.  These people are economically worthless individuals, providing nothing of net economic value to society at all.But while these people may be economically worthless, at least these people have the good graces to get the hell out of the way and let society advance.  They just want their check and they're happy (or at least as happy as these miserable humans can be).  Sadly, there's an even more despicable group of people that make these veritable economic parasites look noble as they are so arrogant, so self-centered, and so egomanical they not only demand recompense, but they demand the rest of the world stop and not advance without them. And that's where the San Francisco taxi cab drivers come in.Technologies like Lyft and Uber have obsoleted taxi cabs.  They are now officially an inferior service.  Like the record companies, the book publishers, and the horse and buggy industry they should accept this fact and either adapt by becoming Uber/Lyft providers themselves or find a new industry to work in.However, taxi cab drivers are not only entitled, they're evil.  And I'm not saying that as a pejorative, but as a descriptive.  San Francisco taxi cab drivers are evil because instead of letting society advance, letting the people of San Francisco enjoy higher standards of living (which is what the whole point and purposes of technology and economic advancement is), they threw a temper tantrum and held the city hostage by causing traffic jams with their cars. In no uncertain words, these few people view themselves MORE IMPORTANT than the rest of society and have no problems holding back, nay punishing these people for daring to aspire for a better life.Of course taxi cab drivers are not the only example of this.  Chicago's infamous toll roads with their manually stationed tolls were so heavily unionized that the metro population of Chicago was held hostage WAAAAY past the point in time traffic scanning technology made such tolls obsolete.  The public schools and higher education are another example of unneeded, worthless, obsoleted humans that have no moral qualms holding children hostage in ransom for "more money for schools."  And I never tire of the dinosaur publishing houses stammer their little feet as they (futilely) try to stop self-publishers.Regardless, the point is that human nature is pathetic.  And the proponents of the BGI know this and are banking on it.  For if a soon-to-be-obsoleted-human is given the choice:a.  Start anew, learn new skills and participate in the new and revolutionized economyb.  Collect a checkc.  Not only collect a check, but demand society never be allowed to advance so I can save my ego by keeping my unneeded jobmost humans are so lazy, and some so egotistical, they'll choose either b or c.  And that is what truly is behind the drive for the BGI.The BGI is not something that is "noble" or "compassionate."  It is not something that is "caring" or "kind."  It is a blatant attempt by socialists and leftsits in academia and government to buy votes by placating the laziness, ego, and self-centeredness of a progressively worthless human population.  They are merely presenting the false premise that "creative destruction" does not exist (ergo, there will be "no jobs"), while knowing full well the average American schlep is to proud, too ego-filled to work the menial service jobs that will exist, and too lazy to train for the STEM jobs that would also exist.But where the real evil comes in is where I predict there will be a "third category" of jobs - "ego employment."  Jobs that are not only unnecessary, but hold society back by either denying society the ability to progress, or at minimum taxing them to create make-work jobs, ALL of which are simply to save the ego of a voting constituent.It does indeed make the parasite who merely collects a government check look noble. 
Undermining Private Property 
Permit yourself a bit of intellectual freedom.And when I say "intellectual freedom," I mean for once just let your mature, logical, intellectually honest adult mind enjoy some thought without1.  Worrying about how leftists would respond2.  Worrying about how you'd defend this against leftists3.  Pulling up arguments tendered by the left that I would have to address should I wish to waste another second of my finite life doing so.Just, for once, enjoy a true intellectual experience in economics where you are allowed to dedicate 100% of your thoughts towards the topic at hand, allowing us to have an adult conversation uninhibited or impaired with the childish and regressive brains of socialists.Got rid of those concerns?Good, here we go.Private property, without a doubt, is one of, if not "the" most important thing when it comes to having economic growth and success.  The reason is very simple - in order to incent people to work hard and thus produce economic growth they need to be allowed to keep the vast majority of the fruits of their labor.  If they aren't they have no incentive to forfeit their finite and precious time in the form of labor because, frankly, it's nothing more than slavery.We can see this not only in something as obvious as slavery, but even in communist or near-communist states.  If I am taxed at 100% then what incentive do I have to work?  And even if I'm taxed at 0%, but can't buy property or own anything, then I might as well have no income.  This simple 5th grade logic is not only understood by...well...5th graders, but it has also played out empirically in the history of the world with the handful of communist regimes coming into existence...putting their populations into decades-worth of misery...before collapsing...but not without first killing more people in peacetime than any war ever could.Because of this private property presents the greatest economic threat and greatest economic potential to the world's free societies.  Do you protect it, enshrine it, defend it and advocate it as much as possible?  Or do you punish it, destroy it, confiscate it, criminalize it, excoriate it and tax it as much as possible?  The difference is the unrivaled economic success of the west and, well, the rest of the world.To those of us capable of long term planning, delayed gratification, post-stage-one thinking, morality, or who just give a damn about the future of society (not to mention, know a little history), we are obviously huge champions of private property.  But for those incapable of delayed gratification, post-stage-one thinking, morality or long term planning, the temptation of merely confiscating other people's property for their own personal advancement is just too tempting.  And thus the problem facing democratic countries today - there's just too many of the later with the right to vote.This has resulted in an interesting phenomenon where there's a tug of war between what I like to call the "producers" and the "parasites" because that's what they truly are.  The "left" votes for more of other people's money, while the "right" merely votes to keep what's theirs.  And thusly taxation levels ebb and flow in the western world from between 33% on the low end to 60% on the high end.But before you celebrate paying "only" 36% of your property here in the US, it's important to clear the gunk from our eyes and take a fresh look at precisely what is "private property" and precisely how it is being undermined here in the US and elsewhere.First, to any self-respecting individual, forking over nearly 40% of your life, wealth and labor to a state where 70% of it merely goes to bribe the parasites into voting for more of it is enraging.  Emotional and intellectually dishonest arguments from the left aside, you don't owe 14 years of your 50 year career being a literal slave to other people too lazy to work.  So right off the bat, the fact 36% of your life is being confiscated is enough to show you property private is being undermined.Second, the sheer amount of effort that goes into obfuscating just how much of your property is being taken.  When people think "property taxes" they usually think real estate.  And usually this is such a finite example most people understand the fact you don't technically own your property because you perpetually rent it from the state (worse still, even the presumedly conservative North Dakotans went full-sheeple and refused permit themselves to TRULY own their own homes).  But the truth of the matter is people do not understand precisely what property is.  For it is not your house or your land or even the assets within your home.Property in it's purest form is your time.I've addressed this before, but there really is no such thing as your house or your XBox or your car.  These are things merely composed and purchased with human time.  You exchange your time in the form of labor for some "money."  This "money" is nothing more than a tool, a claim on other people's time.  You then pay various people to build you a home, a car or an XBox One.  In short there would be no property, there would be no assets, if there was no human time.  Ergo, "property" IS your time and what you do with it.  Typically "what you do with it" is either generate income or purchase assets.  Therefore the cash in your bank account, the stocks in your brokerage account, the food in your fridge, and the house the fridge is sitting, EVERYTHING you've earned, made or saved by forfeiting your time is property.What this means is that ALL taxation is on property.  The divisions between "capital gains tax," "income tax," "sales tax," "dividend tax," and "estate tax" are merely semantics, obscuring and obfuscating the truth - that all taxes are taxes on your finite and limited time on this planet.  All taxes are on your life via the tangible property you converted that life into.  However, because people rarely think of property as they way they should, they remain clueless as to just how much their private property is undermined (much like normal people are clueless how withholding taxes work).Finally, even if you did own your property outright, and there were no taxes on its creation, ownership, purchase or sale, the state further undermines private property in one huge regard - regulation.Tell property owners who were willing to sell "their" to the Keystone pipeline they own it.Tell Duluth Metals they owned the $100 billion mine in Ely, Minnesota when the regulators constantly denied permits to drill.And tell any home owner in the "republicanny" suburbs that they can build their own home without having some bored, tyrannical soccer mom or trophy wife city council member force a million unnecessary codes down their throats.Even if you could theoretically and economically "own" your property good luck being able to use it as you see fit with a state that ultimately deems it "theirs."The consequences of all this undermining and destruction of private property are what most of my readers can guess.  There is slower economic growth.  Less domestic investment.  More capital flight.  Lower labor force participation.  And a general stagnation in standards of living.  But it is important to know precisely, economically why, especially in the most simplified of terms - taxation in all of its forms is ultimately a tax on your ultimate private property - your finite life.  And when people's lives are taxed, especially when used to pay for other people's lives, the deterrence to economic production is great and the economy suffers as it should. 
How Whites Are Playing the Victim Game Too 
If there is one thing I hate it is the "victim game" that various groups of people play.The reason I hate it so much is not because it's theft, but it's such a cowardly, hypocritical, and (above all else) KNOWING act these thieves put on.  For when you take away all the lies, hypocrisies, falsehoods, and flawed premises, the person mugging you is not just stealing from you, but telling you it's your own fault.  Sometimes, so outlandishly they claim you're unaware of it, which is nothing more than the epitome of cowardice and hypocrisy - ie - accusing people of "privilege."But no matter how much wool they try to pull over people's eyes, I know thieves and parasites when I see them.  And when I'm accused of "privilege" or that somehow a group is "disadvantaged" and the solution (surprisingly) is always "more of my money" I know it's just a ruse that less-intelligent and less-self-respecting people succumb to.But the "Victimhood Game" has taken a very nasty turn.  One so crafty I almost didn't see it when it was staring me in the face.  And one so disgusting it makes me even angrier than when minorities fake-claim they're oppressed (because they at least have a tangential line of logic to their reasoning):Spoiled brat suburbanite white people.At first you may say,"Cappy, how do spoiled brat suburbanite white people play the victim game?  By the fact they're white, spoiled, and suburbanite, they can't possibly be victims in any capacity or another!"But,ohhhhhh, my fellow lieutenants and economists, they have indeed, and this is where it is particularly dishonest, disgusting, disingenuous, and pathetic, as well as pure genius.  For while you are correct that a white male who grew up with all the advantages of a upper middle class upbringing and the "correct" color of skin cannot claim to be a victim, he can if there's something wrong with him.Welcome to the world of fake mental illness.I wasn't able to connect the dots on this one until two seemingly unrelated events occurred in my little online media empire in close proximity to each other.  But once they did, and once I connected the dots, not only was it painfully obvious what was really happening, but it was enraging as to just what level of sloth, laziness, cowardice, and parasitism these humans had degraded to.The first one was when my e-mail started lighting up with readers and viewers saying the "Amazing" Atheist had done a response video on my video about fake mental illness.  He (and thousands of his followers) were very much enraged that I dared to say I was sick of all the fake kids claiming they had "ADD," ADHD," "Aspergers," and lord knows whatever the latest flavor of made up psychoses the American Psychiatric Association, the public schools, and Big Pharma were concocting.  But despite these diseases obviously being overdiagnosed and despite legitimate concern about their veracity, the fact I dared to say they were people falsely claiming they had these diseases threw the 660,000 strong Amazing Atheist community into a tizzy.True to their self-proclaimed form, they went psycho.Death threats.Incoherent tirades of cursing and threats."Cut your balls off and shove it down your throat."Even the host (a 6'7" hybrid "bully-nerd") bravely said he'd kick my 5'9" ass if he ever saw me in public.But for all the saber-rattling and indignation, I failed to realize what was going on.  I thought I had just pissed off a community of basement-dwelling nerds, was somewhat shocked a guy like the Amazing Atheist had the following he did, but in the end said "Meh, oh well, time to go write a book."It wasn't until the second event did I see clearly what was going on.  This event had a similar origin and pathology.I once again made a video.The video was questioning about many men who claimed to be MGTOW's (Men Going Their Own Way) were men who were too cowardly or lazy to try to date girls in the first place and opted instead to claim to be "MGTOW" when in reality they were just afraid of rejection and failure.  In short they really weren't truly independent minded men who consciously chose to "go their own way," but were cowards who either didn't have a choice or never tried in the first place, and abused the MGTOW concept as an excuse.And, like the fury from the Amazing Atheist cult, the backlash I received was equally vocal and ferocious."Kick your ass."I'm a pussy.I don't own MGTOWHow dare you "X, Y, and Z"etc. etc.However, unlike the Amazing Atheist community (which I largely ignored and just quietly accepted his traffic) because I was closer to the MGTOW community, I went and attempted to defend myself.  And this proved to be the key, the link between the two groups that opened my eyes to what was really happening.In nearly ALL of the debates, discussions, and arguments I had, NOT ONE person was intellectually honest, listened to or digested what I said, purposely took things out of context, even outright lied about what I said.  It soon dawned on me I was not arguing with mentally sane, mature adults, interested in advancing a discussion or figuring out reality, but rather people who had mental problems and lived in a delusional world.  And the reason for their passion and blind rage over what I had stated was that it assailed the one mental lie they told themselves to keep themselves sane.  It shined a light onto their hypocrisy.  It forced a mirror in their face and told them the truth.And nothing pisses off delusional people like the truth.It took a while, but within a week of (futilely) battling it out on discussion boards and receiving concurrent residual hate-mail from the Amazing Atheist crowd, I put it together.  The butt-hurt, enraged poser-MGTOW community was the opposite side of the same coin as the hate-mailing, Amazing Atheist community and the copper-nickel-clad they shared in this coin was...mental illness.Think of it this way.Say you are a white person who grew up in the suburbs.  You've had every advantage handed to you.  But, like all other humans, you have an aversion and distaste for work and labor.  Nothing wrong with that.  Laziness was a great calorie-saving survival strategy for 2 million years of humankind's existence.  But thanks to western civilization, technology, and economics laziness and sloth are an outdated and obsoleted survival strategy.  You need to work no matter what your aversion to it.However, for some groups of people (specifically anybody not "white" or "male") politicians have fed them an outright lie of victimization to protect their egos and get them work-free money, all in exchange for their votes.  However, the human brain is not dumb.  And either consciously or unconsciously, "privileged" white kids and their SWPL parents started to realize that they/their children were not "victims."  Matter of fact, they'd by logical default become the hosts to parasites.  You combine this subconscious premise with the innate human aversion to work and the ego and pride that comes with modern day Americans, and there's a pressure, if not full-blown race to become a victim.But left with no physical trait that would visually make them a distinguishable victim, an entire generation of weak-ass Millennials raised by equally pathetic Gen-X parents went SCRAMBLING to find a flaw.  To find a disability.  To a find a weakness that would also grant their children the much-coveted "victim status" and all the excuses from being a responsible, reliable, self-supporting adult (not to mention all of the socialist financial perks).Enter fake (or at least) overly-diagnosed BS mental illnesses.ADDADHDCivilian PSTD Dyslexia AspergersThighdogsandCheekfilletsAnd thus what we have today and the "fad" of either claiming you have a disability or your dumbass child does.Of course, this merely addresses the financial incentives humans have to play the victimhood game and attain some kind, any kind of "victim status."  Claim you're a victim, claim your oppressed, have society lower standards for you and sometimes just give you free money.  But what it doesn't address is the emotional, violent, angry, and hate-filled reaction you get for daring to point this scam out.  If a thief is a thief, at least he admits it, takes the money, and doesn't care.  But if you point it out to the Professional Victims they get more enraged at being accused of being a thief than Hans Gruber. Enter ego.Understand people who play the victim game (who are indeed not genuinely "disabled," suffer from a real mental illness, or have anything wrong with them) are parasites.  And parasites, by definition have no core, no purpose, no value, and no agency.  Thus, with nothing of real and genuine value, they instead double down on the only thing that defines them - their fake victimhood status - and wear it like a badge of honor.You see this in the real world a lot.People who instead of defining themselves by their trade or profession tell you they're a "pan-sexual, transgendered, dyslexic" (no doubt getting their "masters in Gender Studies.")The high school kid that within 3 minutes of conversation cannot help but force into the conversation they are dyslexic or suffer from ADD.The parents who almost say with pride that their child suffers from some mental disease or another (but still reads at a 7th grade level, despite being in the 4th grade).And it's the only way I can think of somebody unmentionable like the Amazing Atheist garnering 660,000 followers.But if you dare come out of left field and call BS on them, claiming it's all an elaborate ruse to avoid work and the rigors of the real world, you not only take away, but destroy the ONE and ONLY thing they have in their lives (no matter how much of a lie it is).  You destroyed their core.  you destroyed their religion.And thus the violent reaction.Violent reaction or not, however, we need to be very clear what is happening in society and the US. Weaker minded people, who eschew work and the rigors of the real world are cowardly scrambling to find any reason, any excuse to do so.  Vile leftist politicians have already capitalized on dividing the country across racial, sexual, gender, and religious lines, typically pitting all groups against the convenient bogeyman of "the White Male."  But do not think this has anything to do with race, sex, or sexual preference.  It is a HUMAN trait, a default setting to be lazy.  And ALL humans will be tempted to scramble and find a "weakness," a "disability" and play the victim as long as there's money and the avoidance of work in it.White kids in the suburbs capitalizing on having a "mental disability" is merely the latest poison in this trend. 
 
Why the Left Co-opts Society's Awards 
If I were to say:"Oscars""Grammy's""The Nobel Peace Prize""Pulitzer" and"Ivy League"chances are most of you would have a twinge of a slimy, snakey, oily type of feeling in your stomach.  The hair on your neck would likely be rising.  And your eyes would squint, showing a hint of distrust.  This is a good sign because it shows your instincts, which have been honed over the past 2 million years to detect BS, are working just fine.  Because as time has gone on, these "prizes," "awards," and "clubs" that were once signs and proof of being the best and elite in our society, are now nothing more than obsoleted and meaningless status symbols that have been co-opted by the left to serve and advance their political agenda.The Oscars no longer measure what was the best film or who was the best actor.It's a platform for clueless (but culturally commanding) celebrities to vomit their leftist ideology.The "Ivy League" is no longer where the best and brightest of our country go to study.It's a club for rich, incompetent children to network with other rich, incompetent children.And Mr. Obama's Nobel Peace Prize?  Heh, it might as well be the prize in a Crackerjack box.But why does the left want to infiltrate, take over, and then use these institutions to merely award themselves awards?  What's in it for them?  And why are the hairs on the back of our necks going up when we hear about these awards?The reasons be these answers three:One - False Proof of Authority/SuperiorityWhile you, me, and anybody else with half a brain have our BS detectors go off when you mention these awards, the majority of people do not.  They really still believe that if it won a Grammy, then it must be the best song.  If it won an Oscar, it was the best movie.  And that if you graduated from the Ivy League, you're really smart.So if the left can control the electing or governing bodies of these institutions they essentially can "prove" to the sheeple of society that they are indeed right, correct, superior, authoritative, smarter and better than everybody else.This is the best book to be reading.This is the best musician to be listening to.This is the smartest person in the class.This is the best journalist in the country.Of course, none of that is true.  President Obama (both a graduate from the Ivy League and Nobel prize winner) is neither smart, nor a noteworthy peace maker.  But that doesn't matter.  The left has won over the key voting boards to give him these now-plastic trophies which dupes enough Americans into voting him (and other talentless leftists) into office.Two - Lowering/Eliminating StandardsLeftists hate only one person more than somebody who has more money than they do.  A superior person.Superior at what?Superior at anything.LooksPhysiqueAtheleticsSmartsWorkEntrepreneurshipArtBeautyThe left cannot simply abide it.  So to ensure NOBODY is better than them at anything, they try to change the actual definition of "good," "bad," "excellent" etc., resulting in behavior that has just become simple insanity:Fat acceptanceElimination of the honor rollElimination of keeping scoreTrigger warningsThe beach body protests27th place trophiesThe protests against Page 3 modelsand let's not forget the outright circus that "victimhood" has become as professional victims claim oppression because of race, sex, ethnicity, privilege, 37 different genders, and lord knows what else.Regardless, the aim of this insanity is very simple.  If they can eliminate standards, then they can hide their true selves - lazy, worthless, inferior people who (typically) live parasitic lives.However, merely "surviving" is not enough for these people.  And though they do their best to hide in the elimination of standards, their psychology still needs to be the best at "something," ergo...Three - EgosMore than masking their true nature, leftists need these awards, institutions, etc., to feed and protect their egos.Making money isn't enough.Being in power isn't enough.Having complete victory over the United States isn't enough. They need to be recognized and honored with trinkets and awards no matter how worthless the brand name of those awards have become.You see this especially with Hilary Clinton.  The woman has more money than she could ever need.  She owes ALL of her success to her rich father and her philandering husband.  But instead of divorcing the guy and moving on her merry, luxurious way, she still needs to be in the spotlight.  She needs to run for president.  She needs to become a senator.  She needs to become the Secretary of State.  And she needs all those people fawning over her when she delivers speeches for $500,000 a crack.The reason why is because deep down inside she knows she hasn't done anything of value truly on her own.  But she is so afraid of the toil, work ethic, and slavery required of that would be required of such real accomplishment, that her fear is stronger than the shame she has in taking the plastic trinkets, playing "make-believe powerful woman," imagining herself to be an accomplished individual.And so not only do they award themselves awards to fool people into thinking they're the "best," they do it so they can fool themselves as well.Unfortunately, this facade is not going to last.  And the reason is very simple.  The internet.The internet is breaking the left's grip on the scams these awards have become.  Nearly all forms of media and art are now directly marketable to the consumer, doing away with gate keepers such as editors, guilds, publishing houses, and record companies.  People are also allowed to effectively vote, not just with their dollars, but likes, follows, retweets, traffic, etc.  And while the dying dinosaurs fight desperately to insist that they are the only true "chosen ones" to determine what is "best" in society" with these archaic and outdated awards, the true democracy that comes with the internet is proving empirically otherwise and identifying society's real champions.It's why fewer people are watching the Grammys.It's why fewer people are watching the Oscars.It's why nobody cares that you went to Cornell.And it's why everyone knows Obama winning the Nobel Peace prize made the prize a joke.The truth is, this is one of the few bright spots in society I see.  Previous to the internet everything was filtered either through a MSM network, an editor, or a publisher.  And people really didn't know if "X" was the best movie or "Y" was the most deserving candidate for the "Presidential Medal of Freedom."  Now, not only do we have the ability to know just what a farce these awards have become, but nearly every award has been replaced with a digital judging system wherein all people get to determine who and what is the best in our countries.  Enjoy that decline!  
Arguing Past Their Narrative 
If you are like me, you don't like to waste time.  Not only because you don't like to "waste your time" in a classical sense, but you also likely had the epiphany you are going to die and any precious moment in your life that is wasted either not entertaining you or serving you in some longer term capacity is in an economic sense tolerating partial suicide.  To that end you've likely made some (very important) changes in life that have not only saved you time, but led to a happier and more content life.

You no longer tolerate a commute insisting on working from home or living next to work.
You stopped watching TV realizing no amount of mindless sitcoms will replace one quality  conversation with your loving, but ailing grandfather.
Or you have given up on MSM, instead reading alternative media, or perhaps giving up on media altogether knowing you won't change this batshit insane world. 

Whatever it is, you've realized your life is too short to waste on things that either don't matter or things you can't do anything about, and have instead opted to spend that time on things that actually matter in life and will make you happy.And debating with leftists  (and politics in general) should be one such thing you also strike from the list.It took me a while to realize this, but after nearly 15 years of providing undeniable economic and empirical proof socialism just plain doesn't work and that free markets provides a morally and empirically superior society and economy, ONLY to have every single leftist I was trying to convince dismiss it with some weak or cowardly form of flawed logic ("well, perception is reality" was my favorite), it dawned on me I was not reasoning or arguing with intellectually honest or rational humans.Quite the contrary.It was like 1981 where I was arguing with my teachers I had in parochial school.They were ideologues. The were zealots.They were cultists and fanatics.No amount of fact, truth, reason, logic, or empiricism was going to convince them.  And that the key to "winning" the debate was not found in economics, history, or facts, but through psychology, emotion, mockery, and insult.  And even then, most would still adhere to their false religion, rendering all my efforts wasted, and thus a "partial suicide" of my infinitely more important life.So I made a change.  I no longer debated economics or threw up charts.  I no longer tried to reason with people on the left.  And I rarely bothered ever pulling data.  I hopped on my motorcycle, went riding, climbed mountains, hiked national parks, went dancing, drank, fucked pretty girls, panned for gold, ate sushi, lived life, and if I EVER got into it with leftists I immediately went emotional and personal.  Mocking and ridiculing them, pointing out their degrees were worthless, agitating feminists that they were ugly, telling single moms their market value's been halved, and other arguments/tactics I would have largely regarded as "sophomoric" or "beneath me" all of 5 years ago, but now realized these are their "modern day equivalent weapons" by which they fight, and are the only tactics that they're aware of and affect them.However, (though it feels good) merely agitating them and angering them about their reality of life does nothing to "win" the war many of you are still trying to wage against them.  And while I don't expect many conservatives or libertarians to just give up the fight, get vasectomies, tell their boss to shove it, go Lester Burnham on life, and join me on my next motorcycle trek out west, I do know for those of you insist on staying in the fight need to change your tactics because it is not working, will never work, and not only will you lose the war, but your children (if you foolishly decided to bring some into this world) are going to pay the price.  Thus, the importance of "arguing through their narrative."Understand one simple thing about "socialism" "leftism" "liberalism" "communism" or whatever you want to call it.It is nothing more than the lazy of society demanding the hard working and industrious be their slaves.It is NOTHING more complicated than the parasites of society demanding the producers support and pay for them.I don't care how many pages "Das Kapital" is.I don't care how many millions of hours the thousands of liberal arts professors lecture.And I don't care how many trillions of words they and the MSM write in journals or "research studies."In the end, when you boil it down, ALL leftism is is a group of lazy people who don't want to work for a living and want to live off of other people. That's it. That's all. That one sentence summarizes the libraries worth of socialist literature throughout all of historySocialism is parasitism.Naturally this stance (parasitism) is untenable and indefensible.  NOBODY is willing to be the host in this relationship, and no-would-be-parasite's ego is willing to admit they are a parasite.Thus, the majority, if not, all of the effort put forth by the left is NOT merely taking other people's money, but coming up with reasons, rationalization, and excuses to steal other people's money.  And you see it in nearly all of their arguments/political platforms:I'm discriminated against by white males because I'm _____________.We don't spend enough on educationWe don't spend enough on health careWe don't spend enough on the poor/Social JusticeCollege isn't all about the moneyWar on women (glass ceiling, rape culture, wage gap)Corporations/the rich control everythingWe need to tax producing countries to stop global warmingI could go on, but all of the arguments above, ALL OF THEM, no matter how "noble sounding" serve only one purpose and one purpose only - to transfer money from the producers of society to the parasites."We need more money for education for the children" when translated DIRECTLY into English should read:"A bunch of us lazy people who decided at 17 we didn't want to work hard so we chose "education" as our majors want the rest of you hard working people to pay for our cake and 9 months a year cushy jobs.  And if you don't then we're going to claim you hate children because we don't want you to even think about just what parasites we are."When you hear "College isn't all about the money" you should translate that DIRECTLY into English to read:"We are a bunch of worthless parasites who don't want to work real jobs and found government academia to be a place where we are overpaid professors, who are simply paid to indoctrinate your children to simply vote the parasite class more money while charging $400 per credit for tuition and $400 for our book that is constantly underrevision so used books can never be used again."And when you hear "I need money because I'm discriminated against because I'm (fill in your choice de jour)HispanicblackfemaletransgenderedAsiangay, (or the newest victim fad) "have ADDHDHDDDHHHD"that should translate directly into English to read:"I'm a coward and am going to hide behind a trait I was born with to claim I'm a victim because claiming to be a victim will get me additional funds and special treatment throughout my life at the expense of others.  I will also be doubly cowardly and disingenuous claiming anybody who dares to suggest my personal decisions resulted in my status in life is a rac/sex/misogyn/ist."In short, nearly all of the left's argument is a spectacularly HUGE strawman that few conservatives and libertarians realize is one.   And if they fail to realize it's a strawman, their efforts are misdirected and no progress is made on winning the debate.Once a leftist claims they need your money because "you can't spend enough on our children" conservatives and libertarians foolishly think that is their argument!  And off they go, rushing to pull data that shows more money on education doesn't equal better schools.Or when a feminist claims "rape" is an epidemic on college campuses, again, conservatives and libertarians think THAT is their argument.  And once again, foolishly rush off to pull the factual data that college women are raped at rates less than the general population.And heaven help you if you're accused of racism or sexism or any other "ism."  Again, soooo predictably, the conservative or libertarian will scramble to prove they are NOT a racist or sexist, completely abandoning the original argument, and now debating a completely new and irrelevant one.The reality is they just want your money, and will stop any no dirty trick or lie to get it."You can't spend enough on our children" is "give us teachers more of your money.""Rape is an epidemic" is "we women's studies professors can't find jobs and need government grant money.  Give us some because we don't want to get real jobs and we don't care how many young men's lives we ruin with false rape claims."And "Give me more money because you discriminate against me" is "I'm the true bigot and have no problem falsely blaming people of your sex and skin color for oppressing me because not only will it get me more of your money, but it will assuage me of any personal responsibility that my shitty life is the result of my own horrendously stupid decisions."To quote Charles Grodin from "Midnight Run""It's all about the fucking money!"Alas, this presents conservatives and libertarians who want to "win this war" a choice.  You can keep arguing against the false premises even the left doesn't believe in or start arguing against their true motives and incentives.  This is easier said than done because the left (and its accompanying entities of the government, academia, and the media) is so hardwired to play victim that any direct accusation will IMMEDIATELY result in accusations of you being an "ist" AND attempts to dox you, ruin your career, and ruin your name.  So just imagine a single, black mother of 5 with 4 different fathers starts blaming ("that ole classic") "White Males Keep On Oppressing Me" and you publicly come out saying,"No you stupid slut, it's not white males.  It's because you can't keep it in your pants or go on birth control.  And it is you who is the racist and sexist blaming white males for your incomprehensibly stupid decisions."If you did that, nearly every brainwashed, sheeple facet of society (and conscious leftist agent in the government, media, and academia) would post what you said on the internet, misquote you, and misconstrue your words to the best of their ability to paint you as a bigot, racist, blah blah blah.  And whatever career you may have once had is now gone because you are forever "googleable" henceforth.And THAT is the real reason your hands are tied.I can be flippant about this because in an ironic sense that is how I make my living.  If I could summarize my business model, I sell the truth which has been so villainized by the left that it is effectively an outlawed drug.  This not only makes truth a rare commodity, but I can charge a premium for it.  The only price is I have to endure is that I will never have a "normal" life again (you know the one with a cubicle career, commute, taxes, a mortgage, children I can't afford, and divorce).Most republicans, conservatives, and non-conspriacy-theorist-liberatarians cannot afford this as they have kids, a mortgage, a career, etc., that would be ruined by arguing past the narrative and pointing out the emperor has no clothes.  But until that time comes, until the vast majority of conservatives and libertarians get the balls and courage to basically just say, "no, you're a parasite who wants other people's money and you're hiding like a coward behind children/your skin color/gender/etc to get it" we will all just be spinning our wheels responding to their red-herring arguments:"No no, I'm for the children!  I just think we can spend the money better!""No no!  I'm not a racist!  See I have this sort of 1/8th black friend!""No no!  I don't hate women!  I just think more of them should major in STEM!"In the meantime, those fortunate enough not to need "the system" will simply boil down leftists and make the only argument that matters:"You're a bunch of cowards and parasites, and all you want is for me to be your slave to support you."And no progress is going to be made until we all do the same.  
"But the 50's Were Racist!" 
It is without debate that the 1940's through the 1960's were America's "golden years" wherein:Economic growth was nearly double what it is todayUnemployment was half of what it is todayThe national debt averaged half of what it is today (relative to GDP)andHigh school graduates could graduate AND GET JOBS without endebting themselves pursuing worthless degrees.Life was better.  The economy was better. And the future much brighter. Of course, since the 50's were largely the pinnacle economic achievement of free markets, those on the left must attack it.  And thus, with the assurance of a ball returning while playing against a wall in one-man tennis, you can reliably predict two common arguments the left will use when trying to tear down those glorious 50's:    1.  The highest income tax bracket was 91% in the 50's    and    2.  The 50's were "raaaaayccccissss"The first argument is easily debunked because so few people were in the 91% income tax bracket that its leftist-desired wealth redistributive effects were not realized, nor did it really affect the economy.  Additionally, using the REAL tax rate (that would be "spending as a percentage of GDP" for you non-economists out there) shows overall taxation much lower in the Evil Racist 50's than what we have today (25% GDP at state federal and local vs. the 35% we have today, and that includes the Korean War).But the "But the 50's Were Racist" argument the left uses to chicken-out of this economic debate is particularly obnoxious.  For not only is it  a non-sequitira red herringintellectually dishonestcuteamusing childishand ultimately irrelevant to the economic debate (attempting) to be had,it's down right tiresome.  Alas, time to take this pathetic canard down.The first and most obvious flaw with this argument is the fact that IN NO POINT IN TIME in the history of THE ENTIRE WORLD was there "no problems."  ANY point ANYWHERE in history there was always something bad going on.The roaring 20's?  Untreatable cancer.The industrial revolution?  Polio.Roman empire?  Slavery.The Renaissance?  Cheating spouses.You might as well respond to the argument that "the 80's was an economic miracle" with "yeah, but the Challenger blew up."Bad things existing or happening during an booming economy does NOT moot the economic production that occurred during those times, NOR the variables/policies that lead to said booming economy.Two, (and you need to follow the logic on this VERY CLOSELY and CLEARLY): In claiming racism is a valid enough reason to debunk and dismiss the economic boom of the 50's, this MUST mean that the left believes racism had a causal relationship (in part) with the economic boom. Otherwise they would be intellectually honest and aim for "the best of both worlds."  They would say, "well, we should look at what economic policies were in place during the 50's AS WELL AS eliminate the racist policies that plagued the day."  However, they don't.  They associate and thus imply that RACISM CAUSED THE ECONOMIC BOOM OF THE 1950's and therefore we cannot implement those policies.Let that sink in.I know leftists and socialists won't, but let that sink in your brain. The left (albeit naively, idiotically, and unconsciously) is claiming RACISM CAUSES ECONOMIC GROWTH.I don't need charts, data, or empirical evidence.  This is just HIGHLY FLAWED and INSANE logic. Racism is GOOD for the economy???  And that if we wanted to get the economy booming again we should implement RACIST policies???I know the left does not advocate such a thing, but their unchecked, emotionally driven "logic" does. Finally, what's worse is it shows just how little the left views minorities (albeit unconsciously).  For this argument to be true - that instituting the economic policies of the 50's would BY NECESSITY bring back "racism" - then minorities would have to have net negative economic NPV's.  ie - they would have to be economic sink holes. Not just that they would "produce nothing of value" but actually DESTROY economic value (on par with an estimated 2% GDP per year).  And the WHOLE REASON for the booming economy in the 1950's was because "whitey" was keeping blacks (and others) out of the economy, because if minorities were allowed in the economy (or treated as equals) then the economy would tank as if minorities were somehow "saboteurs."Those aren't my words.  Nor (admittedly) are they the conscious words of the left.  But, again, it IS their logic and what they are effectively implying.The truth is the "But the 50's Were Racist" argument is just another TIRESOME, REPEATED, and COWARDLY tactic of the left where they hide the failure of their economic policies behind an unrelated social issue.  They cannot debate their economic plan of socialism, wealth redistribution and parasitism oneconomic,logical, mathematical,historical, orempirical grounds,and thus must take the greatest decade in American economic history and villainize it by tainting it with "racism" (and of course "sexism" as men beat their wives THRICE DAILY and Don Draper banged every secretary in his office in the 50's).However, foolish as this argument is, there is a STEEP price to pay if Americans turn off their brains and fail to realize the non-sequitur in the left's argument.  In dismissing the 50's economic boom "because racism" we REFUSE to look at a point in all of human history where an economy was NEVER BETTER.  Poverty was decreasing at the fastest rate in human history FOR ALL PEOPLE.  Standards of living were increasing faster than ever.  And if we kept this economic miracle up, we would have had income per capita's of over $100,000 today.The keyThe answerThe solutionTo nearly all of our economic and financial problems lay in those decades of America's glory years sans, of course, the racism.Too bad nobody's courageous enough to study them, highlight them, or advocate bringing them back because a bunch of intellectually dishonest parasites calling themselves democrats might falsely accuse you of being a (GASP!) raaaaayyyyyyycccciiiiiisssss!And no country with an income per capita in the 6 figures is worth that risk, now is it? 
College as the Fourth Layer of Government 
I find sleep hard to come by.  To aid in this I do many things, one of which is listen to podcasts as I go to bed.  As long as they aren't terribly cerebral or detailed, they usually send me off to slumberland.  But while half awake and about to make the jump last night, it was Bernard Chapin's podcast that jilted me out of my slumber.  The reason why was because he started quoting an article about yet ANOTHER female college student complaining about some sort of injustice or another.I can't remember even precisely what it was, nor was I able to go back and find the article.  But I do remember my brain kicking in saying,"WTF?  ANOTHER college drama?  ANOTHER complaint filed about harassment or trigger warnings or what have you?  Why is this happening?  Why can't college students get their act together and just go to school?  Why all the made up drama?"And then it dawned on me.I learned over to the bed side table, grabbed my notepad, made a note, and though the brain juices were stirred, I managed to fall back to sleep.When I woke up this afternoon and looked at my notepad the note read "College is the 4 Layer of Government."  And I realized, despite being half awake, this epiphany was dead on.  For not only is it true, it also explains why we can't go one day without some sort of "news article" about some petulant little child filing some complaint in the world of Academia.Understand the current three layers of government exist for one logical reason or another.Federal handles all things national and international.  Defense, roads, trade policy, etc.States handle regional issues, roads, national guard, interstate commerce, etc.And local handles issues closest to home.  Schools, parking regulations, police, fire department, etc.And between these three layers of government the US people have ENOUGH (if not more than enough) governance to make sure society works.  However, whereas governments typical form out of a requirement by the people to either regulate, legislate, or provide a certain public service, additional layers of government may evolve simply because an organization has enough power or is put in an effective position of power over a large enough group of people.For example, most people really don't have the freedom of speech in the US.  The reason why is that employers act as a defacto 4th layer of government.You can't make politically incorrect posts on facebook.You can't participate in politics publicly, lest you be fired by Mozilla.What's your Twitter password? Pee in this cup.Were you out late last night?  You look tired at this morning's meeting.You can't date at work.And (my all time favorite "law" one of my employers told me) you can't teach dance class.And the reason employers can get away with this is because they have power over you in the form of employment.  You need their money to survive.However, a new and even more Orwellian fourth layer of government has formed and that is colleges or "Academia."  But whereas the power of employers come from the fact you need a job, Academia's power comes from the fact you need a degree to even get a job! (or so they say).  Ergo, entire futures of young people's careers are literally balanced in the hands (and whims) of the unelected officials of Academia.And who are these unelected officials?Professors, administrators, diversity officers, and other worthless academic bureaucrats who most certainly, if not entirely, hail from the left. This has resulted in a defacto tyrannical government forcing their own leftist, socialist, feminist, and anti-white anti-male ideology on the unfortunate and unsuspecting student-citizens of Academiaville.No longer can "Bill" just show up, get his degree in engineering and go on to work for Boeing.  No he needs "diversity training" before he can graduate.No longer can "Amy" just show up, get her degree in accounting, and go work for Peat Marwick.  No, she needs to have 20 credit hours in "Corporate Social Responsibility" before she gets her degree.And no longer can "Bob" just show up to class, flirt with "Jessica" (who he had the hots for on the first day of class) and nail her a month later after a couple dates.  No, Bob needs to worry NOT ABOUT THE COPS, but about how the City Council of Academiaville have revised the definition of the word "rape" to mean "regret."You combine this all together and you get nothing short of a propagandizing, tyrannical, leftist, Soviet, Orwellian nightmare.  And Mr. Chapin's recent podcast was just one example of the many instances of this hell young people must endure.The Duke lacrosse team was a perfect example where the fourth layer of government didn't care about police reports, facts, or justice.  They (frankly) hated white males and used their effective government power to punish them for, well, being white males.The fraternities of UVA were shut down by this fourth layer of government because Rolling Stone magazine wrote a story about a rape that was found out later to be false.  Again, facts, police reports, forensics, and reality be damned.  The leftist, feminist ideology of UVA's City Council was the effective law of the land there and they don't like fraternities.  Shut them down!How about Mattress girl at the Soviet Socialist Republic of Columbia University?  Again, a provably false rape accusation where the unelected officials of Columbia university made the life of Jean-Paul Nungesser not only hell, but made it very likely he'd never have a career.  It wasn't until Mr. Nungesser provided proof (in the form of texts) that the sex was consensual and that Mattress Girl (and Columbia University) was proven wrong.  (He is now suing Columbia University, good for him.)And how can we forget when they turn on their own?  Laura Kipnis, a feminist studies hack professor enjoyed the experience some lampreys enjoy when other lampreys attack their own.  After writing an article decrying the "sexual paranoia" she witnessed on college campuses two complaints were filed by (you guessed it) two lampreys feminist college students against her.  After circus court ordeal where college administrators wouldn't even tell her what the complaint was about, she was exonerated.But what makes the drama in college campuses today so frequent and "news worthy" (not to mention laughable) is not so much the Orwellian nature of leftist college administrators as much as it is their own success.  Through nearly three generations of leftist brainwashing in both K-12 and media, the (predominantly) aged, baby boomer leftists of the 60's who run Academiaville are now reaping what they sowed.  Thus, their problem students are not the "evil" "Straight Laced White Boy McGee" who comes in, wants to major in Actuarial Studies (who they desperately wanted to punish because of whitey-malelyness).  It's the professional victim-monsters they've created that are now the citizenry of their domain.  And they couldn't deserve these little self-created Frankenstein monsters more.19 year old spoiled brat children from the suburbs who have NEVER been held to a standard and have ALWAYS been told they were right filing complaints against professors.18 year old adult children who have NO real world experience, but have been brainwashed to believe because they champion the politically correct approved crusades and causes, they are "smart" and know better.And particularly delicious is the egomaniac hordes of young American female students who have been led to believe that not only are they great, but are automatically victims, constantly under assail and assault, because they have a vagina.  And that if things don't go their way, by god, they need to file a report and get people fired.The result is a circus that belies not only the true intent of these academian leftist ideologues, but shows us what a leftist utopia looks like and the ultimate insanity that would ensue.Trigger warnings"Safe rooms" False rape hysteria Worthless college graduates with worthless college degreesFinancial ignoramouses who VEHEMENTLY defend wasting $200,000 on said worthless degreesFat acceptanceTuition increases at 8x's the rate of inflation and 5x's the rate of wage increasesand ultimatelyan entire generation of adult children who are not only completely useless and valueless to the rest of society, but are LIABILITIES NOBODY will want to have anything to do with. The solution, of course, is two fold.One, you do not have to live in "Academiaville."  You can attend conservative colleges like Hillsdale which do NOT have the totalitarian, leftist insanity.  You can focus on your studies and side step all the leftist indoctrination that is falsely posing as your "pre-requisite" classes to ensure you're a "well rounded person."  Plus girls at Hillsdale will unlikely accuse you of rape if you kiss them on the cheek goodnight.Two, that internet is coming.  Already the IT industry (rightly) places more value on certifications and experience than it does that increasingly worthless piece of paper.  Additionally, with places like ASU offering accredited degrees online in conjunction with the likes of Khan's Academy and CourseX, the MOOQ's will be replacing college campuses for a fraction of the cost, and NONE of the insanity.  The only thing stopping it is getting American employers to realize it.And truth be told, the Ole Captain has a little trick up his sleeve that might just make that happen sooner than you think.But that is another story for another time. 
How Bernie Sanders Proves "Socialism" is No Longer a 4 Letter Word 
A position I've held since I took my first college level economics course was that the democrat party was not functionally a political part that advocated democracy.  It was, based on all measures, intents, and actions of its members a socialist party.  Of course, I was laughed at when I said the democrats were socialists because "socialism" and "socialist" were pejoratives we reserved for the evil Soviet empire and communism during the 80's.  However, there in my economics textbook, was statistics showing the government spending just shy of 35% GDP and the democrats were advocating for even MORE spending.  This, combined with my independent mind, convinced me of precisely what the democrat party was.The next twenty years passed by, and like Overton's Window, we've slowly, but surely moved more and more to the left.  Also during this time my friends who once mocked and ridiculed me as "Oh crazy Clarey!  You funny Republican you!" started having kids, jobs, and adult responsibilities.  And soon I wasn't that "one crazy republican at the party, bringing the buzz down," but a respected economist that even my most ardent detractors of days past had to agree with. So, as further proof that this country has moved to the left, and quite rapidly so allow me to point out a curious observation.  Bernie Sander's poll numbers.   As it stands right now Bernie is the front runner for the democratic presidential nomination.  Bernie as you know is an avowed socialist, replete with a lack of any real world private sector experience, 1960's hippie expertise, upper middle class upbringing, and an entire career as a soft-hands, work-free politician. However, what should be shocking to you is that a SOCIALIST, a person who advocates banishing private property, a person who wants to have the same economic system as the Soviets, Venezuela, Cuba, and Argentina, is so warmly welcomed by democrat voters.This shift, though shocking, was entirely predictable.  For while we were told and aware of the evils of socialism in the 1980's, nearly two new generations have since been brainwashed by the K-College government education system.  Thus why we've gone from:President Kennedy willing to go to war with the Soviets in 1962To Ronald Reagan breaking their backs in 1985.To Bill Clinton wetting the panties Gen X girls with his saxophone in 1992.To Barack Obama wetting the panties of Millennial girls (and boys) with his government checks and nationalized health care in 2008 and 2012.And now, so complete was this brainwashing of the younger generations, Bernie Sanders, an avowed socialist, is the front runner of the democrat party, even beating out Hillary Clinton, no rightist herself.The larger point is to point out and tip my hat to the democrat party and their various leftist organizations.  They have MASTERFULLY taken over the country's key institutions with the conscious and intended purpose of brainwashing America's youth to the point they are so naive and ignorant about history they have NO PROBLEMS voting for a socialist.  It is a PR stunt no different than getting two generations to vote for nazis (who actually have a lesser track record of murdering innocents than socialism). However, to all my friends who patted me on the head 20 years ago dismissing me as alarmist.  And to those of you who voted for Bill Clinton or even Obama in 2008 because you thought they were "cool," I just want to say "I told you so."Socialism is no longer a four letter word.Enjoy the decline. 
 










PHILOSOPHY












The Pathetic Conformity of Young "Rebels" 
Something I took for granted was the sworn rivalry between teachers and students.As a student I remember my teachers and I were sworn enemies.  It was never stated, but it was obvious through actions and behaviors, and as quickly as the first week of kindergarten, that teachers were not there to help the students, but to take advantage of them.  I do not mean in a "physical" or "sexually abusive" way, but in a financial and psychological way.  It was very apparent to me at the age of 5 that the teachers were not there to help us, they were there for ulterior motives, and me and my peers would be the victims in this racket.Obviously I could not articulate this at that time.  I didn't have the vocabulary, the thought, let alone the context.  But now in hindsight and knowing the racket education is, I can identify precisely what was going on.  Young adults, too lazy to find real work, used "educating the children" as an excuse to avoid math, rigor or any career endeavor that required effort.  And so, for 13 years, me and millions of other youth had to suffer at the hands of overpaid, overglorified, inferior-human, baby sitters, and though we couldn't articulate the argument above, we intuitively KNEW IT becuase of the day in, day out hell these morons forced upon us.  It was WAR.  And it was between the innocent students and the people posing as teachers (why else would "Ferris Bueller's Day Off" be so popular?).  Fast forward to today and times have definitely changed.  And changed for the worse.Instead of a Calvin and Hobbes-esque rivalry students have with teachers, they have something much worse.A BFF relationship.At least in the "olden days" we knew the teachers were the incompetent boobs sent there to baby sit us. It was clear they were incapable of teaching, let alone stimulating the minds of youth.  They disliked math, and we go to suffer for it.  So it was clear they were the enemy.But not today.Oh no. Teachers are the best friends of the students.  Why, they're all BFF!Are the teachers the enemy?No.Are the teachers arrogant 20 somethings showing cracks as they face the realities of not being intelligent or versed enough in any one subject to capture the minds and curiosity of the students so said students naturally behave?No.However, are the teachers spineless 20 somethings that keep the educational standards their typically low level, but now with the added benefits of "happy warm friendship, diversity, global warming, eh.. you all get B's and are winners fuzzies?"Yes.It is here a very sinister development has occurred. Instead of students having a natural and visceral hatred for their faux-teachers, teachers have developed the ability to befriend and cajole students.  Beforehand, teachers would just shove whatever political agenda they had on the students, all while spectacularly displaying they had no ability to teach or pass on knowledge, making school a hell.  This was not a recipe for compliance.  The rebellion was akin to Steve McQueen in the Great Escape (and I don't joke about that, me and my peers in grade school came up with some insanely crafty ways to rebel and deal with the mundane hell of school).  But today, I believe teachers know they know nothing and are not interesting.  And therefore they approach their students in a more ass-kissing way.The result in an interesting one. Unrebellious youth. In befriending, and not teaching, students, teachers have simply managed to make students "one of the leftists, educational establishment team."Did they learn calculus?No, but they did learn about global warming.Did they learn basic financial budgeting skills?No, but they did learn how much George Bush sucks.In other words, the students and teachers are no longer rivals, they're political allies.  And in being allies, there is no distrust.  And with no distrust there can be no rebellious youth.  They're pawns. They're compliant.  They're obedient. The irony, of course, is that this is the complete opposite of how they view themselves and how they've been taught to perceive themselves.  Most 20 somethings think they're "independent,"  "highly intelligent" and "very open minded."  When in reality they are nothing but the most conforming generation EVER in US history.They swallowed whole the the leftist BS shoved down their throats by their indoctrinators.They swallowed whole the socialist ideology shoved down their throats by their educators.The parrot and repeat what they were told to by their elders, displaying PERFECTLY they are the opposite of what they claim.I mean, just look at a hipster.  Somebody trying so hard not to conform they only end up epitomizing conformity. The said truth is that none of you youth are "rebels."  You are the most pathetic, sad, group of conforming saps the world has ever seen.  And if you don't believe it, compare yourselves to the second-most pathetic group of conformists - hippie baby boomers.You know how the baby boomers said, "don't trust anybody over 30?"You guys can't even follow THAT simple rule!  You eat up whatever older people tell you as long as it jives with what your childish brain wants to believe.  Meanwhile they're robbing your future blind with entitlement programs.  Not to mention does anybody see the irony of when administrators and professors of college campuses keep getting 8-12% raises each year, but their students are so brainwashed and conforming, the students blame it on republican legislatures for not spending enough on education?So to all you idiotic youth, 90% of which join the college democrats, 90% of you who simple repeat what your professors or teachers said, 90% of which think and do the exact same thing as the other 90%,you're not rebellious.you're not indepdenent mindedyou're not cool.You're a bunch of pathetic, ignorant, conforming suckers too stupid and too lazy to be genuine rebels.You want to see rebels?Look at the college republicans or college libertarians.But, oh wait, you can't.  Your teachers said they were racists, sexist, whatever.  And you mustn't disobey you teachers, now, mustn't you?  Why, that would not be conforming!  
The Destruction Principle 
In my Crusaderism video I mentioned the "destruction principle."  I didn't do it justice in that it was part of a larger presentation, but I believe it needs expanding and explaining here.When I was a kid my brother and I would set up snow forts and battle it out throwing snowballs at each other.  Of course, it was more than snowballs, it was more like snow cannon balls and ice chunks.  The key was not to kill each other, but to demolish each other's fort.  Direct hits would cause enough damage that we'd have to spend time repairing them instead of continuing our offensive.But then I got smart.I started building a tall snow tower off to the right of my fort.  It didn't take much to build and it was a smaller target.  Once built it attracted all the attention and attacks of my brother.  Sure he'd hit it occasionally, more often than not knocking it down, but the time it took to rebuild it was a fraction of what it would be to rebuild a direct hit to my fort.In short, I knew psychologically it would make a more attractive target even though it had no "military value."  The reason why?  Easy target, less work.The trick though was "production" or "value."Say my brother DID score a direct hit on the tower and brought it down.  The brain would release endorphins because he brought it down.  He would think it was progress, that he achieved some kind of value.  But he didn't.  He was just lazy.That is the destruction principle.  It is easier to destroy something that already exists than build something of genuine value up from scratch.This is key to understand the psychology Crusaders and Crusaderism because when given the choice of:"Work hard, study something rigorous, and put in the effort into a long and demanding career"or"Find something in society that already exists, villianize it and declare it evil, then wage a campaign against it"the lazy, mathophoic, work-fearing leftist crusader will ALWAYS go for destroying institutions and pillars over doing something that requires effort.And you must understand how arrogant and truly evil this is.  The crusader doesn't target these pillars or institutions of society because those institutions and pillars are evil.  They target those things because the crusaders are evil.  They are so arrogant and self-centered they have no problem bring down various aspects of society, regardless of:1.  whether or not society likes these pillars2.  whether or not society benefits from these pillars3.  the wishes of anybody else.The crusader's desire to engage in destruction disguised as heroic, crusading "faux-production" to simply give their meaningless lives meaning is paramount to all other people, all other lives and all other cultures.Take three genuinely evil people and see if I'm making this up or if my theory explains them.Dr. Grover Furr - This guy defends Stalin and claims the genocide that occurred under Soviet Russia never happened.  Does he really believe that?  No, probably not.  But it doesn't matter.  It's easier for him to tear down institutions like capitalism, western civilzation, etc., and then claim he's on some kind of "crusade" against the "evil United States."  In reality he is just a worthless human being.Robert Jensen - The nutjob "professor/journalist" (notice a trend here with worthless people and worthless degrees?) who claimed Thanksgiving was nothing more than a nazi, racist event forced on the poor Indians.  Again, does it dawn on him this was 400 years ago?  Does it dawn on him that most people (Indians included) hold Thanksgiving dear and is part of the American culture?  Of course, not, but that's not his goal.  His goal is to knock down the snow tower and make it seem like he's doing something.  So he falsely vilifies Thanksgiving, gets warm crusaderism fuzzies, and in the process belittles and condemns all you racists, sexist, nazi homophobes.  Again, a worthless human.Annie Laurie Gaylor (later part of the interview) - You may not know her, but she's one of these nutjobs out there riding around the country suing little towns and counties if they display crosses on cemeteries, public parks, or any other public property.  Does Annie Laurie Gaylor really believe for a second people in different towns are "oppressed" and "offended" by nativity scenes in the local park during Christmas?  No, you can hear it in her voice that she's lying and she can't cite anyone has complained.  But a more plausible theory is she is a worthless individual, too lazy and too incompetent to offer society anything of value.  Does it bear out?  You be the judge.  Worthless degree?  Worthless faux-accomplishments?  Worthless person?But again, none of that matters.  Annie's little ego is more important than the thousands of other people who she forces her little crusade upon, even though these people never did anything to her.The scary thing about the destruction principle is just how scary it is in predicting tyrants and dictators.  People who don't care about other people, who are so narcissistic they believe they are the only ones that matter and not only do other people not matter, but they should be forced to bide by the crusader's will.  Pol Pot, Mao Tse Tung, Osama Bin Laden you name it, all spoiled little brats with no real skill who deemed their precious little egos more valuable than the lives of millions.I didn't make the video of Crusaderism for S's and G's.  I made it as a weapon, a tool, and a warning.  We can identify these people.  We can identify the people who are going to destroy the country.  AND we can explain what they're doing and why.  This is not an argument to go and kill these people or anything as drastic like that, it's to expose them so when they say, "America is evil" or "capitalism is evil" or "hard work is evil" or any other outright lie they tell is identified as such and the public is made aware of what their ulterior motives really are.  To destroy the United States and western civilization because they refuse to be adults and work for a living.It is that simple. 
Nothing Left to Lose - The Last Ingredient 
In order to achieve your best you cannot have any other responsibilities except unto yourself.  What I mean by that is if you REALLY want to excel, you really want to push your mind and and body to the limit and see just what pure excellence you can achieve in this finite life you have, you cannot be working for somebody else, you cannot be beholden to somebody else, you cannot answer to somebody else.This is difficult because unless you are independently wealthy, you must answer to somebody else.  Namely, you need a job, you need food on the table, you need shelter over your head and so, one way or another, you have to play by other people's rules.Unfortunately, employers' goals are not your own.  Their goals are for their shareholders and owners (as it should be).  Therefore they WILL compensate you for your time, but you will not be working towards something you want in life.  You are merely entering into this agreement to sustain yourself, not advance yourself.What angers me though is when employers, or others, then think what you do in your free time is somehow their business and under their jurisdiction.  You write a blog, you are politically active, you moonlight or consult on the side, you pursue a hobby or second career.  And with the internet (especially for young people whose personal lives on pretty much ON the internet), it's pretty easy for employers to snoop into your personal lives.  What enrages me, however, is where they have the audacity to start claiming rights and control over your free time, holding your daytime job hostage so that you don't engage in behavior they disapprove of (even though it is your free life and your free time).I wanted to get a law passed in the legislature that would ban companies from disciplining or firing people for any activity outside of work that didn't directly threaten or undermine their employer.  But with the most recent elections I doubt anything that sensible would get passed at the state or national level.  Regardless, until such a law is passed, if you want to pursue true excellence in life, you need to risk it.  YOu need to put yourself and your dreams first, put your employer and their threats second, otherwise you will be the cubicle slave for the rest of your days.Fortunately, most of what you need is already there.  A lousy economy and lousy future employment prospects.  Stagnant economic growth and ensuing layoffs (most likely triggered by BOcare).  A stale and entrenched managerial class who have to continue to work because they so piss-poorly managed their retirements, thereby resulting in no advancement opportunities.  And a sclerotic and corrupt corporate sector, more focused on rent seeking and ass-kissing than they are efficiency, production, and profit.  All of which results in a poor proposition from modern day employers. There's just one ingredient left.You need to have nothing left to lose.Most of you have jobs.  Most of you have some assets.  Most of you have some money.  All of which would be threatened if you lost your job or irked the wrong person.  The problem is, unless you've succeeded and achieved whatever it is you wanted to, those meager possessions are just that - meager. They are not worth sacrificing your life and your dreams over.  Yes you may go hungry.  Yes you may lose your job.  Yes you may excommunicate yourself from any future job prospects, but what was the other choice?

Continue slaving away at a low-level job you could have done in the 6th grade?
Wake up everyday at 6AM to suffer a 2 hour round trip commute working on projects that numb and atrophy you mind and burn away your youth?
Suffer the inanities of office politics and the leadership of the Norman Dykes of Gen X and the Baby Boomers? 
Become just another ordinary nobody that will never amount to anything unique or significant?

Congratulations, you and another 300 million other Americans will go in the dust bin of history along with the rest of the 50 billion humans that have lived in the past, the majority of which also will be forever forgotten.  All because you couldn't risk losing your $40,000/year job with crappy benefits and overpriced health insurance.I know you all have to make money.  I know you all have to make ends meet.  Heck, I know you have social and professional circles you can't alienate by speaking bluntly and being politically incorrect.  And I know the prospect of being willing to forfeit all you have gained is intimidating.  But you have no idea of the freedom and just how much more opportunity presents itself when you truly have nothing left to lose.  There are no risks.  There are no consequences.  You can't lose anything and you're mind is finally free to do what it wants, say what it wants and think what it wants.  And a truly free mind will come up with a lot more profitable ideas than slaving away, conforming to the safe, but highly abusive and low-paying status quo.Sorry for my rant, just sat in a corporate cafeteria watching a bunch of cogs sit there with defeated looks on their faces.  The conversation I was eavesdropping on was some middle management putz questioning his subordinates on the most anal retentive details.  You could see it in his face he was a dictator and got his jollies off of having control.  His staff were scared and confused by his (purposely) confusing questions.  These people had at least 10 years on me and their lives are miserable, or at least 8 hours a day it is.  Just reminded me of how dysfunctional corporate America has become.  This, also contrasted against coming up on month 6 of surviving off of blog money without having to dip into reserves, makes the whole corporate cog life all that much more revolting. 
Disgusting 
Warning - this topic is an uncomfortable one, so if you are of soft skin I suggest not reading. At the Canadian Blogger Conference/Drinkfest my colleagues told me about a woman who was raped in Haiti, but blamed her rape on "white patriarchy."  I found it impossible to believe and incredulous.  A woman, no matter how warped her political beliefs, would not forgive the ultimate crime against a woman (rape).We couldn't find the article and they were adamant it did happen, but after another 4 hours of drinking the conversation left my mind.Until Aurini found it and e-mailed it to me.I know this happened 3 years ago and many people have probably already read it.  However, since it has been whitewashed from the internet, not nearly enough people know about this.  Furthermore, it is important to bring up again, because it highlights just what a threat socialism, leftism and liberal is not just to the individual, but society.First, let me state that leftism IS a mental disorder, cognitive dissonance being the slightest of the symptoms.  For a brain to ignore reality and create rationalization and excuses so it can hold onto its flawed political ideology parallel to reality is dysfunctional.  But if it gets to the point a person puts their political ideology ahead of their own personal sovereignty and well-being, then that is full out psychotic.  Sadly, however, you see this happening all the time.  Ignorant youth voting for "Obama" only to have him further endebt them.  Women disproportionately voting for socialism even though it ruins their lives, etc.  But to get to the point you are sexually violated and STILL stand up for your ideology (in this case, a sexist "anti-white" "anti-male" incredibly extreme version of leftism), leaves me speechless and is only more proof such ideological zealotry is not only psychotic, but self-destructive.Second, realize why leftists (typically, though not always) tend to be the ones putting their ideology ahead of their own self-interests - they have nothing else to live for.  They have no real value.  If there is a reason to buy "Enjoy the Decline" it is because of the chapter "Revenge" where I go into detail as to just what sad and pathetic lives most liberals and leftists live.  Look at your average leftists.  What defines most of them is their fear of effort, rigor, challenge, and work.  They are lazy.  They don't want to try and they (ironically) spend more calories of energy trying to make things "fair" in life than they would have, had they tried.  Ergo, they major in worthless degrees, pursue easy make-work careers, and really achieve nothing of value in their lives. They are worthless human beings.  But dare anybody hold them up to standards of production and the real world, they vehemently get violent, emotional, and accuse their accusers of false crimes (racism, sexism, bigotry, etc. etc.)Amanda Kijera (the woman who blames her rape on people like me - white male) fits this bill perfectly, not out of coincidence, but because this is a law.  She is a "civic journalist and activist" (I could not find her biography page).  Not only is she contradictory (journalists should not be activists, they should be unbiased and be part of no activism group), she immediately confesses to the world she doesn't wish to try via her chosen "profession" and goes on some crusade to mask her ineptitude.  But when the reality (in the horrific form of rape) confronts her ideology, she sacrifices herself so that her ideology may remain in tact.The reason why is deep down inside she knows she, herself, has no value.  And without her ideology she is nothing.  Thus, the disgusting result of tolerating rape and blaming anybody but the rapist.Third, and worst of all for the rest of us, when the individual is so meaningless, worthless, and pathetic, it bodes ill for the rest of society.  Namely, it allows for a tyrannical state to take over.  For if the individual has no meaning, then it will search for it in some form of a "false god."  Some become "born again Christians," others join cults, but in a democracy well on its way on The Road of Serfdom an ever increasing state is more than happy to provide these weak minds with their false god.  Educational systems are primarily there for indoctrination, making children believe "going green" and "sharing" trump individualism and success.  Colleges and universities are there to provide "adult" minds the reason and rationale for taking other people's money.  And the media and government are only too happy to make people focus on bread and circuses, as they slowly erode the individual behind closed doors.  If there is a threat the Amanda Kijera's of the world pose to liberty and western civilization it is that they are so inferior in terms of accomplishment compared to their liberty-loving counterparts (and they loathe this fact so much), they are committed to the point of being raped to make everybody else equally worthless and miserable as them.  They are so selfish they have no problems torpedoing the world's greatest society to maintain their petty cognitive dissonance.  In the end the reason you have a disgust in your stomach over a woman who was raped and then essentially blames you for it, isn't because of the false accusation.  It's because of the fear that socialism can be so convincing of weak minds that it turns them into, mindless, selfless, ideological suicide bombers.  
The Shaming of John Galt 
To be "left" or be a "lefitist" is to live a lie.You believe other people should pay for your stuff.  You believe by the fact you were born you are entitled to certain things.  And more recently you are brought up to have such an inflated ego of yourself, you expect other humans to act against their own best interests.For example, men don't like fat chicks.The fact that that statement right now is getting "Ooo!  You shouldn't have said that!  That's not nice!" kind of reaction only proves my point.Is it true?Yes.Is it politically incorrect?Doesn't matter, it's true.  The truth should render its political correctness moot.  The problem is society, driven primarily by the left, has made it taboo to speak simple truths such as "men don't like fat chicks."Regardless, however, look at to what extents and lengths leftists (in this case, ugly feminists) go to ignore this reality AND force their unreality (where presumably we're supposed to like fat chicks) on other people.  Not only are feminists pushing "fat acceptance programs," there is no end to the lecturing and ridiculing of men who dare to speak this simple truth.  You are shallow, you are hollow, you are sick and wrong for liking skinny girls with long legs.  Misogynist! Another example, wealth.  Say you're born into wealth or you earn your own wealth.Thisisagoodthing.With wealth you have economic security, financial security, health, and a more enjoyable life.  EVERYBODY should aspire to be wealthy.  It's so commonsensical it needs no defense.But again, look at to the lengths and extents the left goes to criminalize wealth.  You're greedy, you benefited unfairly, you oppressed people, blah blah blah.Ultimately all the efforts and propaganda that goes into villainzing what is only human nature can fall under one single category or "weapon" of the left.Shame.The left uses shame and "shaming language" for one reason and one reason only - they are factually wrong, so they must "shame" what is "right" or what is real.  Since the left lives in a world that is not based in reality or the reality principle, they have to "change reality" and the best way to do that is to convince or outright brainwash people into thinking the opposite of what is true and the opposite of what is in their best interests.Therefore men, no matter what their genetic programming, should like an obese sow for her personality, her triple masters in social work, and here 14 cats.Rich people should just forfeit their money because money and wealth is (somehow) "bad" or they are somehow "greedy."And no matter how utterly craptatstic a child's performance is in school or sports, "B+'s for everyone" and "participation trophies for all!"  There are no losers, only winners!But there is another sort of shame coming over the horizon and I already predicted it.  Matter of fact I didn't think it would strike so early, but then again I tend to be a lightning rod for the left.  The new shame the left WILL BE aggressively pursuing in the near future is shaming people who "go Galt."I was sitting at my local neighborhood bar.  The bartender and I were talking and he knew I just published my new book "Enjoy the Decline" 2 days previous.  He was asking how sales were and I said great.  A couple stools down was a woman.  She asked what it was about.  I hesitated to answer because I didn't want a political discussion, I just wanted to enjoy my coffee.  So I said,"It's about how to lead a minimalist lifestyle, make as little as possible, work as little as possible, pay as little in taxes as possible, and enjoy life."She overhead the title and then asked, "Well why enjoy the DECLINE?"  Are we declining?"I said, "yes.""Why?"It was here I realized there was no avoiding it."Because of all the debt we've racked up as a nation and all the taxes we're going to have to pay.  There's no reason to work hard any more when it's just going to be taxed away."I could tell I irked her, she either didn't believe there was a debt problem or just didn't like my republican sounding tone."So your solution is to work as little as possible?""Yep."And then came the shaming language,"So you think that will solve the country's problems?  Doing nothing?  Don't you think you owe society something?  Didn't people pay for your schooling?  What kind of adult blah blah blah..."She went on, but I didn't care start a political debate.  Besides, I knew where it would go.  More illogical shaming as to why I should prostitute myself out to pay for other people's stuff.  "Advice" from a fully indoctrinated and hopelessly unrecoverable middle aged woman about how I should somehow forfeit a higher percentage of my finite and dwindling life paying for other people's crap.  Her age, her status, and her experience were irrelevant.  Her logic was hopelessly corrupted and no amount of reasoning or explanation would pierce the brainwashing she received in grad school or from watching Oprah. The larger point is that more of this is coming.  As the "enlightened electorate" decides to ignore reality and go down the path of socialism they will once again face the annoying reality that it is against human nature to pay for other people's stuff.  And since it is their stuff that is threatened, they will have to go into overdrive to "shame" people for not wanting to become slaves.  Like the ramblings of the middle aged woman, it will not be sensical, it will not be logical, and it will theme on people who decide to work less and "go Galt" as being greedy or selfish.  It will be amorphous and intangible, assuming you somehow have a societal obligation to the country and "community" to work harder for the "larger good."  That there is something more important than the individual and only the most selfish and evil of people refuse to acknowledge the superiority of this commune.  It will also parallel (akin to feminist shaming language) is that you are not a "real man" or you are not "manning up" and owning up to your responsibilities you have to society.  In reality it is nothing more than shaming language and lies to get you to operate against your best interests.I'd like to say most people have the intellectual capacity and independence to identify such BS or at least stand up to it.  Alas, the fact some many adult-children swallowed whole the global warming BS and now pursue "going green" as a religion (while mocking Christianity at the same time) only confirms a majority of them will actually believe they owe it to society to slave away for other people.  Just promise me a favor.  When the middle aged woman who's hopelessly brainwashed starts to lecture you for daring to only work 4 hours a day, do not be a fool and fall for it.  Shamelessly Enjoy the Decline instead.  
The Liberal Zombie Apocalypse 
I do not mean to reference the movie "I Am Legend" so frequently, but there were two instances in the movie that I found applicable to what I was writing about.  The first was when he had to kill his dog (and is referenced in "Enjoy the Decline") and the second is this.The reason for the second reference is that I like how the zombies are completely feral and lacking reason, logic or thought.  If I recall the movie correctly, Will Smith's character does develop a cure that would cure all the zombies and turn them back into humans, he even tries reasoning with them, but their brains are too far gone to even comprehend what he's saying.  They just want to kill him, even though he's their only hope.What's funny (sad actually) is just how exactly a zombie's brain parallels that of a liberal.The time is coming where the promises made by liberals, but paid for by the labor of others, will be broken.  The economy is already slowing and it is my prediction this trend will continue.  It may accelerate, it may slow, heck we may even grow again, but the overall trend I believe will be the trend it's been since the 1960's - declining growth.  At some point it will reach a "critical point" where no matter what leftists politicians promised their parasitic constituents, there plain won't be the money or production to honor those commitments.  This is already happening on a micro level.  Detroit is a nice municipal example and the various instances of pensions paying out only a fraction of what they promise their government employees is another.  But there will come a point where social security, medicare, medicaid, welfare, WIC, you name it, is not only going to not deliver what it promised, but SIGNIFICANTLY less.  It is only because of the benevolence (of naivety) of creditors such as the Chinese this hasn't happened already. Regardless, when this point in time comes you can expect the same amount of reason and rationality from enraged liberals, leftists, and parasites.  And it's for several reasons.First, understand how weak a mind has to be in order to swallow whole the leftist ideology.  Yes, I know it's force-fed to kids in the schools, but I'm talking on a biological level.  I remember a healthy amount of disrespect and suspicion for my teachers as a child.  I didn't just believe what they said because "they were the teacher."  Many of my classmates also had this healthy distrust.  Turns out we were the smarter cadre of students in my class and I believe on a genetic level had an intelligence high enough to have some kind of immunity against brainwashing.  So I do believe right off the bat you are dealing with brains that are genetically predisposed AGAINST independent thought and intellectual honesty.Second, of course the brainwashing.  After 13 years of K-12 education, and an additional 4-8 in college, your average 20 something is so hopelessly and purposely misinformed their entire construct or mental framework for their political ideology is not only erroneous, but so complete and so rooted in their mentality any outside attempts to introduce empirical evidence, logic, or reason is futile.  It isn't until they live LITERALLY 20 more years and the real world just plain kicks the crap out of their ideology with anecdotal experience and evidence that they even ENTERTAIN they might be wrong.  Some, like spinsters/feminists/catwomen, carry their ideology to their grave with an unenviable legacy.Third, though this can't be said of all liberals, it can be said of (I'd estimate) 85% of them - most of them have a HUGE emotional attachment to their ideology.  The reason is simple.What precise accomplishments and achievements in life can the average leftist point to that gives their live meaning and worth?The answer is  - "nothing."Your average leftist isn't curing cancer, building empires, starting an accounting career, or developing a trade.  They're "raising awareness" or "engaging communities" or "helping the children" or leading some bullshit crusade.  Whatever euphemistic titles and jargon they use to describe their "careers," in the end they're just masking the fact they're literally doing nothing with their lives.  ie-their lives are worthless and thus they are worthless people.Since deep down inside they know they are worthless and their lives have no meaning, they put "leftism/socialism/communism" at the core of their being.  As Rush Limbaugh says, "being a liberal is the easiest thing" in that you just have to "claim" you care and vote to use OTHER PEOPLE'S MONEY to finance your compassion.  Ergo, if you ever GENUINELY, INTELLIGENTLY, LOGICALLY and DISPASSIONATELY constructively criticize of question a liberal's ideology they get emotional, enraged and angry (I remember the only people who cried on my radio show were liberals).  This isn't because they really care about the poor children in Africa.  It's because you are shining light on the fact they are a worthless person who does nothing, has done nothing, will continue to do nothing, and thus waste their lives.  The final result of such thorough brainwashing, insecurity, laziness, and a predisposition to naivety, results in a veritable zombie impervious to reason, logic and rationale.  No matter the preponderance of evidence, they simply ignore reality and retreat to their circularly referenced and supported ideology, blame the rich, blame conspiracies and (presumably to their deaths) blame "Bush."  You no doubt have ran into this where you can cite data on the internet from a reputable source, PROVING a leftist is wrong, but they (like the dismembered knight in Monty Python's Search for the Holy Grail) will never admit defeat and continue to subscribe to their now-false beliefs. But it gets much worse than that. Since you (and reality) are attacking the only thing that gives them value (their ideology) they will get angry.  Worse still, once our creditors no longer renew our line of credit, the tab for their socialist hokey pokey will come due, and we won't be able to pay.  This will result in REAL cuts to social spending which will then threaten their livelihoods as a disproportionate percent of leftists are parasitic and dependent on other people.The end result is a real zombie movie.  A post-apocalyptic economy where food, clothing and shelter are no longer being produced in quantities needed, and masses of angry, feral, irrational leftists whose pride (and shame) in their ideology prevent them from being negotiated with or reasoned with to rebuild society.  In short, I truly believe leftists are so committed to their ideology that if the economy can no longer produce the basic necessities they would resort to violence, murder, theft and mayhem if necessary.  This is of course very pessimistic of me, and a sad statement of a lack of faith in my fellow man, but if you look at how leftists don't even care about their own lives, to the point they'd ruin it by putting their ideology first and themselves second, you can't expect them to be open-minded during the coming Liberal Zombie Apocalypse.   
The Return of Shame 
Law, at its best, prevents people from doing bad things.  And that's at its best.A lot of times people just don't obey laws (criminals) and even when they do obey laws, they may not be moral.  In other words laws prohibit bad behavior, but can not compel good or moral behavior.  So while I may not murder somebody, law doesn't prevent me from racking up more credit card debt than I can afford or standing somebody up for a date.However, society did have a tool that picked up where laws left off - shame.Though not codified or written down, society had their own set of unspoken rules or laws called "standards" and if you violated these social standards you would be shamed and scorned.  This shame would compel you to behave appropriately and was a vital and necessary component of society in order for it to survive and succeed.However, shame is very interesting in that it's very much like "paying taxes" or "having to work for a living."  It's a fact of life nobody likes.  You step out of line you may not go to jail, but you will be shamed by society.  Therefore, you don't get to do whatever you want to do all willy nilly.  However, also like paying taxes and having to work for a living, shame can be used as a political tool.  Specifically, when it comes to a democracy, an amoral political party can ignore the importance shame plays in society, capitalize on childish-mentalities of the lesser members of the electorate, and promise a world with no shame.You don't want to work?  Fine!  We'll tax other undeserving people to finance your life.You don't want to pay taxes?  Fine!  We'll make a villainized group pay them for you!You don't want shame?  Fine!  We'll launch an all out assault on traditional historical standards, the country's historical culture, and institute moral relativism.In short, promising the electorate the elimination of shame is nothing more than bribing them.  However unlike welfare, medicare or EBT cards, it's a psychological benefit, not a financial one.  And thus, just as sure as leftist parties across the world promise their voters other people's money, they also do their best to eliminate shame.We see this everyday.  The idiot who couldn't do basic math and bought a house he couldn't afford is a "victim."  The unemployed Music Therapy major, living at home is "just down on his luck."  And there is no better example of the elimination of shame as we replace military veterans with "single moms" as our nation's greatest hero. So successful is the left that the political and social environment is now so hostile that it's now "shameful to shame."  If you dare criticize somebody for failing to meet a standard you are the one that is shamed.  You are accused of being rude.  Your target of shaming is even arrogant and entitled, yelling "HOW DARE YOU JUDGE ME!!!"  And if your target of shame happens to be in a "victim class" you are immediately called an "ist" (even though you are criticizing their actions and not their race, ethnicity, sex, etc. etc.).Additionally, since shaming by its nature is a public or publicized action (i.e. - you can't secretly shame someone) you are immediately alienated and ostracized from society.  Dare you demand EBT cards be the size of a poster for all to see on a blog or a forum, employers will no longer hire you.  Dare you criticize illegal immigration and are consequently accused of racism, you cannot run for public office.  And dare you criticize single parenthood, you can forget finding a date.  In short we have fully eliminated shaming from society and all the benefits (personal responsibility being the key one) that came with it.Naturally, a shameless society will fail.  You can make all the laws you want, but without the social norms and mores that force people to be self-reliant, responsible, and respectful units of society, those individual units will revert to their basic human instinct and decay into shameless and parasitical ones.  However, there is a consequence to society failing.  Specifically, those people who are vested in society and are moral, are going to lose the only thing that matters to them - society.  And while a high percentage of them may still be too intimidated or brainwashed to speak out, bluntly and truthfully, a certain percentage of people will realize the cost is too great and start shaming again.  Specifically, those people who have nothing left to lose.Understand that the reason most people don't speak out against and shame the social atrocities occurring in the US is because they have too much at risk.  They have a house, they have a family, they have a career. Their entire lives have been built within this system and are thus dependent on it.  And dare they get out of line, and dare they publicly shame the wrong group, the political and social cost for them daring to point out the emperor has no clothes is that they will lose it all.  An HR nazi will be auditing your facebook posts.  Your hiring manager will get a complaint.  An Adria Richards will narc on you.  Careers in America are so fragile and employers so spineless, you dare don't rock the societal boat with shaming.  You watch that recent immigrant use her EBT card at your expense and you shut up and like it.But what if you're part of a group with nothing left to lose?  What if you're young, endebted by previous generations to the tune of $225,000, facing a lousy job market, and no future?  What if you're part of a group that is just assumed to have benefits and privileges when that is not the case, and you're constantly accused of bigotry and being part of a "patriarchy?"  Oh, and by the way, what if a mental illness has infected the half of society you SHOULD have gotten the greatest joy out of in life and instead corrupted and spoiled them leaving you little-to-no shot in life at marriage of family?  What if your future was just plain taken away?Why you'd be the typical young man in America today.And it is here where shame is not only going to have a triumphant return, but it is already back in full force.  I hate to inform all the various political groups, victim groups, protected classes, sacrosanct faux heroes and other shameless classes the left has formed, but your strategy to "shame the shamers" won't work on this group of people.  And the reason why is that your strategy hinges on one thing - that there would be an economic cost inflicted on anybody who dares to shame.  But if they have no money, no job, no career, no hope, and no future, there's nothing you can take from them.  Worst still, as they slowly start to wake up and realize just how much your anti-shaming campaign has screwed up society, they will blame you  (rightly so) for stealing and destroying their futures.  And with nothing left to do and at no cost to them, shaming you and your ideological adherents is going to become their favorite hobby.  
Character Trumps Diversity 
If you ask two men (or women) to describe themselves, the lesser of the two will cite their religion or ideology rather than their profession.  i.e.- the superior of the two will say,"I'm a plumber"or"I'm a surgeon"or"I'm a stay at home wife."while the inferior of the two will say,"I'm Christian" or"I'm a liberal"or"I'm a vegan."The reason why one is superior to the other is that in order to be a "plumber" or a "surgeon" or a "stay at home mother" means you must do something or achieve something.  Being "Christian" or declaring yourself a "vegan" simply takes a declaration and nothing more (please do not flood me with e-mails about catechism).  And though it may seem to be a very subtle difference, it is something I immediately pick up on when meeting people for the first time.  For nearly 100% of the time when somebody defines themselves by their belief system or ideology and NOT their profession that person proves to be somebody I not only dislike, but do not trust. The reason why is that when somebody substitutes a belief, religion or an ideology for achievement, it is an (admittedly) unconscious admission of laziness and proof of a weak, or total absence of, character.  A person who defines themselves by merely joining a group or espousing beliefs lacks the rigor, determination, work effort and temerity to do something productive and meaningful in their lives.  However, their ego is such that it cannot stand having no prestige or respect and thus they join a "club."  Ergo why I truly believe the VAST majority of religious participants do not participate in religion for something as noble as god, as much as it is first and foremost for themselves.However, religion aside, there is another variant of this intellectual hypocrisy and that is "diversity." Let us be clear what diversity is - it is nothing more than a political tool of the left.  It works by irrationally and undeservingly applying value to traits that a person was born with, and thus, had nothing to do with. For example, say you were born the "Triple Crown" of affirmative action - black, female, and homosexual.You are a veritable celebrity in leftist circles.  You are fawned over, placated, kowtowed to and told how oppressed you are.  You are also told how great you are just by the fact you have the traits of being:1.  Black2.  Female3.  Homosexualand still manage to live, "courageously" in the face of evil white privilege, male, patriarchy blah blah blah.But what did you achieve?The answer is nothing.  You just happened to be born with the traits of being black, female and homosexual. THESE ARE TRAITS, NOT ACHIEVEMENTS.  Traits you HAD NOTHING TO DO WITH AND NO CONTROL OVER.Of course this isn't to say that a black woman who happens to be homosexual does not have character.  If she is a surgeon and you say, "describe yourself" and she says, "I'm a surgeon and an avid cyclist," she is placing value on her achievements and hobbies, not her ethnicity, gender and sexual preference, none of which she did anything to attain.  Unfortunately, though, the appeal of "diversity" and applying value where there is none proves too tempting to many.  One only has to look at the sea of worthless degrees and worthless college departments in "Hyphenated-American Studies.""Women's Studies""Gender Studies""African American Studies""Chicano American Studies"and the list goes on and on and on.  Here the political tool of diversity is particularly deceitful, evil and outright bigoted.  It lies to various groups of people telling them traits they were born with somehow give them value.  It lies to those same groups of people telling them because of these traits, they are oppressed by those who do not share their traits.  It ruins the lives of these innocent people saying the ONLY way they can overcome these injustices is through the government via Democrat/Socialist/Lefitst parties (of whichever country they're in).  And worst of all, it deprives these individuals of any real individualistic achievement by brainwashing them into an crippling coma-like state of "Woe-Is-Me-ism."  In short the irony of these programs is that they claim to help these individuals, but merely serve to ruin their lives by making them veritable slaves to a political party.  I often wonder how long it's going to be before the black community wakes up and realizes that despite 40 years of affirmative action and democrat bribery their communities are in tatters and they are still in last place sociologically speaking in the US.  I often wondering how long it's going to be before the Latino and Hispanic communities wake up and realize they're voting to turn the US into a more northern and colder version of the crappy countries they or their ancestors fled.  And I wonder how long it's going to be before women realize feminism has done nothing more than enslaved them to the rat race, replaced their would-be-husbands with a government check, and destroyed any hope for true love and happiness via a normally functioning family. Again, I don't care. I've checked out.  It's just a sad crying shame nobody is heeding the words of Martin Luther King, especially those he worked so hard to help.  
Inducing Shock In The Matriarchy 
I did a seminar recently at the U of MN Duluth.  It was my "Why Gen Y is Completely, Totally and Hopelessly Screwed" seminar.  And while admittedly the seminar is not the politest or most adroit speech, when it came to the "What were you told you SHOULD like in the opposite sex" portion of the lecture, an interesting thing happened.  I asked the young men in the audience what they found attractive in a woman.  Not what they were told to like, but what they in fact did like.Not one of them answered.OH, they KNEW the answers, their sheepish faces and smirks gave that away, but they couldn't answer for they feared what the repercussions would be.Observing this phenomeon right in front of me, I took the opportunity to point out something so sad, but so very true.  I said "My god, look at how brainwashed they have you guys.  You can't even speak the truth."I then bellowed out the truth,"Ladies, we like big boobs, long legs, and tight asses!"If I read the room right it was almost as if they were saying, "Wow!  He said it!"Now, instigation aside, the reason I bring this up is because it highlights a very important aspect of this whole battle against feminism.  And that is just how successful the left and feminists have been at outlawing independent thought and replacing it with their own politically approved thought.  So intimidated are men and women they cannot speak bluntly and truthfully about the opposite sex.Of course I view the truth as an absolute.  Something that cannot be ignored. Something that is arguably the epitome of morality to adhere to.  But if I were to say,"The law of gravity states that mass will attract other mass"there is no repercussions for speaking this truth.But if I point out a truth that runs contrary to the approved speech code or the goals of leftism and feminism, no matter how true:"Men like big boobs, long legs, long hair and tight asses!"then all manner of social, political and romantic hell will be unleashed.Of course it should never have gotten to this point.  The point you cannot candidly and bluntly speak truths.  But it did and the way we got here was via Overton's Window, the political theory where you slowly move the political debate further and further in one direction, but so slowly nobody notices it.  40 years ago you could scoff at the idea of lowering standards for women in protective services, now that's sexist.  40 years ago you could point out women are poorer at math (duly noted that the bell distribution curve is flatter) and logic.  You are once again a sexist.  And 40 years ago you could make jokes about women drivers.  Now, even though they get in more accidents per miles driven, you are once again, a sexist.However, while the original 70's feminists may have known full well what they were doing, and today may feign umbrage dare you speak a truth about the sexes, the successive generations of feminists and young women have not had that vantage point.  Quite the opposite, actually. They've been brought up in a completely female-centric and myopic environment, and have grown accustomed to having society bend over backwards to avoid speaking the uncomfortable truths about the sexes.  So much so that when a truth like"Men like big boobs, long legs, long hair, and tight asses"is uttered they are not just insulted, but enraged."HOW DARE somebody say that!?""Yeah, but it's true!""STILL!!!!  HOW DARE HE SAY THAT!"It's this violent (or at least strong) reaction in combination with social, political, romantic AND CAREER costs/threats that is what keeps most men (and women) from speaking truthfully about feminism.  But there is a problem with this strategy.  Overton's Window can only be moved so far in one direction before it is so divergent from reality and truth that society starts to crack and there are real and severe social, economic and financial costs.  And we are at that threshold now.  And not only are we bearing the costs (unemployment, government debt, dysfunctional children, etc.) those costs outweigh the costs for pointing out the emperor has no clothes, especially for young men.Understand if you take the average young man today and look at his prospects in terms ofSocialPoliticalRomanticand Career (otherwise "Economic")in this society, what precisely does he have?Socially speaking he already has friends and this one, though important, aspect of his life is inoculated against the forces of leftism and feminism.Politically, nothing.  All political emphasis is on women and women's problems.  Government spending disproportiontely goes to women and women are still considered a victim class.Romantically, the average western male has a lousy selection in women as women were brought up to be men, not women.  And any woman who dares to say, "Yes, I'd like to have children and a family some day, and I like men and I want to be beautiful" is immediately shamed by feminists and the left. Economically,  your average young man has no hope and no chance at a successful financial life.  THe economy is stagnant, unemployment is disproportionately high for young males and the economy, forever more being progressively dictated by the public sector, is becoming hostile to traditional male-employing industries.In short, your average young man has nothing, meaning society is no longer able to provide for and support one half of the society.  And with nothing left to lose, there are no costs, for speaking the truth.  With no hope, no future, and no money, all the shaming, threats, and NARCing of feminism rings hallow as they no longer have any teeth.  There is nothing you can take from these men.It is here that the movement back to reality will not be as slow and meditated as the feminists' original nudging of Overton's Window.  It will be lightning speed compared to the past 4 decades.  Men (and women) will shed the annoying, if not, impossible-to-adhere-to political correctness about the sexes and will realize life is too short to keep up the charade.  Men will realize their sanity and love lives are more important than keep eggshell-fragile feminists' feelings in tact.  Men, who never had anything to begin with, will wonder why their fathers and grandfathers adhere to "obsolete feminist morals" and instead will see no cost or consequence in being men, and will instead lay down the law in their relationships and be the man.  Women too will be sick of being shamed about "wanting to have a husband and children" and will find nothing wrong with wanting a family, let alone wearing dresses and wanting to be beautiful. The problem for feminism will be the abruptness of it all.  Already you can see this in feminist responses to Manosphere posts, not to mention the shock and awe that their Patron Saint Adria Richards was actually fired.  They cannot believe (since they are inured in the brainwashing that they are the victim and the "patriarchy" is oppressing them) men, let alone ANY man would say such things or do such things.  Didn't they get the memo?  Didn't they get the brainwashing in school?  We were told that was very very BAD and MEAN to say those things in the 3rd grade no matter how truthful it may be.  The shock on their internet-metaphorical faces is priceless.The problem for them is that reality is reality.  Truth is truth.  And when there's no cost or consequence for speaking the truth, they're going to find out just how flawed and erroneous their much-coveted religion of feminism really is.  And no amount of angry, screeching or accusations of misogyny is going to stop it. 
The Enslavement and Imprisonment of Western Children 
Once again, for the cheap seats, I will make my claim that I do not hate children.  Matter of fact I will go so far to say I probably like children more than the average American or western parent in the fact I've actually taken the time to assess whether I would even make for a good father before fornicating and bringing innocent little souls into this world only to suffer under my poor and reluctant parenting.  I will even go further and claim that unlike most adults today, I have not forgotten what it was like to be a child and therefore empathize with them.However, in being an adult I have the added benefit of hindsight and a birds-eye view.  I can look back with adult eyes and assess, analyze and view kids today as well as look at my adult peers and see how they interact with children.  And the unfortunately I've concluded our (adults') relationship with today's children is not so much of one of love, kindness and discipline, but rather one of convenience, advantage and slavery.We literally enslave and imprison our children for our benefit.For example, take religion.I don't think I ever ran into one religious adult, yesteryear or today, who uses religion as an optional tool to instill virtue, morality, and discipline in a child.  A tool of which can be discarded or kept at the child's discretion when that child reaches an age of which they can determine their own religious beliefs. Instead, the majority of instances the child is used as an asset for the religion.  A borderline annuity of future collection plate donations, that is brainwashed before it is even cognizant or sentient, and then guilt-tripped into further compliance with the threat of eternal damnation and excommunication from the church.  And before you start making accusations of cynicism, ask yourself this question - have you ever seen or forced your own kid to participate in the Christmas service at church?  Forcing them to memorize hymns they don't understand and play the manger scene?Was that for their benefit, god's benefit, or yours?That's what I thought.If religion doesn't convince you, just look at how we treat "having children" today.  While, yes, I will admit, there are many loving parents who truly love their children and have them for all the right reasons, sadly they account for the minority.  This is evidenced by the percent of parents who actually bring up their own children versus outsourcing it to a third party.  Be you ghetto/trailer trash, getting knocked up in your teen years and outsourcing the upbringing of your child to the state or you be uppity higher class folk who pay a nanny to take away the inconvenience of raising your own child so you can pursue your own career raise your child, let us be very clear what you are stating with your actions.  You view your child as a physical asset.  A thing to "have.  A cute little toy that you do not credit with having its own personality, intelligence, consciousness or soul.  It is no different than a luxury SUV or an accidental consequence for fornicating without protection.  Regardless of whether you are using it as a social status object or a reason to collect more in WIC/welfare, it is clear once again the child is there to serve you.  It is a slave, it is a prisoner.Finally, if none of that convinces you (or perhaps none of it applies to you), just because the parents may not be unconsciously enslaving their children, doesn't mean the rest of society isn't.  Namely the education industry.If there is an example of how we abuse, enslave, and take advantage of our children, the United States' (and most other western nations') educational system is it.  From the age of 5, we have our country's WORST people act like they're educating them, when in reality they are doing far worse.At best they are baby sitting the tykes (thankfully taking those crying, liability-brats much-loved-children off of our hands, which is why very few parents ever complain).  But worse they are typically (though not always) our most incompetent and lazy citizens looking for an easy "career."  Too lazy to learn a skill or a trade, millions of worthless and lazy people declare "education" as a major not because they nobly care about the children, but like the idea of 3 months off, avoiding math at all costs, and being practically unfireable.  But the absolute worst is the brainwashing that occurs by these despicable people.  Indifferent about providing a genuine education to these children and preparing them for the real world, members of the education industry are first and foremost interested in brainwashing the little tykes into voting for future socialist causes, namely, more money for education, thereby guaranteeing their own financial futures.However, the slavery is not merely relegated to K-12.  Not by a long shot.  There's still blood in those bodies that need to be sucked out and by god, we're going to get every drop.First, you have every leftist, educator and teacher union thug pushing for the expansion of "pre-K-12" and "early childhood development.  Such efforts have already manifested themselves in the form of "Head Start" and the multitude of before and after school activities that are nothing more than breakfast, lunch and dinner programs.  Leftists and socialists are only more than happy to have the government take on more and more of the role of parent as it further secures future income for their racket "profession."  And lazy, pathetic-excuses-for-parents are only more than happy to have that little crying bastard their beloved child outsourced to the state.  Besides, "it's for the chilllllldrreeeeeennnnnn."  And there's no amount of other people's money and government indoctrination that's too good for them, right?Second, it's not like the slavery ends at 18.  Not by a long shot.  Matter of fact this is when the child-enslavement kicks into high gear.  For after 13 years of indoctrination you can actually sell these young skulls full of mush on the idea of going into debt to the tune of $100,000 for worthless degrees that have no hope of ever providing a positive rate of return.  They are so deluded and misled they will actually spend anywhere from 4-8 years of their lives listening to worthless people spew worthless liberal arts and humanities, and they give these vermin their money.Finally, as the slave starts to approach 30, and has jumped through all the hurdles, giving the adults and the education/enslavement industry the best years of their lives, $100,000 in tuition, and unwavering blind brainwashed loyalty, they finally have nothing left to give.  They have been sucked dry of all their youth, all their money, all their energy and creativity, and thusly are...kicked to the curb.The adults no longer have any use for them (and the real world certainly doesn't).  They have served their purpose - to entertain and support other adults.  Besides, there are always newer and younger batches of slave-children being fed into the machine.  This child-slave has nothing left to offer and is thus discarded.Normally, this would enrage and anger most slaves.  However, there is one, final ingenious trick the slave masters played on their young victims.  They instilled in their children slaves unassailable egos.With 13 years of K-12 brainwashing, as well as 4-8 years more in college, the education-slave industry lied to the children-slaves.  They told them "how great they were" how "intelligent they were" and how they were bound for "great things if they just followed their heart and the money would follow."  And when faced with the reality that most of them had;1.  No skills or trades that were employable2.  No future job prospects 3.  Trillions of dollars in student debts4.  Just got suckeredtheir egos can't handle it.  Why, they're just so gosh darn intelligent!  Don't you know she has a 3.85 GPA in sociology?!  And instead of owning up to their mistakes for believing the BS the education-enslavement industry, they do what they were trained to do - lash out at the enemies of their indoctrinators."Evil big businesses.""IT's the corporations MAAAAN!!!""It's George Bush!""It's white males/oppression/racism/sexism!"So brainwashed are they, they will even continue to vote for socialist programs that mortgage their futures such as social security, national health care, medicare, etc. and some are so brainwashed, they merely double down hoping to become a slave master themselves by working for the education-enslavement industry. Most, however, with time, will realize when they're 40, 50, even 60 that they are the ones who are to blame for believing the lies the adults told them.But frankly, I don't care about them because by that time they are no longer children.  They're adults.Adults who should known better. 
The Consequences of Having No Consequences 
The hotel I'm at is a denizen forpeople on the cheap (like me)old timers looking to retire and live on the cheapand outlaws evading the law This makes for some colorful acquaintances, but also provides for some dangerous entertainment I, frankly, enjoy. One of the older men had imbibed too much.  He was a larger fellow, almost pushing 4 bills.  He passed out, collapsed, and landed on the floorboard heater which then proceeded to burn his skin to the point the smell awoke others, but not him.  He was then rushed to the local hospital and then helicoptered out to a burn unit and I believe he finally woke up only after they shaved off several pounds of flesh to address his burns.Not to be crass, but that's the truth.  Now we may mock and ridicule this alcoholic all we may, but the truth is the entire country is nothing more than a macro-economic incarnation of this fellow.  And the reason why is that we constantly bail out people from their mistakes, just like the alcohol prevented this sap from experiencing the full pain of his wounds.  We ensure there are no consequences.Complain all you want about "Wall Street Bankers," there are millions of "everyday mainstreet" people we bail out from their everyday, idiotic mistakes that cumulatively cause the country much more harm.They had too many kids.Bought a house they couldn't afford Majored in a worthless subjectStarted a sports bar that was guaranteed to fail.Or they racked up a ton of credit card debt.Everyday, day in, day out, either through forgiveness via the bankruptcy laws or a taxpayer bailout, we prevent the most stupid, ignorant, idiotic, parasitic, negative-net-economic value people of our society from suffering the full and complete financial, economic, and emotional consequences of their mistakes they fully deserve.Why?Because leftists have figured out they can score people's votes by shielding people from the consequences of their mistakes.  They have made a (temporary) world where there is no pain and no consequences.  Only success or neutrality.  But what are the consequences of a "world without consequences?"  What if we just paid for all the illegitimate children, bailed out all the banksters, forgave all the humanities-liberal-arts-worthless-degree-majoring college students, and just financially made sure nobody ever suffered their own stupidity?Complete and utter collapse of society.Understand a world where there are no consequences will only result in a selfish and childish society that will ultimately destroy itself.  The reason why is that if you use the public treasury to constantly bail people out of their mistakes they never are introduced, let alone, forced to live in the real world.  They are only brought up with the motherly positive-reinforcement and never the fatherly negative-reinforcement/punishment.  And they are therefore are never forced to be adults, let alone, self-sufficient, self-supporting, independent units of society.  Worse still, because of this lopsided upbringing, they think they have done no wrong and are incapable of shame.  And thus each independent unit turns out to be not only a dependent human, but an enititlement-mentalitied one as well.But there's a mathematical and economic catch.Classes of DEPENDENT humans can only last as long as the INDEPENDENT humans are producing enough economic surplus to finance both groups' livelihoods.  And while this economic-production-charade can be extended further as you dupe some suckers convince creditors like the Chinese, Japanese, Indians or others to lend you money against your non-producing assets, in the end there is NOT the production necessary to support everybody's livelihood. "Tami" the single mother of 3 from 5 different fathers, decides to default on her student loans when she pursued her "Masters in Peace Studies"and"Tanner Winthrop III" doesn't get paid back his $400 million loan he made to his Sigma Sigma Phi frat brother for that micro-brew that failedandany one of the hundreds of millions of equally negative-net-economci value people who rely in some way or another on others' production to bail them out, slowly, but surely start to overcome, and like a cancer consume, outnumber and inevitably kill the productive cells and host.In short, the whole leftist, boomer-era, Dr. Spock, BS of shielding our pwuecious wittle childwren from the harsh realities of society (because you were too lazy to parent) has only served to produce two generations of net-negative economic producers, three if you include the boomers themselves.And while we can play the game of moving cones or changing accounting rules, in the end what we ultimately have is

a bunch of adult children incapable of supporting themselves, 
hopelessly depending on a government for their livelihood, 
which itself is hopelessly dependent on a deteriorating tax base, 
which also then relies on the naivety of foreign creditors to lend against our WWII generation's reputation
while current generations watch "Keeping Up With the Kardaishians," major in sociology, and vote such an inconceivably inept man like Barack Obama into the presidency.

The fact millions of creditors lent $16 trillion against such lousy, pathetic, worthless, and non-producing assets is beyond me. 
Drawbacks of "Making It" 
If you play your cards right, or just don't make any major errors in your life, you will "make it."What does that mean?Well, whatever your life goal was specific to you. You don't have to work for the man.You have enough residual or dividend income to not work any more.You achieved a "minimalist nirvana" allowing you to jet set around the world.You won the lottery. Whatever it is, in general, it means you achieved the goal you set out for yourself in life and can now enjoy the fruits of your labor.However, like all things in life, nothing is perfect and everybody's life will have problems regardless of how happy and perfect it may look to outsiders.  And since a disproportionate percentage of my readers have independent psychologies and spirits, and are likely to head down this path, I wanted to not so much warn but "explain" what kind of problems you'll run into when you "make it."First, understand any unique or different individual is so far down the right or the left of the bell curve that though highly talented in some areas, they are by statistical default the "outliers of society."  You, by definition of being you, will not fit or jive with vast majority of the population.  This is of course your primary strength, allowing you a different life, a better life, and a life not wasted.  But at the same time since you are so far down the tail of the curve, it is also very lonely. For example I climbed Desseret Peak on a beautiful Spring day in Utah.  The weather was perfect.  It was sunny, it was a perfect day for everybody to be out hiking.How many people were on the mountain range that day?4.One was named "Tom" who I met at the peak and the other 2 were some rookies who were trying to summit the peak starting in the afternoon (which means they would be hiking down at night and getting lost).  Aside from that, nothing and nobody.The reason is simple.  Tom and I are too far down the right of the curve.  Neither of us had to work. Neither of us had kids we had to tend to.  And both of us were in the necessary shape to scale Deseret. Those three traits combined ensured there would only be two people on top of that mountain that beautiful day (and it was a statistical coincidence we were even on the peak at the same time).The point is that if you pursue an individualistic lifestyle you will be to a certain extent peerless because only you are your own individual.  And dare you start to not only think, but live, outside of the box, there will be less contemporaries for you to meet and engage with.Second, society is not geared or tailored for the individual. It is tailored for the masses.My girlfriend and I were driving past the mall and I asked her,"My god, how many people go shopping?  Look at all those cars!!!  What can those people possibly be buying?"But then I realized it wasn't the thousands of people in the mall that were weird or odd.  It was me.  The only places I shop are Wal-Mart, the grocery store, and Amazon.  I never go "shopping" as if it's an activity, I only shop for the bare necessities because it's a chore.  The rest of society does the opposite, and society in turn designs itself around this, shopping merely being one small example of this;Highways are built to deliver worker drones to centers of work. Work schedules are assumed to be 8-5.You get health insurance with your employers Restaurants serve breakfast during breakfast hours, lunch during lunch hours, and dinner during dinner hours.Everybody goes to collegeEverybody needs to own a homeThe list goes on.You buck this, you deny yourself the economies-to-scale benefits that come with it.You self-employed?   To hell with you on many levels.  You can't qualify for a mortgage, you get to pay twice the social security tax and self-employment tax, you get to pay for your own insurance and society will view you as a loser just one step above welfare recipient.You don't want kids?  Tough crap anyway.  Pay more in property taxes to subsidize other people's children.  Pay more in taxes in general as we provide WIC, EBT and welfare to people who had children they couldn't afford.  A sizable percentage of people won't want to date you.  And then there's always the occasional person who will claim you're selfish for not suffering their misery breeding.You need to moonlight at night to work on your own personal projects?  Too bad, restaurants aren't open, nobody is awake, and let's not forget the social stigma associated with working as a security guard.This doesn't mean there aren't benefits for working outside the Matrix (say, like never commuting), but it is to say you will not be able to avail yourself of how society is structured, even sometimes having to work against it.Finally, arguably the worst drawback is what I like to call the "Shark Syndrome."Sharks cannot stop swimming.  If they do, the lack of flow of water over their gills deprives them of oxygen and they die.  So even when sharks sleep, they are swimming.Independent types like us are the same.Either driven by poverty, the drudgery of a corporate gig, a disgust with society, or the intellectual curiosity and desire to push your mind and abilities to their limit, we are constantly pushing, working, and striving to succeed and "make it." The problem is "what do you do when you make it?"Just stop?The sad truth is to "make it" usually takes at least 10-20 years of hard work, discipline and effort.  And by that time (and combined with our types of psychologies) you simply can't stop.  You can't "turn it off."  It is not longer a pursuit to achieve independence and luxury, but becomes one of achieving excellence.This results in the ironic situation of where you may have been brought up poor and wanted nothing more than to live a life of luxury, but after two decades of striving, working hard, and being innovative, that temerity and work-ethic has now become part of you, if not, fully defines you.  And even though you may have achieved the lax life of luxury you always wanted, you can't enjoy it because your mind won't let you.  It now needs to keep going.This forms two problems for those of you who actually "make it."  One, (and I believe this especially for men), you need "agency."  I had to look this up because Aurini with his freaking 217 point IQ keeps using words I don't know, forcing unwanted vocabulary lessons on me.  In other words you need purpose in life.  YOu can't just, at the age of 40, retire and sit on a beach.  Certainly not after the hell you went through to get to that point. You need "agency."  So even if you won the lottery and could just jet set across the world, the average man (and I am presuming woman) could not just sit there and eat bon bons all day playing video games.  You would need to get out and do something of worth or merit otherwise you have none.Two, you are psychologically incapable of enjoying life and leisure, because it is the pursuit of that leisure, not enjoying it, that gives you the greatest joy. This is not necessarily a bad thing in that this constant pursuit of achievement results in becoming the "World's Most Interesting Man," because once you've "made it" you ask "what's next?"  But since you've made it, your next venture needn't be business minded or profitable, just something that is more challenging than before. This is a problem I (and you will) face in that my "new challenges" are not only NOT relaxing, but increasingly risky as well.  My 2,200 mile motorcycle ride (on a crotch rocket) from Wyoming to Phoenix, AZ was awesome, but not enough.  I will now be doing a 4,500 motorcycle ride through the Canadian Rockies (alone of course).  Doing a 20 mile hike in the Badlands wasn't enough, I had to transverse the entire park (nearly suffering heat stroke and almost falling into an underground cavern).  And even my daily chore list isn't enough, usually resulting in me staying up later than I should and depriving myself of sleep. Whatever the case, it doesn't stop as you need to constantly be going and you never let yourself relax and enjoy life.THe solutions to these two problems are simple. First, ensure you always have something to do.  And I'm not talking about "cleaning the house" or "changing the oil," but projects that make you a better man.  Projects that provide you agency.  Writing a book.  Rebuilding a car.  Self-teaching yourself electronics.  Climbing mountains. etc.  And you're going to have to provide yourself your own agency, because it isn't like corporate America or the feminist-HR department is going to provide you agency, let alone rewarding agency.  You need to have an endless list of life-projects you're going to work on to carry you until you're dead.Second, you need to take some of that self-control and discipline that helped you "make it" in the first place, turn it around and FORCE yourself to enjoy and relax.  Again, I am being a bit of a hypocrite here.  I actually have to FORCE myself to sleep till 10AM.  I actually have to FORCE myself to play video games.  And if you take my laptop away from me I cannot just "sit and enjoy a cigar."  It is probably only through booze I can force myself to relax.  But you must also realize, more importantly, that your body is not designed to CONSTANTLY go at the rate that helped you "make it."  It needs to rest.  It needs to relax.  YOu will only shorten your life expectancy if you can't turn it off.  It is here where getting into a good habit like FORCING yourself at least 2 hours a day of watching TV or playing video games will help.  It is here where making sure you get 9-10 hours of sleep a day will post pone your rapidly approach stroke or heart attack.Again, I am the pot calling the kettle black in this regard, but when you get here and finally "make it" these are the new problems you will face in life.  
Peerlessness 
When I tell people i'm going tornado chasing a common witticism I receive in response is "what will you do when you catch one?"Touche witty friends of Cappy, touche.However, a slight spin on that question has a lesson for all of us and one I'd like to share:"What would you do if you realized your dreams?"Very rarely do people realize their dreams.  And the reason is simple - society is predisposed to ensure you don't.I don't mean this in a "conspiratorial" sense, that there is some sentient, organized effort to prevent you from realizing your dreams, but that society is structured and organized to take advantage, live off of, and parasite off of its precious youth.Chances are if you were born after 1960 your parents wanted you because THEY wanted a child.  Whether they could AFFORD children, whether they SHOULD have children, and whether they had the adult capacity to raise children be damned.  They wanted a child like a soccer mom wants an SUV.  And thus your upbringing was already impaired from the get go because you were an "object" or a "thing" in the eyes of your parents, not another human being.After that you were pretty much a pawn for the state via the state education system.  Your parents, too "busy" to rear you yourself, were thankful that at the age of 5 you could be outsourced to a government daycare program "go to school."  There you learned what a socialist/leftist government approved labor union wanted you to.Global warmingOzone LayerRecycle Give money to poor disadvantaged people in third world countriesYou're privilegedVote democratGo to college at all costs and other things that were neither educational, nor helpful. You then went to college, because you were told to, incurred a ton of debt, and then started a career where at any moment you could be fired for the most made-up-of reasons and were strongly encouraged to donate money to your 401k plan, which would be confiscated or haircuted anyway.In short, your dreams of what you wanted to do as a child never really stood much of a chance.  Because from the day you were conceived (not born) society already had your time booked to be slaved away to serve it and not you.  Those dreams were merely a fake incentive to get you to work for them. And, for most people, they succumbed to the matrix, they obeyed, they "did what they were told" and now are suffering a mortgage they can't afford, persistent student loans, a spouse that hates them, children they really shouldn't have had, a car payment, parents who refused to sock away for retirement, and a boss that owns them because they are by-proxy-enslaved via debt.But then there are the "others.""Others?"  You ask.Yes, "the others."The men and women who got sent to the principle's office often.  The boys and girls who could stump their teacher in the 3rd grade with...well...3rd grade logic.  The young 20 somethings who knew something was wrong, couldn't put their finger on it, but via the internet, compared notes, removed the wool from their eyes and realized just what a scam society had in store for them.We call these people "independent minded."Most of us fall into this category.  We didn't fit in, we refused to obey, and we knew something was amiss, but society kept on telling us we were flawed, erroneous and just plain wrong.  Our audacity and personalities would not accept it and we stuck to our guns.  We decided we didn't have to obey what society told us.  We decided we were going to get a bang for our finite live's buck.  We were going to drive our lives to the limit and do what we god damned pleased with it - consequences and society's desires be damned.And thus you have a new breed of westerners and independent thinkers.  Young men (and women) who refused to go with the matrix and are truly independent people.There are of course, benefits.We don't fall for the college/education scam.  We do not waste our best years laboring away for an opportunistic employer.  We don't have enough assets to be confiscated in a 401k or IRA.  We don't have debts we can't afford.  We don't have kids we can't afford.  And by merely identifying and side-stepping the slave-trap society had laid out for us, we're living lives that are arguably the freest in human history.I just went to Alaska and back on a motorcycle at a whim.  Danny is going to live in a trailer in Louisiana, spending time with his nephew, and retire at 40.  Matt hitch hiked across America.  Roosh is gallivanting around the globe chasing girls and getting paid for it. Davis and Silvio wrote two great books.  And scores of you are starting your own business or going on your own adventure.  We could go on, but in general, adherents of this new independent line of thinking are capitalizing on the one finite lives they've been given and are thusly living better lives the the average sheeple.Just one problem.When I say we are living lives that are arguably the freest in human history, I'm not joking.  We really are.  But who else has gone down this path?  Who else have lived such free lives?  Has anyone gone down this rabbit hole before?  Has any one tread this path in the past?While there certainly have been independent minded people in the past, they are so rare and so uncommon their experiences are either unavailable for public consumption or have been lost to history.  Their philosophies, observations and epiphanies were considered "obscure" or "outliers" and thus never made it into the realm of "common sense" or "general wisdom."  And with this lost, or perhaps, never recorded knowledge, we are going into uncharted territory.  And as with every trip into the unknown there are always unforeseen costs, consequences and drawbacks.It is here a sad irony unfolds.To the outside observer, stuck at their wage slave job, and boring mundane lives, all the see is the positives.  Gallivanting around the world, climbing mountains, leaving at a whim, never worrying about money, answering to no one.  Their entire lives they have been told (and truthfully so) that this is the "dream" and when you achieve it all will be well. There will be no more problems and you will be happy.  But what they don't see is the unforeseen costs and consequences to "living the dream" and living such independent lives.  Costs and consequences that are all too real and hidden/overshadowed by the blinding benefits.First is the issue of peerlessness.  I say this not to brag, and I need you to understand that.  I am NOT bragging.  I am telling you the truth to make a point and to help you in the future.  But this past summer I took two vacations.  The first one was 2 weeks in the Black Hills and Badlands of South Dakota with my motorcycle.  I drove all over the place, hiked all over the place, smoked cigars and gambled in Deadwood.  I experienced something most motorcyclists across the world can only dream of experiencing.  The second one trumped even that.  I drove to Alaska and back.  I saw mountains that put the Black Hills to shame and am one of the very few to claim they drove to Alaska on a bike.I was miserable about half the time on both trips.Why?Because after you gun through the Needles Highway on a crotch rocket or make it to Hyder, Alaska or summit Harney Peak or hike in Banff, and the adrenaline wears off, you are once again alone because nobody can just take 4 weeks off on a whim.  There is nobody to share the experience with, not because you don't have friends, but because you are so far to the right of the mean nobody can keep up.  Either because they don't have the money, they don't have the time, they don't have the physique, or (more commonly) they don't have the interest.Roosh is another example.  You may disagree with his life choice, but again, to the outside 20 something male observer, Roosh is living the dream.  He flies around the world, makes money on writing books about how to seduce women in different countries, and that's his job.  But at the end of the day, how many people can Roosh associate with?  Who can he compare notes with?  Not only is he peerless in that nobody else in the world is doing what he does, but in traveling so extensively, he rarely is in a country where people speak English, pushing him further to the right of the bell curve into further isolation.  It isn't until he returns home does he have his peer group surrounding him again.Whatever it is and whatever your dream may be, realize if you realize it, it will be YOUR dream. And in it being "your dream" it will be so specific and unique to you that by default you will not have any peers.Second is decreasing novelty.  Imagine if your palate would became inured to new foods the moment you tasted it.  You would have to keep pushing the edge getting newer, spicier, and more obscure foods.  You'd try one food, and then would become bored with it, forcing you on this spiral to constantly be trying to find new foods.  Yes you could eat to merely survive, but you will never experience that "first taste" ever again until you find something bigger, better, and newer.Your brain is the same way.Once you achieve your dream, you will become inured to it.  My childhood dream was to climb mountains.  My first real mountain was Flinch Peak in Glacier National Park.  It was amazing.  Then I did Hallet's Peak, Laramie Peak, Deseret Peak, Lake Angeline, and more and more and more until one day, half way up a new mountain, I couldn't go on.  Not out of physical weakness, but no desire.  It would be just another peak.  I would be up there by myself.  The view could have very well been as spectacular as when I first summited Flinch Peak, but it would be nowhere near as impressive.  It would just be more rocks, dirt and snow.In short, because society enslaves you and prevents you from ever realizing your dreams, you think when you inevitably realize them you will be engaged and stimulated for the rest of your life.The truth is you will tire of it in about 2-3 years and need to find a new source of inspiration.  You will also wonder if the new "dream" will be the same, and you will then finally realize there is no "final solution" to happiness.  Like a shark, you will need to keep swimming, keep going, keep trying or else you will become inured to life.Now, I paint a very dark and depressing picture.  And I know, I know, crocodile tears and world's smallest violin.Would I EVER want to go back to a bank or a corporate gig?  Would I or any of the other independent minded types who are pushing the frontiers of independence EVER go back to regular lives?Absolutely not.  We KNOW and APPRECIATE what we have.But the reason I bring these drawbacks up is not to complain but to warn those of you who are on the path to achieving and realizing your own dreams in your own lives.  And that is a higher percentage of you than most of you realize.Understand this current "generation" of "others" or "independent minded types" had to start from scratch to get where we are.  There was no advice, there was no wisdom, there was no internet.  We had to wake ourselves up, take our own red pill, with many of us not waking up until our 30's, 40's or 50's.  But with the internet and the plethora of websites out there speaking these derived truths and provide such advice, the "next generation" will be able to benefit from our experiences.  And the whole concept of wisdom is to help the younger generations by passing on our knowledge so that you may have BETTER lives than us.This means many of you will be reaching your goals and realizing your dreams ever earlier on than we did.  And while you may think this is great (and it certainly is) us "elders" or "older brother types" who are down the path further than you, would do you no service in not warning you about the drawbacks that await.  So in short, consider multiple dreams and goals you wish to achieve because if you take our advice you will have enough time in life to realize more than one.  And you're going to need them to maintain your sanity and intellect.  Also I strongly recommend appreciating your fellow human being and developing an interest in intellectual thought and good conversation with your fellow man.  I delve into more detail here, but it is not through peaks of mountains, riches, or a high notch count that happiness lies.  It is your fellow man.  Finally, do not be so stupid as to shoot yourself in the foot by making foolish mistakes.  i.e.-getting somebody/yourself pregnant, majoring in a stupid subject, going into debt for material things, etc.  None of your dreams can be accomplished if you've crippled yourself with stupidity.  
Why Scarcity is a Good Thing 
The sworn enemy of economists is not debt, as you may presume. It's scarcity.The reason why is that if you eliminated "scarcity" you would have unlimited "wealth," solving all of the economic problems of the world.However, terms like "scarcity" and "wealth" have very specific meanings to economists and when compared to the meanings associated with them by normal people, there is some miscommunication."Scarcity" means that there is only a limited amount of the stuff.  Technically, everything is scarce.  There is a limited amount of dirt.  There is a limited amount of rocks.  However, when it gets to things like oil, gold, iron ore, etc. things become a little more scarce.  Because of this people must be efficient, they must be "economic" in their decisions on how to use these scarce resources to get "the most" out of them.Get the most what?Get the most "wealth.""Wealth" though commonly assumed to be money or income, is quite different in economic terms.  "Wealth" is simply "stuff."  Your cars, your food, your house, every item and asset you own. The reason why economists are so focused on "wealth" and not "money" is because it is not so much the MONEY that matters to people as much as it is the physical items and services.  In short you don't get a benefit from a $20 bill.  You can't eat the $20 bill.  That money is technically not wealth.  The $20 in groceries it can buy, however, is.  Because those groceries will help maintain and improve your life.  Therefore, in an ideal world (say like Star Trek where they have a replicator), resources would not be scarce, but limitless.  If you had unlimited oil or unlimited diamonds or unlimited chocolate, everybody's "wealth" would increase to a maximum level at minimal cost.  Standards of living would be unlimited and the only thing that would limit your life would be your mortality.  Ironically, in such a world, economists would be unemployed because there would be no need for them.Of course, a scarceless, unlimited wealthy world is not feasible.  There is a limit to everything, not only including physical resources, but human time as well.  But there ARE instances of unlimited wealth and while economists may think that is the ideal situation or "goal" of economics, they  may want to rethink such an infinitely wealthy world.  Understand there are instances of unlimited wealth.  I've seen it first hand.  And it was when one of the Saudi princes came to the Mayo Clinic.My buddy ran the security company that was hired to provide the prince protection.  He flew in with an entourage of about 120 people, 90 of which were support staff, servants, cooks and maids.  he flew in his own private airliner and was so wealthy he had rented EVERY 2010 Mercedes S Class in the UNITED STATES that was rentable (it was 2009 and he would ONLY settle for the newest cars) to transport him and his family (chauffeurs were driving from California and NYC).  There were also trucks lined up at the airport that would be used to transport all the items he and his entourage would purchase at the Mall of America and other places.  And he had rented out two entire floors of the Kahler Hotel in downtown Rochester.He and his family had unlimited wealth.But what transpired afterwards was something that I couldn't put my finger on, but after reflecting upon figured out what was going on.He and his family would buy ANYTHING.And by ANYTHING I meant ANYTHING.One of his three wives bought a large commercial sized crate of hand lotion at Wal-Mart.  Another wife would buy clothes at Nordstroms.  One of his daughters left the convoy and her protection for a slice of pizza at Pizza Hut, only to take one bite and throw it away.  Top of the line German cars were purchased, as was jewelry.  Though one of the princesses insisted on having her hair cut at a cheap salon.There was no rhyme or reason to their purchases.  They didn't buy "only the best" as evidenced by their trip to Wal-Mart.  They didn't buy stuff they needed as evidenced by the crate of hand sanitizer.  They didn't buy stuff they were going to use (one of the wives bought three truckloads of crap she could never ever wear/consume in her life time).  And they didn't buy stuff for a purpose (tools, medicine, entertainment).They just bought stuff for the sake of buying.And then I saw what was going on.With literally unlimited wealth the Saudi prince and his family were unable to assess VALUE.  Their entire lives they could afford anything they wanted.  There is more than one story of a Saudi prince buying a brand new Mercedes, having NO CLUE it runs on this thing called "gas," runs out of gas in the middle of the desert, and abandons the car there.  He would simply get picked up, returned to the castle and buy another one.  The reason why is that with unlimited wealth that Mercedes might as well cost as much as a piece of chewing gum because to the Saudi prince, it does.  $100,000 vs. $1 is an inconsequential difference to a man with $10 billion.But while you and many economists may wish to be so wealthy, think again, for there is a consequence.What would your life be without the ability to judge VALUE?You take this ability for granted.  You, me and most normal people have to assess, judge, discern and discriminate how we spend our resources.  We have to compare whether or not the outlay in terms of time, money or resources is worth the item or service we purchase.  And not only in our purchasing lives, but our social lives as well.Do you spend time with that annoying friend or the couple who can't keep their loud obnoxious kids in line?Do you spend the time getting that Masters in Quadrapalegic Turtle Art History Transgender Studies?Do you go on a date with Tami the Suburbanite Bimbo Brat or have a scotch and cigar with your buddies?But if we had unlimited funds and essentially our entire free time to ourselves, how would you be able to discern which is better?  You didn't have to part with a piece of your finite life to get the money or the day off to enjoy a purchase or social time with friends.  And since you didn't have to forfeit anything in exchange for money or free time, you don't value it.  Your time and life is essentially worthless and you will spend it accordingly so.  This is why the Saudis not only piss away their money in the most random and chaotic fashion, but why they also were never smiling.  They were grumpy, I never saw one smile, they were miserable.  I would even consider them zombie-like when you'd see them going to and fro in the world's most expensive cars to go places their subjects could only DREAM of going and would be ecstatic in doing so.   And also imagine how impaired their ability is to judge human value.  Do you think any one of the score of princesses has a good friend to talk to?  Do you think the princess has ever endured hardship and strife or just a plain challenge that would have developed character and a personality?  Or do they just have legions of servants, maids and yes-men taking advantage of them for their wealth?  Heck, one could make a very good claim the Saudi royalty is inoculated against love because they aren't capable of it and nobody would love such boring, mindless, money-spending automatons.  In short having unlimited wealth would be nothing less than sustaining an injury that would cause you to lose one of your senses.  You become blind, you become deaf, or you become paralyzed.  You can no longer "sense" value and therefore can no longer make wise decisions on how best to spend your life.  Worse still you lose your ability to determine what is important in life.Fortunately, however, for you and me and most everybody else, we were brought up poor or certainly not "billionaires."  We've had to discern and judge value.  We've had to work for we got.  We've had to suffer and sacrifice, and thusly attach a value to our time.   Consequently we have richer lives than any Saudi king will ever have. 
How to Avenge the Death of the United States 
I, along with millions of others, are angry.And we are angry because we have had our country, culture and futures taken away from us.We were supposed to inherit the world's greatest country, and with hard work, a good education, and a good moral code, we would enjoy a great life.  Some of us would have great careers.  Some would have great families.  Others would have great adventures.  And most of us would have all three.  On top of it, there was a guarantee that we'd be reasonably safe and that this country, its economy, and its government would be reasonably stable.  We could focus on advancing ourselves and enjoying our lives, instead of having to fight just to maintain our culture, our nation, and common sense.Of course, all of this is now rapidly becoming just a dream.  Yes, it was very feasible back in the 1980's when you had the likes of Ronald Reagan in office and the majority of the population loved America, what it stood for and were willing to fight for it.  But three decades of socialist brainwashing in the public schools, media, and government has resulted in an ignorant, entitled, and lazy electorate that cumulatively has rejected America, freedom, individualism and liberty, and instead replaced it with socialism, the lack of responsibility, commune, lies about the real world, and a vile code of political correctness.And thus every aspect of America has been destroyed and we all get to suffer for it.Romance (arguably the most important part of people's lives) has been corrupted as women are fat, narcissistic, arrogant and ugly, while men are weak, emasculated, timid and breakable.  The labor market is dysfunctional as you now need a masters in some worthless degree (and the debt that comes along with it) just to get a ENTRY LEVEL POSITION.  The government mandates we judge people by the color of their skin and not their character.  Generational unity has become a joke as one generation insists on living off of the others via social security, medicare and Obamacare.  We don't even have the self-respect to protect our borders, allowing people from the world's worst countries to come in and live off the government because it brings in more socialist votes.  Worse still the left has been so successful at brainwashing people you have the most spoiled brats in the entire world hating the country that afforded them a 1st world lifestyle.And so instead of that stable job right out of high school, with the fit wife and two healthy children, and a car and house you can afford, with the knowledge and security that your government is working for you, you now have...Ugly and disgusting options when it comes to choosing a mateChildren that are going to be brought up by the stateStudent loans that prevent you from ever having a houseA lousy job market that will prevent you from ever affording a decent carand a constant battle on your hands against a growing number of brainwashed, leftists zombies who are trained to hate you and wage war on you and your country daily through activism, regulations, taxation, lawsuits, lobbying and idiotic faux religions like global warming.  The difference could not be more stark, and your anger could not be more justified.But what do you do?As I've said before, this IS a democracy, and for better or worse, the majority DID vote this in.  So you can't be killing people or taking up arms as it would be the antithesis of democracy - i.e.- you would be a tyrant.  But this still doesn't address how you stop this unstoppable trend towards socialism and the destruction of the United States.  Voting doesn't work when the electorate is getting dumber, more dependent, more parasitical and more socialist.  And write all the letters to the editor or try to reason with people, they are so thoroughly brainwashed they have become zealots - beyond reason, logic and fact.Well my good junior, deputy, aspiring, official or otherwise economists, there's only one thing we can do.Help accelerate the transition to socialism.You see, trying to stop socialism is futile in that the majority of its adherents are again, zealots.  They are zombies.  They don't care about anything else but their religion, which just so happens to take the form of socialism.  They are so wedded to their ideology that it trumps facts, reality, truth, and data.  They are literally delusional and NO amount of reasoning, arguing, or rationalizing with these people will work.How many times have you been at a 20 something party and gone in scores of circles with some ditz or some pansy of a man explaining, rationally, logically, and empirically your point, only to have them dismiss you with a bogus study from academia, flawed logic, or just get frustrated and call you an "ist?" (racist, sexist, etc.).  How many times have you tried to explain to the 32 year old mom that "no, there really isn't enough money to pay for all these kid's programs" only to have her respond with "well the rich have loopholes and they don't pay their fair share" (never once her ever looking at the federal budget).  I could go on, but you get the point - the majority of ADULTS (let alone children) do not care to be intellectually honest or take the time to study or think through their ideology.  And most people's lives are so void of any real accomplishment or meaning, socialism is the ONLY thing they have in their lives.  And any time you dare to introduce an ounce of sanity, realism, reality, facts, or data into their fragile world, you deliver a blow to their egos and their core, resulting in (at best) polite cognitive dissonance, but more often vitriol and hatred.You will NEVER convince these people as they have no desire nor capacity for intellectual honesty.The only option is to give them socialism full force and make them sleep in the bed they made.How?Well, here is where it is actually quite practical and feasible.Understand socialism is parasitical (and by default, unsustainable) in nature.  It needs a host to do the majority of the work while the parasites live off of that host.But what if that host goes on strike?Yes, yes, "going Galt," you've heard it before, but have you looked at the numbers?Already people have been going Galt since 2008.  A lot of this has been of course by force with the recession forcing unemployment on people.  But a better sign is the labor force participation rate which shows the percent of people who can work and are ACTUALLY SEEKING WORK.

Again, some of frustration from not being able to find a job, but some are also changing their life views towards work and "making do with less."  This trend essentially proves the host is shrinking itself, producing less for the parasites.Of course, the parasites in the US haven't been on a diet.  Government spending has gone through the roof, obesity of presumably "poor" people have ballooned as well, heck, we even give phones for votes to our worst citizens.But if the host is shrinking, where does all the money come from to feed the parasites?Thank you China, Japan, Saudi Arabia and other suckers federal government creditors:

We have been running TRILLION DOLLAR PLUS deficits for the past 4 years and will probably run another for a 5th.  Trillion dollar surpluses are proof positive the host is no longer large enough to sustain the parasites and the system needs a blood transfusion.In other words if it wasn't for the Chinese, Japanese and other suckers federal government creditors this "economic reckoning" would have occurred a long time ago and the full price of socialism would have finally been borne by the parasites and socialists.  Without borrowing, prices for every good would skyrocket.  Electricity and energy would become a crippling expense.  Shelves would not be as full, if not outright empty, giving EBT card holders a dose or irony.  In general, a whole host and slew of economic consequences, always associated with socialism, would rain down on the ignorant electorate giving them the much needed economic slap across the face in the form of starvation, hunger, cold, disease and general physical and mental pain.  But as long as the suckers creditors are there, lending money, politicians can at least keep the lights on, buy votes, and postpone the inevitable economic punishment that will come.So how do we get our creditors to turn off the line of credit?  How do we get them to stop lending the US government money so society can actually pay and experience the full costs and price of socialism?Tank our credit rating.Understand that if enough people were to go Galt and go on strike, the US' economic fundamentals would sour enough that it would have an effect on our credit rating.  If GDP were to start to contract, instead of grow, it would make the Chinese very nervous.  If consumer spending were to tank, instead of grow, it would make the Japanese very nervous.  And if the labor force participation rate, labor force productivity, and other measures of labor utility were to tank, it would make the Saudi's very nervous.In short, if a critical mass of people were to justquitstop spending so much moneydrop down to part timedownsizeand in general minimize themselvesour economy would contract to the point even the Chinese, Japanese and Saudi's wouldn't lend us money.  The line of credit is cut, nobody lends any more money to Obama and Pelosi, their bribe money runs dry, and their parasitical constituents force the first time are not bailed out of their mistakes.  EBT cards run balances down to zero.  The welfare check bounces.  Your disability check is late.  You student loans aren't funded.  The buses aren't running.  And it all wouldn't matter anyway because there's nothing in the shelves at Wal-Mart because 25% of their work force went Galt and are at home living off of their home grown veggies.Of course, grinding the US economy to a halt like this is not likely.  And the reason why is the beta-debt-ridden-wage-slave.  The single, largest and most powerful part of the US economic engine are those hard working, loyal, wage slaves who plain cannot afford to "go Galt."Why?A whole host of reasons.They have a family.  They have a wife/husband.  They have a mortgage.  They have car loans.  They have student loans.  They have their kids student loans.  They have to pay for hockey.  They have a credit card debt.  They have a line of credit.In short a goodly portion of the US' economic engine is ball and chained to their jobs via debts they can barely afford and families that are dependent upon them.  They will slave away for 3rd world illegal immigrants who hate them because they need to make the next lease payment on that Lexus SUV for wifey.  They will slave away for the quadruple single mom who is majoring in Women's Studies because they need to live in that McMansion in that good school district where the property taxes are sky high.  They will slave away for any parasite because the banks, mortgage companies, car companies, credit cards, and divorce/legal system has them by the balls.There is some good news however.These beta-debt-ridden-wage-slaves are NOT the innovators or creators.  They are not the entrepreneurs or the business developers.  They are SLAVES, they are CONFORMISTS, they will NEVER create a Microsoft, an Apple, a Wal-Mart or what have you.That is where you renegade, non-conforming, misbehaving, individualists come in.I contend, though I have no hard numbers to back it up, there are enough individualistic people, who are not ridden with debt, not beholden to their families, that we could lop off at least 4% GDP, sending the US economy into recession.How?  By becoming Minimalism Pirates.If enough people, who can afford to go the minimalism lifestyle, were to just up and quit their jobs, drop down to part time, or heck, even go on the government dole, you will do your share in helping bring the socialist system down.  Also, in spending less, you will also do your share to bring the socialist system down.  In just having a critical mass percentage of the independent minded types, the future or current entrepreneurs, just go Galt and become Minimalism Pirates, that should be enough to slow the US economy down, send it back into recession, increase the amount the US needs to borrow, and decrease its credit rating.Of course, this requires some sacrifice on the part of people going Galt.  Say you have a great career and you can't "scale it" to part time.  YOu need to work full time, you might lose your skill set, you worked hard for what you earned.  It may not be worth it.  But if you're like most people, you hate your job, you hate paying taxes for socialist, parasitic scum, and with some cut backs in spending, debt abatement, you can minimize your "economic footprint" and enjoy a freer life.  You know that family, friends and loves ones are the most important thing in life, and thus you don't need that Mercedes and thus you don't need to work.  You know sleeping in will help boost your health vs. a daily stressful commute every day, and so you only work part time telecommuting.  And while you wake up, refreshed, drinking your coffee at 10AM, finishing your "work" by noon, you go out and ride your motorcycle, watch cartoons, write that book you always wanted to write, or spend time with your kids.And if that's how you have to defend America and strike back at the parasitical socialist scum of this society, then so be it. 
Time Is More Important Than Money 
The average man lives to be about 79 while the average woman will live to about 82.However, the average man does not make $1 million per year in income and the average woman does not have a net worth of $40 million.But there's an interesting thing about the relationship between life expectancy and riches - there is none.Yes, up front, where you're dirt poor, living in Somalia, spitting out 8 children per woman, and you can't afford the basics like food, medicine, shelter, etc., a little bit of income goes a long way.  But once you make it past, oh say, the $25,000 mark, the added health benefit of any extra money goes away.  In other words, if you live in the 1st world, your income will have no effect on your health or life expectancy.This is an important point to make in that it should provide some guidance in how to lead, live and enjoy your life to its maximum extent - time is more important than money.Take a look at any super rich person - Bill Gates, Warren Buffett, Carlos Slim, Oprah, you name it, these people are not going to live any longer than a guy who brings in $50,000 a year.  Sure they may enjoy things the average Joe won't enjoy (sushi every day, yachts, travel, etc.) but when all is said and done, these people are going to die pretty spot on the average life expectancy.  Therefore the only reason to work that hard or aspire to be rich is to buy all the pretty little toys and enjoy the "rich" lifestyle.But here's another little secret - toys and material items are not the most important things in life.  It is (as I've said many times before) other people.  Conversation, thought, philosophy, love, humor, pranking, sparing and witticizing with other humans is the best thing that can happen in a person's life.  And if they have that, then a Ferrari or sushi every night won't really matter. Extrapolating from these two observations (life expectancies are pretty standard across income levels in the 1st world and other humans are the most important thing in life) you should be able to make some important conclusions about "work life" balance.First, if you're making $25,000 a year and you have family, friends and loved ones, why work harder or make more money?  You're only going to pay more in taxes and spend less time with the people who really matter.  You are better off working part time, going home to help raise the kids or get some beers with the guys at the bar or have an afternoon quicky with your wife.Second, along the same lines, you should be working LESS in that while you may be making extra money, the amount of psychological, political and corporate BS you would have to endure only serves to increase your stress and destroy your health.  Again, unless you were an idiot and bought a house you couldn't afford, a spouse you couldn't subsidize, and children you coudln't rear, and are up to your eyes in debt, you can (AND SHOULD) scale back on work and enjoy life.Third, this puts a MAJOR emphasis on physical health. You NEED to eat right, you NEED to work out and exercise, you need to keep your body in shape.  These actions cost you NOTHING but extend the only resource you have - time more than income would.  This extra time will result in not only additional time you get to spend with loved ones, but you'll feel better, you'll look better, you'll have better sex, and that right there is enough to make any leftists raging with envy.  Besides, would you rather be out running around, knocking out 4 miles on a beautiful day or sitting in that cubicle hoping Mr. Grayhair McMoron might promote you to ASSISTANT Reserve Adjunct Vice President?Finally, Steve Jobs.  You'll never know where or when and it's better to have died a poor man who enjoyed life than a rich one who didn't. So do yourself and all your loved ones a favor.Go home.Do some budgeting and number crunching.And see how little you can get by on.See if you can go down to part time.  See if you can get by on a security guard income.  See if you can't make it on the ancillary revenue your home based business generates.  See if you can't downsize into a smaller apartment.Because the only better feeling than telling your boss you don't need him/her any more is when it's a beautiful day like today and you know all your former bosses are cooped up inside, working on their TRP reports, answering to an equally retarded boss and are on the verge of divorce with children that hate them, while you're out running, spending time with your kids, or just playing some video games tanked on a bottle of Rumpie. 
Diminishing Returns on Human Effort 
I contend it is human nature to excel and progress.The reason is simple - survival.  It is hard-wired into people's brains to survive and until the very recent (in terms of human history) advent and expansion of capitalism and free markets, which made things we used to strive for (food, shelter, safety, health) plentiful, human existence was harsh, cruel and short.  Because of this unpleasant existence, humans had constant incentive to improve, secure, and progress, and therefore that hard wiring is unlikely to disappear any time soon.This has pros and cons.Because of this relentless advancement we have made great strides in science, technology, and medicine.  We are without a doubt the most advanced creatures on the planet, and likely the universe.  And the problems of our poorest are blessings the richest would kill to have only a short 1,000 years ago.But the cons come in when this unstoppable force and desire to advance and progress runs into the unnecessary and unneeded barriers society constructs for political purposes to regulate and restrict itself.  This then causes great confusion and frustration in people as they try to advance, but society's institutions just won't let them.Take for example the current labor market.There is no shortage of labor, let alone educated labor.  The urge to constantly progress and advance is so strong people are forcing themselves to jump through insane hoops required by employers, getting MBA's, master's, and any number of credentials to put as many acronyms on their resume.  There are no jobs, of course (once again for stupid political reasons society self-forces on itself), so this massive energy of human intention sits unused.  But this energy actually doesn't sit unused.  Akin to the law of physics, this energy has to go somewhere, and it does.It pushes the frontiers of business and employment to psychotic and petty levels.Employers no longer care whether you can do the job (which, when jobs were plentiful was all that mattered).  No, because the economy is weak and the human spirit cannot turn off its hard wiring, there is now a surplus of highly-trained labor.  This switches the focus from ability to progressively less and less important, and MORE and MORE PETTY qualifications.Do you play well in the sandbox? Do you have a facebook account we disagree with?What kind of shoes are you wearing?What is your demeanor?Did you participate in CSR, diversity and other government sanctioned activities whilst in school?Take the "Personality Profile Test" to see if you're an ENTJ or an ENTP! And it doesn't stop with the petty and childish questions of HR.If lucky enough to be employed in today's economy, you will quickly find out your ability to advance is not how well you do your job, but how well you play ball on the progressively petty antics foisted on you by office politics.  Did you donate your time to the local Kiwani's club to hand out business cards?  Are you getting your MBA (of course without company sponsorship)?  Did you smile when you walked into the office today (not joking, had a former boss point out I wasn't smiling).  Are you avoiding the use of apostrophes when writing?All of this pettiness being a testament to the fact that corporate America has ran out of ideas in that it cannot come up with new industries to employ this excess energy and must diffuse it with psychotic and petty games.Another example is women's studies. If there was any low-hanging fruit to flesh out in this newly-formed discipline, it's already been picked.  Women, one can argue, were oppressed in society in some manner, and a women's studies department was a natural consequence.  But in this already-faux field, whatever genuine advances were to be made, were made very early on.  Still, this doesn't prevent millions of ill-reared children from declaring it as a major, and thus, once again, with a surplus of human intention and energy the field must "advance" or "evolve."A perfect example of how this institution accommodates this is the continually increasing sub-divisions of sexuality.  The aforementioned link only covers a fraction of the different sexualities that are out there, but one example that came to mind (and I could not find) was a girl's profile on the internet which cited no less than 5 different sexual orientations she had, the phrases of which used to describe these orientations were DEFINITELY academian in nature.  Regardless, the fact "women's studies" has evolved to the point it creates whole new sexual orientations, or to catalogue the most obscure of human phenomenons, shows the institution has run its course and offers nothing of further tangible value to society.  But with millions of 20 year old girls, with billions of labor hours, intent on majoring in the field, the "field" must occupy them with worthless make-work somehow, and thus the productivity of their efforts become progressively diminished.And finally, consider government regulation.  The US got along just fine before the EPA, the Department of Energy, and the Department of Education.  Laws were set up and established at the state, local and federal levels, and the country managed to become the richest, most powerful nation in the history of the world.  But all it took was one "seed generation" of professional activists, bureaucrats, and regulators to increase the code and laws to a strangling amount.  Was there a call for regulation in the banking industry?  Sure.  Was there a call for cleaning up rivers that caught ablaze as companies dumped their waste?  Sure.  But after 50 years these apparatchiks cannot turn it off.  It is human nature to constantly advance and evolve.  And so bureaucrats, DNR officials, environemtnalists, and activists are always on the hunt for further regulation and further evils to combat, even if there are no evils or calls for their progressively petty (and destructive) regulation.There are other instances, but you get the idea.In every aspect of American life, in every corner of our economy, and in every branch of government human effort is not being used to its fullest potential because those institutions have become corrupted to the point they are no longer productive, and thus there is no economic expenditure or use of said effort. And try as you might, and have the greatest intentions you might, and have the CAPACITY to deliver, it will all be in vain, because in the eyes of the overlords that command these institutions the marginal utility you provide is not via something productive and legitimate, but political and petty.You could stop the housing bubble from crashing, but you didn't kiss enough ass at the last meeting.You could build a pipeline and bring thousands of jobs to the oil sands, but that would harm the economy.You could be that much-needed computer networker we need, but you remind the HR ditz of her previous boyfriend.You could get your degree in 2 years, but then you wouldn't be forced to employ all those liberal arts doctorates with worthless prereqs.It won't be until we destroy the petty, pathetic, vile and political incentives that put a cap on our human effort will this human effort translate into economic growth, advancement and prosperity.  In the mean time, this effort will remain unused and fester, driving most people insane as theyendure another mindless HR interviewfill out unnecessary paper work to get approval from the cityfight another false law suit by the Sierra Clubhave to go $250,000 in debt for their MBA, CFA, and doctorate in financeand jump through other completely fucking pointless hoops society has deemed necessary to foist on itself.Until that point, I suggest you don't bang your head against the wall.  I suggest instead you enjoy the decline!  It just doesn't pay to play according to society's rules.  
How Running Can Trick Your Brain Into Thinking You Have Agency 
"Agency" is a word Mr. Aurini taught me (among many others).  It not only refers to an organization you might work for, but also means purpose or usefulness.  It also happens to be a mandatory requirement for all men to attain happiness.If a man doesn't have agency or purpose in life, he becomes depressed and lethargic.  Sometimes even suicidal.  Just look at what happens to men after they retire from a successful career.  Many, at best, go through a funk.  Others get angry, irritated, depressed and don't know what to do with themselves.  But forget men who are lucky enough to have a "successful" career.  Consider young men today.Most young men today have had the three main ways they can attain agency denied to them:Career/providerHusbandFather And this was done largely at the hands of women (and lefty pansied men) who voted in government to supplant men in these roles.The economy is shot and offers no employment opportunities (let alone something as idealistic as a "career") as it is no longer focused on the private sector and growth, but rather wealth redistribution and supporting out parasitic classes.Becoming a husband is becoming impossible as feminism has turned the quality and caliber of women into this.And without a wife, let alone a career, it's pretty hard to become a father.  Oh sure, men will inseminate women.  Sure, they'll breed.  But they won't raise a child or spend time bringing the child up.  Besides, that's now the job of state-run schools and divorce courts.So there sits about 2 full generations of young men, full of capacity, full of potential, laying idle and twiddling their thumbs.  And just as government has supplanted their roles in society, these men have turned to video games, booze, drugs, porn, even crime to replace women's.But drink all the booze you want and save the princess a million times, in the end your genetic hard-wiring will take over.  And no matter how much you fight it, you will get depressed you have no career, you have no family, and you have no future.  The environment is hostile to men's nature and it is an uphill battle to find agency and thus happiness.But may I make a suggestion?  It doesn't solve the underlying problem, but does, in a sneaky way, provide men with a substitute for agency.Start running.Running is a way to trick your brain into thinking you have agency.  In the darkest days of my life I would get up and literally be incapacitated.  I could not move.  Not because of neural damaged, but every choice, every action I had available to me led nowhere.  So why choose any of them.  It had no purpose.  And so I laid there on the couch, getting up to get food or go to the bathroom occasionally.  My frontal lobes knew, however, this was not a viable long term plan.  I had to do something, but with no career, no desire to meet girls, and no (at that time) obvious entrepreneurial opportunities, I did the only thing I could do.I ran.Not that I hadn't ran before, I always knocked out 3 miles every other day to keep in shape.  But now I was running to kill time.  And so instead of my short 25 minute run around Lake of the Isles, I was running 10 miles, everyday.  I'd return home and for once I felt completely normal.  I wasn't sad, I may have even felt like going out that night to an old haunt.  But soon the endorphins wore off and I was back to incapacitation.Time for weights.Understand at this point in time I was so defeated I also wasn't eating much.  I had dropped from 150 pounds to 125.  But, add the running and weight lifting, I was ripped.  Not an ounce of fat on me.  I could bench press 180 pounds and knock out 150 push ups non-stop.  But I wasn't lifting weights to get ripped.  Matter of fact, I LOATHED lifting weights.  It was the "normal" feeling I wanted after.  I refused to do anti-depressants and so weights it was.Sure enough, after an hour or two, I was feeling "normal" again.Ideally this would last me into the night at which time I would pop two sleeping pills to knock me out to the real world.  And sure enough, my internal organs would not fail me, and I would wake up the next day to start the whole miserable process over again. This lasted about a year, but inevitably things turned around.  When a recruiter called me I was drunk and went into a rage, tirading against the banking industry and how I wasn't baby sitting "dumb, mother fucking, middle aged bankers who can't do Excel."I got the job.I had self-taught myself salsa and ballroom dancing.My dance class revenues tripled.And though I hated every second of lifting weights,girls were throwing themselves at me.Then one day (ironically listening to this song of all things-have to get to the 55 second mark) I all of the sudden realized something - I was happy.  I had created my own agency despite society's best efforts to deny me any.  I was getting up to do things in life, not merely to run.Since then, of course my running and weight lifting has tanked.  I only knock out 6 miles every other day.  I lift weights, but only do enough to keep in shape, and my girlfriend is an outstanding cook, nursing me back to 150 pounds.  But I will never forget the role running (and lifting) played in my overcoming that depression.  Not because it made me feel normal, but because it didn't make sense at the time why it did.  But in hindsight I now know why.Running or any exercise directly stimulates the lizard part of your brain and tricks it into thinking you have a point or purpose in life.  When you are exercising your hindbrain is thinking, "We must be doing something productive. We must be hunting mammoth or toiling in the fields.  We are being productive.  We have agency." which then continues to have your various glands produce various hormones and chemicals that make you feel good.  Of course you don't have purpose.  YOu don't have agency.  And once you stop working out your frontal lobes that are acutely aware of this fact take over, sending you back to Cameron-ville (Ferris Bueller).  But for that hour of working out and the two hours after that your brain and body are given the much-needed "normal feeling" you need to get through the worst bouts of depression.Now, is every Millennial male and young Gen X man in the throes of a crushing depression?No, of course not.But they are without agency or purpose, and they are in a hostile environment that will never provide them the opportunity to have those things.  This will at minimum put most young men in a funk and lessen their quality of life.  But this does not have to be the case.  All a young man has to do is start running (or working out).  This won't guarantee a job opens up.  This won't guarantee a career becomes a possibility.  And it certainly won't turn women today into the Sophia Lorens and June Cleavers we demand.  But it will, on a subconscious, cave-man level trick you into thinking otherwise and make it much easier to enjoy the decline.  
How the Net Present Value of Effort is the Cause of Intimidation, Procrastination and Fear 
My Jewish Agent in the Field contacted me laughing at the other end of the phone. She said, "Cappy, you're not going to believe this!  I was at the doctor's office and ran into one of your fans."  She then regaled me with the tale of randomly meeting a young 23 year old man who was a regular reader of me and the rest of the Manosphere.  However, while he was an avid reader, he was basically an academian.  A theorist.  He "knew" what he had to do, but still had problems approaching girls.  Matter of fact, the words my JAITF used was "afraid of girls."  I told her to have him contact me and that I'd solve his problem for a small fee.  Rewind 18 years ago.A female friend of mine had a crush on a male friend of mine.  I did what I could to set the two up, but despite many rendezvous, he never asked her out.  For the next six months she verbally pined about him to me.  Wondering how to get him to ask her out.  To the point I got sick of it and told her, rather bluntlly, that she was pissing away more calories of energy worrying about it and would have had a better life had she just point blank asked him out.  She took my advice to heart, was about to call him up and ask him out, but THEN CRIED IN THE FEAR AND ANTICIPATION, and bailed at the last minute.Fastforward back to today.Millions, nay, HUNDREDS of millions of western women claim they want to diet.  And hundreds of millions of western women attempt new diets every year.  But nearly 95% of them fail, invariably going back to eating shit and using their .000004 mile "power walk" or "I used the stairs" as an excuse to stuff their faces with icing-laden cupcakes.  They only end up like the fan my JAITF met or the female friend of mine back from college - failures knowing what they have to do, but somehow never having the gall to do it.So let me explain what is happening here amongst all three, because while we can all stand here and ridicule them, you, me, and everybody else have this "want to, but seemingly can't" hypocrisy about us.Understand that in the case of my "fan" my JAITF met, it wasn't that he was intimidated by asking that one girl out at the bar.Understand in the case of my friend back in college, it wasn't the she feared rejection from my male friend.And understand in the case of most fat western women, it isn't that they feared they wouldn't lose weight.It boils down to the "Net Present Value" of effort."Net Present Value" or "NPV" is a financial concept that takes a string of payments in the future and asks "what would be the value of all those payments in the future if they were converted into a single payment today?"So for example a mortgage.  You have to make monthly payments for 30 years.  Well, considering inflation, interest rates, cost of borrowing, etc., what would the "single payment equivalent" of those payments be today?But we can take this financial concept and apply it to the psychological world.  And when we do we make some great realizations that can benefit us all.  Because when you askthe noob kid to start approaching girlsthe fat woman to lose weight, ormy friend to finally ask the guy outyou are not REALLY asking thenoob kid to ask out that ONE girl, orthat fat woman to forego ONE meal, ormy friend to ask that ONE guy outyou are asking them to change their behavior FOR THE REST OF THEIR LIVES.  You are asking them to essentially take on a part time job they never wanted, because human nature is to be lazy.So for example, when you tell a fat woman to lose weight, you aren't asking her to refuse that ONE cupcake.  You're asking her to refuse ALL cupcakes into the future AND demanding she take on what is a vertiable part time job of working out everyday FOR THE REST OF HER LIFE.And when you tell that fearful 23 year old kid who is "afraid of girls," you aren't saying, "approach that ONE girl and suffer the rejection," you are saying, "You must COMMIT yourself to a life of rejection, dismay, and wasted labor attempting to get girls."And that is why the "Net Present Value" of effort is such a deterrent.  Because when you're asking people to make life changesbe it weightapproaching members of the opposite sexbecoming educatedphysical or mental improvementyou aren't asking them to "tweek" something, you're demanding they dedicate a significant percentage of their free time, their free will, and their conscious life to achieve the goals they want.It is here I can appreciate and feel a bit of empathy for our overweight women, our timid men, or our basement dwelling nerf-herders.  They are expending very little effort and energy. They are minimalists in the sense they are willing to forego the demands and desires society places upon them, so they can live a VERY simple and existent life.  But, human psychology and darwinism being what it is, it can't just let that poor soul be.  It still needs to foist natural, sexual, achievement, and agency desires on humans, and so they are torn.This is why my female friend was crying at the prospect of approaching a man.This is why women get so emotionally upset if you dare to point out men just don't like fat chicks.This is why a man will talk shit about approaching, but rarely do, and when they do, take personal umbrage when shot down.The trick or the solution to this crippling and pre-programmed psychology is a simple one:Realize if you don't make these changes, you WILL forever be condemned to failure.Do I like lifting weights for an hour every odd day, and running 6 miles every even?No.Does any guy like approaching women, opening their mouths, and hoping something witty comes out in the hopes they might get laid in the long run?No.And do women (let alone ANYBODY) like passing up the great and awesome food that is sure to tempt us this Christmas?No.But if you don't, and constantly succumb to the immediate desires and fail to achieve delayed gratification, you will forever be:that fat overweight woman nobody wants to fuckthe nerd who sits in his mother's basement and never gets laidor the addict/alcoholic that never says no and dies early because of liver failureIn short, you must realize it was never your choice to begin with.  You need to commit to these part time jobs.  You need to commit to the effort to stay in shape, suffer rejection, and put yourself out there.  The only other option is not to participate and wonder, dream, and opine what life would have been life if you had.  And that life of regret is the worst one you can possibly live.  









Why the Parasite Will Never Be Bigger Than the Host 
Despite the general decline of western civilization, I try to find what morsels of joy and happiness where I can.  Of course, this means giving up my dreams and replacing them with alternative and inferior sources of joy, but when your dreams were never going to happen anyway, the alternatives' feasibility actually make them superior.For example schadenfreude.Oh, I'm accused of being petty, but I enjoy watching the single moms of the world whine and complain about how hard life is and suffer a crippled life.  It's the least bit of joy I can extract from their situation for them voting for the government to supplant men's roles in society.Another example, the education bubble.All those kiddies who were "so smart," and "so independent minded," and "knew what they were doing" only to end up unemployed, financially crippled with student loans, and their egos smashed into a wall because life didn't turn out the way their ass-kissing teachers told them it would.  Again, it's the least bit of joy I can extract from their situation for them voting en masse for Barack Obama and the destruction of the United States.There are other examples, and it does take quite a bit of pondering, thought, thinking things through, even meditation, but I believe over time people will come to learn to "enjoy the decline" like I have.  However, to help accelerate this epiphany in others, perhaps I can provide a little bit of "back of napkin economics" that with mathematically show you something about the leftist parasites of society that will provide warm "revenge fuzzies" and a morsel of schadenfreude joy.Namely, the parasite can never get larger than the host.I alluded to this before in my "12 Year Problem of Socialism," which in a nutshell says that even if the left got its way and decided to confiscate all the wealth of "the rich," the absolute MAXIMUM amount of time they could survive would be 12 years.  But I came up with some additional calculations that will show you the parasites of society will rarely (bar political connections) ever live lives better than the hosts.Of the roughly $67 trillion in wealth all American's have the "rich" (top 20%) are estimated to have $50 trillion of it.  Let us magically say we confiscate this andstock prices don't plummetthe rich don't hide assetssociety doesn't collapsepeople show up for work the next daythe electricity still runsIt won't, and the country would immediately go to shit, but let's just idealistically assume like only academians can.That $50 trillion will have to be spread across the 260 million remaining Americans that aren't part of the 20% (and some of whom also happen to be children).That is $192,000 per man, woman, and child, NOT in the upper 20%Naturally, this does not make any of you hard-working people feel any better.  $192,000 is certainly likely more than you make.  But here's where the revenge comes in:It's a one trick pony.This isn't $192,000 per year, it's a ONE TIME PAYMENT that would have to last the rest of people's lives.  Once such a confiscation of wealth occurred NOBODY in their right mind would dare to work so hard even again.  Therefore, assuming the average person is going to live another 40 years or so, that is a whopping $4,800 per year. $4,800 a year is not enough to solve the problems of the poor.  And it is likely not enough to raise the average socialist parasite's wage to match or exceed yours. But if there is a source of revenge it is not so much the fact this $4,800 is not enough to raise the parasites to a standard of living on par or in excess of yours.  It's the fact that the $4,800 is not going to be enough to solve the core problem of the parasites:Stupidity.Understand that the vast majority of poor people are poor because of their own damn stupidity.  Yes there are some where medical problems befall them.  Yes there are some where something statistically bad happens.  But the vast majority of poor people are poor because they had kids they couldn't afford, majored in stupid stuff, got in trouble with the law, did drugs, or just plain chose not to work.  And no amount of money, let alone $4,800 can solve stupid. This stupidity, and the fact it will forever cost the individual more than the $4,800 subsidy can offset condemns them to a miserable life.  Do you really think Peggy Joseph is enjoying her life right now?  How about the trailer trash methed out mothers in Wyoming?  Their male idiot counterparts crippled with a truck loan for a Dodge Hemi-Diesel and three DUI's?  Take whatever parasite you want, chances are, even with the taxpayers' money, they are still living inferior lives to yours.Finally, if you really think about it, it isn't even the incurable stupidity of people and their consequentially condemned lives where you get your warm schadenfreude fuzzies.  It's the consequences of stupidity - namely, insanity.Take a look at this video and ask yourself what kind of a mental hell all the people, bar the security guard, must live in.  Can you image day in day out what they must go through?  The pinnacle of their lives being "welfare check day?"  Let alone what they miss out on in life?  Do you think the parasitic classes ever get to go to a great jazz club, appreciate Victor Borge or find the entertainment in a movie like "High Society?"  Do you think these people have a good ole fashioned Norman Rockwell Christmas that is sane, quiet, enjoyable, and loving?  Do you think these people have any kind of friends and conversation that would stimulate the brain more than the drugs or booze they're doing?There is none of that for these people.  There is the ghetto, there is the trailer park, there is the barrio, replete with perpetual poverty, day time TV shows, illegitimate pregnancy, shitty parents, a constant battle with the cops and no hope for anything greater in life.  They'll never eat sushi, never visit Glacier National Park, and they'll never have any accomplishments or feats to point to in their lives.  They won't start a business, won't start a (successful family), they'll never climb mountains, and they'll never bike across Europe.  If there is ever a crushing revenge you will have on the parasites that insist on living off of you, it's that you will have not squandered your one shot, your one fleeting opportunity to perform in and enjoy this universe, while their lives will not only be insufferable, but inconsequential, irrelevant, and completely wasted.  
Politics Isn't Art 
Jorge Gonzales, artist extraordinaire and artist for the cover of Bachelor Pad Economics is a 23 year old young man who about a year ago was looking for my advice and guidance.  He was a recent graduate from an art school in California, he could not find work, but saw my video series on "Crusaderism" and just about feinted because I had described what he had experienced to a T.The "High School Vegan Kid," the political leftist indoctrination of college, worthless professors, and the lies students tell themselves about why their "cause" is more important than they pay (even though they were now $120,000 in debt).  But what I found to be most interesting in our interactions was how, when he was describing various projects and art work he and his fellow peers created, that every piece, every bit of art had to have a "story" behind it.  And not just a story, but a political story.I found this odd, thinking that "art should just be art, what does politics have to do with it," but oh how foolish I was.  For, as Jorge explained, you can't just have a piece of art, you need to have some kind of political motivation behind it, a political story behind it, so you can convey your feelings or explain the plight of some oppressed group or another.  It didn't make any sense to me, and matter of fact, I don't think it made any sense to Jorge, but after sitting down and thinking about it, my brilliant misanthropic and cynical mind came up with the answer like it always does:These people aren't artists.  They're your typical lazy 20 somethings who:Have no talentHave no work ethicWant to avoid rigor and real work at all costsStill want to become artists anywayBut in imbuing politics with their art they can use it to rationalize in their little minds that they are indeed artists.Realize the role politics plays in art.  It isn't to "improve" art.  It isn't to "enhance" art.  It is 100%, completely for the *COUGH COUGH AHEM AHEM WHEEZE WHEEZE SUPERLARGEAIRQUOTES*"artist."First it masks the fact they aren't real artists.  You're looking at a pile of dog shit with a GI Joe figure stuck out of it and the leftist dolt-hack of an artist tells you in made-up esoteric language how it shows in "inner-hatred America has for its tyrannical oppressors that blah bitty blah blah blah."  But realize what happened there.  In a very subtle and cunning (even unconscious I'd say) stroke, the "artist" redirected the focus from art to a "message."  You are no longer thinking "wow, this art is shit both metaphorically and really," but dedicating your frontal lobes to the message.Second, it feeds the ego of the "artist."  In having some noble leftist politic message or purpose to his/her art, they think that somehow that compensates for their utter lack of talent.  Could my 3 year old draw that?  Doesn't matter, it's "real art" because it portrays the plight of migrant workers who have to learn English to fill out their welfare forms.  Did my dog wipe his ass on the carpet, smearing his feces in a pattern identical to the crap I see up at the Walker Art Center?  Doesn't matter.  That painting was done to help raise awareness of the discrimination overweight women suffer in today's beauty-obsessed culture.  In short, substituting a noble cause for a lack of talent helps the talentless artist rationalize wasting $80,000 at art school and 20 years of their life making crappy art.Third, it serves as a shield.  The most common tactic leftists use is to take a noble or innocent entity or cause and hide behind it as they use it to rationalize the theft of other people's money.  Teachers do this every day holding the precious children hostage for forever increasing bloated baby sitter salaries and artists do the same thing.Did you criticize the painting of the black man urinating on the crucifix?Then you hate blacks!  You're a racist!Did you criticize the sculpture of a woman having sex with a donkey?Then you hate women!  You're a sexist!Did you criticize the pile of cat shit smeared on a picture of Ronald Reagan?Then you hate the poor oppressed child slave laborers of Gabbitygoo, Costa Rica that the feces OBVIOUSLY represent because you lack the vision and interpretation skills to see what this true work of art obviously is!In other words, having a political message attached to a piece of art allows the artist to deflect any genuine criticism of his ability as an "ism" or "ist." And finally, money.  Notice how ALL of the art pieces have a leftist connotation?  A leftist political theme?  What, you thought the government and the NEA would give money to a conservative artist?Government/public/non-profit money is pretty much what makes the art world go around today.  Not the real art.  Not the stuff being auctioned off at Sotheby's for $40 million that people willingly buy.  I'm talking the crap we get to see everyday in architecture, community centers, local crap-museums, and academia.  Heck, you can't even get a building built in St. Paul without a required minimum amount of art from local artists (look it up, not joking).  But understand what is really going on here.  The art community, just like those "evil" bankers, just like those "evil" insurance companies, just like any other lobbyists, forces the innocent population to pay for their shitty and unwanted hobbies.  From $50,000 drinking fountains to lord knows what else is out there, artists are constantly building leftist-theme pieces of art to get more grants, more taxpayer dollars, more of your money so they can play "make believe I'm a talented artist."  This not only shows you why most public art sucks, but why there is an obvious surplus of talentless artists and why they are all leftist.There is good news however.  Time.You see, time is the ultimate judge.  And over time the political cronies that voted to buy some talentless hack's art will die.  Those talentless hacks will also die.  And when the next generation of hacks and artists come in, they will say, "Why the fuck do we have a statue of a woman fucking a donkey in Minneapolis' City Hall?"And slowly, but surely, all the government-art, and, consequently, all the life works of the talentless leftists artists will be thrown away and end up in a landfill, right where it belongs - with the rest of society's garbage.In the meantime people will still insist on seeing the Statue of David, Michelangelo's paintings, and pay $40 million for a Pablo Picasso.  
For Depressed Conservatives and Libertarians 
Any doubt about the future of the United States and the direction the country was heading was quickly eliminated in the election of 2012.  Most of us were hoping the first four years of the Obama administration was a fluke in American history.  That his election was only possible because of a childlike naivety on the part of an ignorant electorate.  That the voting public, temporarily star-struck, opted to vote with their emotions and not their heads.  And that after four years of the worst economic performance of any president since FDR, people would wake up, grow up, realize the error of their ways, and vote like mature adults the next time around.Unfortunately most of us were wrong.With the election of 2012 the American people have made it very clear which path they wish to take the United States down - socialism.  Whether cognizant of this fact or completely ignorant about it, it doesn't matter, people voted the way they did.  They could still be fawning over President Obama like a teenage girl or Chris Matthews.  They could be the typical voter who votes for socialism because it sounds "nice."  They could be the galactically ignorant soccer mom who believes no amount of other people's money is too good for her children.  Or they could be fully informed socialists knowing damn well what they're doing confiscating other people's money.  The reason why doesn't matter, all that matters "is what is."Of course "is what is" is a devastating blow to lot of conservatives, libertarians, freedom-lovers and what I henceforth refer to as "Real Americans."  Not just because politically or ideologically "our team lost," but because our entire lives and all of our futures are now in question.  Understand that you, me and everybody else who loved America, believed in America, and loves freedom grew up under some basic assumptions.   And not only did we grow up under these basic assumptions, we based our lives and our decisions around these premises.  We assumed the United States would continue to be the freest country in the world.  We assumed we would be able to keep the lion's share of our income and wealth.  We assumed hard work, innovation, and efficiency would be rewarded.  We assumed if we worked hard at something our dreams could be realized.  In short it was all that made America not just great, but the most successful country in the history of the world and we poured our hearts and souls into these beliefs.Unfortunately, with these basic premises no longer certain all of the work, effort and time we put into our lives, and therefore our futures, are also no longer certain.  Did you attend college to become a doctor?  Well too bad, you may have wage controls with Obamacare.  Did you work hard to become an engineer and create something?  Too bad, we may have to confiscate your income at a 60% level.  Did you have dreams of starting up a motorcycle shop?  Too bad we're going to regulate and tax it out of existence.  Were you planning on marrying a nice girl?  Too bad, feminism has destroyed the quality of women.  Did you want to have children? Too bad the state will raise your children.  Did you want your children to have a better life than you?  Too bad, your generational peers voted to mortgage your children into financial slavery.  Say, nice sizeable 401k plan you have there!  Too bad, we're going to nationalize it just like Argentina did. The end result is EXTRAORDINARILY depressing.  Not only is it increasingly likely you've lived your life in vain, but you've lived a significant percentage of your life in slavery.  Worse still any dreams you had are becoming rapidly impossible.  And even worse than that is without your dreams there's nothing you can uniquely achieve that would define you.  In short your life has no meaning.This epiphany, whether consciously realized or not, obviously takes a devastating toll on all Real Americans.  Anecdotal though it may be, everyone I personally know is more depressed today than they were a decade ago.  I know more than one rugged individualist contemplating suicide.  And there's no shortage of old men I know who MEAN IT when they say, "Thank god I'm not going to be around to see this country collapse!"  The entire population of Real Americans is defeated emotionally, psychologically and spiritually.  With no purpose or future they are simply asking "Why go on?  Why continue?  Why did I work so hard?  What is left to live for?"But dire as the situation may be, there is some hope.  Genuine hope, not the hope that is found in presidential speeches and pablum.  Hope that is practical, real, and will yield results.  However, this hope comes from the only place real hope can come from - within - which means we have to focus on ourselves and what is within our control to realize this hope and capitalize on it.  This isn't to say that the world will turn out all roses and dachshunds, nor is it going to be the "faux depressing type of hope" akin to when your mother would say, "Well at least you aren't a cancerous, Ebola-infected, starving, blind quadriplegic, leper living in war-torn Ethiopia with lice!"But at minimum this book will show you there is a future, you can live a happy life, the left will get their comeuppance, and no matter how bad it gets, there is always a way to "Enjoy the Decline." 
Just a Mustard Seed of Doubt 
If you are a true and genuine Christian (or any SINCERE and LEGITIMATE religious person) the following post does not pertain to you.If you are a family member that wants to maintain some facade of "Goodie Goodie Jesus Rah Rah Yea" then you may not want to read ahead.For the rest of you intrepid intellectually honest intellectuals, let me tell you a story.If you want to know where my wit and cleverness comes from, it comes from one person and one person only:My Uncle Jeff.Jeff was like me.  Small, skinny.  But while growing up I noticed he was INCREDIBLY quick, clever, and even charming.  It wasn't until I became a student of Victor Borge did I realize what qualities and traits both had in common.  And so from the age of 13 or so, I fashioned myself after Uncle Jeff.This decision sent me on the trajectory that landed me here today and is (what I would boldly guess) is why many of you tune into my blog/podcast/whatever.  I'm not the same ole same ole.  I come up with the occasional witticism.  And above all else, I'm a little bit smarter than the average bear.Thank my Uncle Jeff for that.Sadly, Uncle Jeff contracted cancer at a young age.  Fight it as he may, in the end he lost and died in his mid 50's.  Knowing this was coming and feeling bad I had not spent as much time with my psychological mentor as much as I would like, I drove from Minneapolis to Appleton to visit him at the hospital.When I visited him he was still, without skipping a beat, good ole Uncle Jeff. Witty, clever, and smart.And though we never really had a ton of time together, there was an understanding that he was my uncle, I looked up to him, and maybe he could have picked up a clue or two that I fashioned myself after him.  He was happy I was there, and I was feeling guilty for not spending as much time with him as I would have liked.But, as would be the case with all men facing cancer, death, and mortality, our conversation took a turn towards him reflecting on himself, his life, and his beliefs.  But unlike most of the automotonic-Christians that had visited him before, I wasn't a Christian.  I was the black sheep of the family.  He knew I didn't care about the afterlife.  He knew I was the outlier in the family.  And so, because I had this reputation, our conversation became rather and ironically...truthful.It was there that my Uncle Jeff admitted that deep down inside, despite 50 years of TRULY RELIGIOUS ADHERENCE to the faith and Christ, he really didn't know if he believed any of it.  This coming from a man who was the epitome of devout.  He attended every Sunday.  No doubt tithed.  Donated time and volunteered at the church.  You could NOT be a "better Christian" than Uncle Jeff.But there he laid in the hospital bed, hooked up to an IV, and after half a century of life plus, admitted to me that deep down inside he didn't believe it.I had nothing to say.  NOthing religious anyway because I got rid of religion as quickly as a sailor can get rid of the clap.  But being out of the "system" for 20 years didn't leave me without explanation or thought on the matter.  And so I told my greatly-respected Uncle Jeff what I thought."You don't know, I don't know, and nobody else knows what's on the other side.  But I'll tell you this.  It can't be anything great, grandiose, let alone horrible, and CERTAINLY NOT LONELY because 50 billion people have gone before you.  And you, nor I, nor anybody else is special."I don't know if it did anything to assuage him, but based on the smirk I got, I like to think it did.  That where some guy nailed to a cross, and 50 years of unsubstantiated lies, and an entire religion without empirical proof FAILED to provide one of its most devout followers solace, an asshole heathen with a bit of streets smarts, cynicism, and elementary logic succeeded.Within a month we were at Uncle Jeff's funeral.  There in attendance was the preponderance of good Wisconsin Synod groupies including everything from my former-pastor father, to nazi concentration camp Lutheran teachers, to a hypocritical brother who conveniently finds "god" every time he lands in jail, to all the "good Christians" in SWPL goodie-2-shoes Appleton.  And my stomach churned as I saw the pastor officiating the event show picture after picture of Uncle Jeff, hidden in the background of various church photographs "proving" Uncle Jeff was indeed a good Christian.There is no doubt my great and awesome Uncle Jeff was a good Christian.There is no doubt that my Uncle Jeff was one of the best people to walk this planet.But if there is a lesson to take from Uncle Jeff it's that deep down inside that the VAST MAJORITY of you Christians (as well as all other religious folk) KNOW for a FACT it is allBULLSHIT.I am at a point in my "philosophizing" where I no longer care about arguments, facts, truth, statistics, etc., as much as I am the MIND-BLOWING ability of the average human mind to IGNORE AND REFUTE said things.  That I am flabbergasted as to how much time, effort, resources and money childish human minds will KNOWINGLY go to defend an FACTUALLY WRONG AND ERRONEOUS system.Fuck "allegiances."Fuck "social networks."Fuck "fear of ostracism from society."How can ANYBODY believe in such poppycock as religion?The simple answer is, "they can't" and "they don't."It's all a fucking show for superficial reasons.Networking, familiality, tribalism, survival, you name it.  In the end it is just an elaborate version of "the emperor has no clothes."And thus, I wanted to plant that mustard seed of doubt.  Because I know, I KNOW FOR A FACTEVERYSINGLEONEOF YOUhave that doubt in your heart.And based on the quality and caliber of most "christians" I see today, you fail, EPICALLY against my Uncle Jeff in terms of sincerity, penitence, honor, and self-reflection.Thus relegating your "religion" into nothing more than a god damned social club.Enjoy "hell"...that is of course assuming you ever really, truly believed it in the first place. 
When People's Lives Are Beyond Repair 
A common comment I get about my books, even my classes is "if this had only been around 10 years ago." Or "if I had only read this when I was a kid."  It's a nice compliment that I take kindly and know that while my various literary works may not be able to help "everyone," it will help those that it can in the future.Contrast this with a much less common comment I receive, though I still do receive it - that my literary works are largely only beneficial to young men without children.  Men who aren't divorced or don't have alimony to pay.  And that if you're a single parent, with student loans, and didn't save for retirement and are rapidly approaching 50, my books are pretty darn worthless.While the two comments may seem different, they are essentially the same thing.  The only difference is the person making it.If you've made mistakes in your past (intentionally, unknowingly, or not) and realize and admit you made said mistakes, you are the type to say, "Wow, where was this book 20 years ago?"  However, if you made some of those exact same mistakes, and then say, "Well, this book is worthless, how is it supposed to help me," then you are the type of person who has yet to fully realize the consequences your mistakes in the past and still lingers out for hope that there is a solution.And I am here to say, "Sorry, I'm not a miracle worker."Because of what I believe to be an overly optimistic media, public school system, and especially movies, Americans (of all political stripes) have been led to believe that "the good guy always wins."  That "no problem or threat is so great, it can end you."  Or that "no problem is insurmountable and there is always a solution at the end that will save the day."And I am here to tell you, "sorry, it just ain't so."  It is VERY POSSIBLE that you make such critically bad decisions that you will permanently screw up your life, to which there are no solutions.  And there's nothing you, nor I, nor anybody can do anything to solve it.For example I eviscerated this woman who went $163,000 into debt to get a "Design" degree.  Not so much for that action in itself, but in her plea that "congress or Barack Obama" (read you and me) "do something about this." (she has since made it clear that she does not want a bail out so please do not harass her anymore).  But she exemplifies the point of somebody who made disastrous decisions and now vainly looks for a solution, to which there is none.  Sadly her life is f*cked.  She has no other option but to pay the price and endure it.Another example are teenagers who get pregnant.  Their brains, only about 75% developed, are incapable of fully comprehending just how thoroughly and fully they've destroyed their lives.  But worse, pickled in an environment of "single mom heroism," "the youth are our future," "you can do anything you want," and other public school/media feel-good BS, they overestimate themselves, their position in society, and their future capacity for success.  This not only prevents them from fully assessing their real situation in life, but more often than not leads to them making even MORE life-crippling decisions (eg. the "empowered single mom" who goes further in debt, whilst at the same time outsourcing her child to daycare, so she can get a worthless degree that will not improve her employability)Cite as many examples as we want, the point is that people can make such horrendous decisions that they are beyond help.  They are beyond repair.  There is no possible solution or recovery.  Their lives, their one shots at life,  are literally ruined, are literally over, and their only option is to suffer their remaining days on this planet in misery.  The question is whether they come to terms with this reality or they vainly and futilely search for a solution that does not exist.  Whichever of the two they choose, I don't care.  But for the Patron Saint's Name of Frick, don't DEMAND other people come up with solutions to your impossible-to-solve problems. 
Learning to Loathe the United States 
An interesting and intellectually honest observation I had about the United States was that I never got to experience what I presumably loved about the US.  This made me realize I was being a bit hypocritical, because the US I experienced was anything but the US I was fighting for.The US I loved was what I saw in television and was taught to me (either through parents, school, media, etc.). It's history, winning WWII, the nuclear family, truth justice, gallant country westerns, dashing heroes like James Bond (I know, British), John Wayne, Robert Mitchum, beautiful women like Audrey Hepburn, Sophia Loren, Doris Day, not to mention its entertainment culture be it jazz, comedy, fashion, etc.  But that version of the US died around 1965 and I was born ten years after.  The US I got to live in was practically the opposite.Destroyed families, divorce, Volker Recession poverty, hideous 70's music, fashion, and entertainment.  Harlots and sluts for female actresses and vocalists, masculine women, effeminate men, spoiled rotten children, bullies and bitches, idiotic teachers, increasing taxes, recessions, bubbles, and prisons masquerading as schools.  And let's not forget a selection of women destroyed by feminism, bigotry against white males, a progressive credentialism that ensured your youth was wasted, bogus careers with false promises, and never ever coming close to achieving the American dream a la the 1940's. No, the two were actually quite different and it forced me to conclude something.I hate the United States.  I loathe it.Not the idea of America.  Not the ideals the country was originally founded on, but what it has become and consequently the US I get to live in.It's basically a decadent, dependent pile of spoiled rotten human filth. This isn't to say there aren't good people in the US or that there aren't good aspects of the US, but what me, you, and everybody else has to do is wake up and realize is that the country no longer represents the ideals and ideas it was founded upon.  While we naturally surround ourselves with people we like, we have to realize that in doing so we bias our perception of the country.  And therefore while you play poker with fellow conservatives, libertarians, and self supporting people and think most people are hard working folk like you, you don't realize that the majority of the population are parasitical, have no desire to be honest hard working Americans, are brought up/brainwashed to hate the country, hate people who work hard and are successful, and whose purpose in life is nothing more than to live off of you.If you step back, clear your eyes, and take a fresh look, you can see this "real" United States for what it is and realize this is what you've had to live in and endure:Lena Horne vs. Madonna vs. Miley Ray CyrusDuke Ellington vs. Kanye WestJimmy Stewart vs. Matt DamonDwight Eisenhower vs. Barack ObamaWomen with decorum and class vs. feminist brainwashed arrogant lippy bratsStrong, independent men vs. wimpy, simpering obedient, emasculated "men"Powerful classy cars vs. EPA compliant boxesTraditional architecture vs. minimalist crapThis vs. thatDon Rickles vs. Margaret Cho I can go on, but how can anybody champion such crap?  How can you advocate the US in its current state?The truth is you can't.  Not unless you're one of the losers that is populating the new America.  And so I'm done.  I never got to experience a Andy Griffith Mayberry lifestyle.  I never got to come out of high school with a job waiting for me.  I don't know what it's like to have a population that wants to work with me, instead of villainize and live off of me.  And I've never walked downtown to see every man and women dressed their best as they presented themselves in public.  It's not that I'm 'sick of it,' I already am.  I'm just no longer fighting for something that isn't.  The US is not ideal.  The people that populate it have no desire to bring it back to its former greatness.  And the hell if I'm fighting for something that I've never gotten to enjoy. 
The Truth Industry 
Working in the financial services industry sucks.  While you would think it is a viable career, an industry that is vital and necessary for the economy (and it is), it has been overrun by incompetent morons, charlatans, and politicians.  It's why the dotcom crash occurred, it's why the housing bubble occurred, it's why the Fed is debasing the currency, and bar a parasitic class, it is the number one reason the country will collapse.  I am incredibly thankful I'm out of it and have the career I do today.But what is that "career" precisely?Blogging guy who writes the occasional book?Social media guy who blogs and charges for advertising?Schmoe who wakes up at 11AM and screams at the internet?It's amorphous and hard to define, but after much contemplation and thought, I finally realized what me and all the other blogger/podcaster/youtubing people are in the various spheres of the internet:The Truth Industry.Oh, claim I'm being grandiose and thinking highly of myself, but that really is what our industry is - the truth.  And if you think about it, that is precisely the product we offer.  The irony of course is how this industry even formed and, even more so, to whom me and all the other people who work in the truth industry owe our new-found careers.  For if you think about it, we owe our success to (by my estimation) 8 groups of people.  These people have allowed me and hundreds of others to sleep in till 11AM, work from anywhere in the world, tell our bosses to shove it, have 100% freedom in how we work, and, above all else, given us a monopoly on the largest and most untapped market.  These 8 groups are:Socialists/Democrats/PoliticiansFeministsParents Who DivorceAbsentee FathersWimpy Fathers (those who stick around, but are emasculated and not real men)Public SchoolsThe Mediaand the University SystemAnd the market they've kindly handed to us on a silver platter are:Delusional people who they've all lied to and are now desperately seeking the truth.Permit me to explain.There is the real world.  This world is based in reality.  And governing this real world are not only physical and scientific laws, but hardline economic and social laws that cannot be violated:Everybody needs to workMen don't like fat chicksWomen like strong, manly menThe nuclear family is the best unit to raise childrenSpecialized skills are in higher demand etc.The closer people or a society live by these rules, the better and more successful their lives will be.  And over the eons humans have slowly reversed engineered these social laws and incorporated them into society either through actual law or passed-down "wisdom."But what if somebody wanted to circumvent these laws?  What if somebody was lazy or unethical and wanted to profit off of society?  Well, they'd simply realize that the real world is very tough, sometimes, not fair.  Heck, the real world is brutal often times.  So an unethical/evil person would capitalize on these unfortunate facts of life and lie to people telling them what they WANT to hear, and not what they NEED to hear:You don't have to work for a living.Fat is beautifulYou are oppressed and entitled to other people's money.You are not responsible for your own mistakes Etc.And these lies are perpetrated on society by the aforementioned 8 groups of people.Socialists/Democrats tell people lies about not having to work for a living, not having to carry their own weight, and are masters at seeding division and hate among racial, sexual, and religious lines.  They are also masters at concocting the most outlandish rationalizations such as "social justice" or "racism" for what amounts to nothing more than theft.  Anything to keep their voting block ignorant, impoverished, and therefore the socialists in power.Feminists love nothing more than lying to women about the nature of themselves and men, because it prevents them from having to expend any effort in life.  Work hard to stay in shape?  Work hard to get an IT degree and support yourself?  Work hard to support a family?Hell no!Better to claim you're beaufitul, smart, intelligent, and independent *just the way you are* as you bloat over 300 pounds, major in and therefore offer nothing of value to society, and by consequence need constant taxpayer subsidy from the government.  Meanwhile in your path lay millions of dysfunctional men and women completely clueless about what the other wants in terms of attraction, love, support, career, and family.Divorced Parents are also wonderfully deluded people.  Lying to themselves and their children that "you're the number one thing in our lives" when their actions prove anything but.  Piss-poor selection in mates resulting in completely dysfunctional families and damaged children.  Now we have two full generations of children brought up with a damaged concept of family and marriage which not only ensures their lives will be handicapped, but their childrens' lives as well.  But remember, divorce is "empowering" and 40 is the new 30 and the grass is always greener on the other side.  Besides, your spouse was such a bastard/bitch that your children are WINK WINK *much better off* now that you're divorced.Absentee Fathers/Wimpy Fathers are also complicit in the lying.  Either too lazy to stick around to raise their own kids or so influenced by feminism they just "assume" mothers and feminists know best, they relegate themselves to wage mule, rarely, if ever, dispensing the real world advice their children need.  Of course, this assumes they had real male wisdom in the first place, but it is more likely they are spineless kowtowing wimps, rarely asserting their authority and telling their children the "harsh truths of life," because like a tail-behind the legs Ray Romano, that might rock the boat.  And so their sons grow up to be the pansified, weak, timid men their fathers were, replete with a female-only rearing that is sure to feed them to the meat-grinder when they reach adulthood.  The Public Schools are also masterful liars.  So good are they, they are better called indoctrinators.  Working in tandem with the socialist parties of different countries, they train youth not to think, but to obey and vote more power to the state.  They fool young children into thinking the real world owes them a living just by the fact they were born, and also use any propagandist tool they need to advance their political aims - rich are evil and unfairly advantaged.  You're "privileged" if you're of a certain race or sex.  Boys and girls are the exact same and there are no differences whatsoever.  Global warming, etc.  Even if you did have a strong father in the housebold, he simply cannot fight the lies and propaganda teachers feed his children 6 hours a day, 9 months a year.The Univeristy System is merely the public schools v. 2.0.  But this time instead of being told lies for free (well, on the back of taxpayers anyway), the children get to pay tuition and cripple their financial futures doing so.  Again, the leftist lies continue, but the university system advances the ratioanlizations and conspiracies to ludicrous and idiotic levels.  CISgendered, the cabal of "privileged" categories, 1 in 1 women are raped every week, you name it.  Things that would be laughed at with 50's common sense are vehemently defended and insisted upon by faux-accredited professors in the most fabricated of studies.  Worse, though, however, is the biggest lie told to the youth - that they are going to go on to become something great.  Nay, they are entitled to go onto to do something great.  That "Masters in Zombie Studies" is going to pay off big, and if it doesn't it's George Bush's fault.  But before we blame George Bush, better get your doctorate just for good measure.And finally, when the youth are no longer under the government auspices of the K-College industry,  there's always the Media to keep the lying going well into adulthood.  Confirming that there is global warming, Miley Ray Syphillis is a female role model, fathers are bungling idiots, and chicks can become the 110 pound "Round-Housing-Kicking Chick Cop."  And let's not forget the hundreds of billions that is spent keeping women deluded.  Madonna is still hot, cougars and MILF's, you just need this new creme, 50 Shades of Grey, and EPL mind-porn fantasies. Whatever lies are necessary to keep people's egos from getting smashed are told by the media, hopefully until the victim dies of natural causes.In the end, you have what I would estimate to be a full 60% of an economy dedicated to deluding, lying, propagandizing, deceiving, and misleading the entire population.  PLaying off of everybody's desires and innate preference for leisure over labor, the aforementioned 8 entities aim to profit off of these natural human weaknesses.  Moral or not, supportable or not, the aforementioned groups of liars don't care.  They're making their money and will destroy the country if they have to, and they're succeeding on both fronts.But there's just one problem.Did you noticed how most of the effort and lying these groups do are aimed at children and youth?  That most of the lying occurs early on in a very despicable and evil way as they're targeting the children?  That's not by accident, it's done on purpose.  Children are easily brainwashable and once you instill lies into their minds, their minds and mental structure grow around it, making the resulting adult mind almost impervious to reality, and consequentially, deluded.  This is merely economics as the "Lying 8" know an ounce of brainwashing early on prevents a pound of propaganda later.  However, targeting children is also their biggest weakness and this is where the Truth Industry comes in.What happens when the children leave the University System?From there on out the Lying 8 heavily rely solely on the Media to continue to brainwashing.  But post education, their victims are no longer under their educational auspices for 8 hours a day.  Worse still, no matter how many lies and how much government money go into keeping up the facade that the real world doesn't exist, the real world does in fact exist, and the kiddies are at least exposed to it on some levels.For example the labor market.All those "independent minded, open minded college students" that majored in English?  What the Lying 8 told them was that they were going to make $60,000 a year teaching English in a warm foreign country.  The real world tells them they're going to work for $7 per hour serving coffee while still being unable to pay off their student loans.   Another example, the dating/courting market.All those empowered 20 something women who put career head of humans, family and love?  They're now 35 and "finally" ready to settle down after they got their masters and their certifications and want to start a family in the next 40 seconds because that's what they scheduled.  The Lying 8 said they could simply snatch up a husband at this point, but the real world now delivers them the crushing blow that most men would not touch them as they're too old, not wife or mother material, and are instead chasing after their 25 year old baby sister.Marriage?Remember the Lying 8 told men they just had to be sensitive caring 90's type guys with great personalities and a decent income.  No, don't work out. No, don't lay down the law.  Good lord, no, don't be a man.  Women will respect and marry you if you're kind and caring and obedient.Well, they'll marry you, but the real world will quickly show you she won't sleep with you. However, she WILL sleep with the guy whodoes work out,who does lay down the law,and is actually a man.THat's the real world.We could go on, but in short the Lying 8 cannot keep up the facade.  Their false world starts to unravel because it has to.  It's not sustainable.  Divorce goes up, children become dysfunctional, Detroit files for bankruptcy, Millenials fill up the unemployment line, men are fat, women get lip, and everybody is sexually frustrated.  The empiricism builds up to the point the victims of the Lying 8 are completely confused.  They did "everything they were told."  Believed in every one of their sweet-tasting lies.  And when life does not turn out the way the Lying 8 said it would, the sheeple are forced into one of two things:Cognitive dissonance or accepting reality.There isn't much The Truth Industry can do with people infected with cognitive dissonance.  No amount of reality, empiricism, data or statistics will convince them.  They have become so emotionally and psychologically vested in the Lying 8's lies they are beyond hope.  They live out the rest of their lives as the basement dwelling troll, the embittered feminist with her cats, the political activist who never gets promoted because of their lack of connections, or the corporate cog who gets divorced and pays alimony to his ex-family that hates him.  They live the rest of their lives wasted, progressively and increasingly becoming more wedded to something as stupid as an ideology, religion or politics.But there is something The Truth Industry can do for those who genuinely seek out the truth and have the capacity to admit they may have been brainwashed.The young man who inevitably gets so fed up doing what "women told him to do" when chasing girls and dares to try different tactics.  He then lifts weights, doesn't return calls and calls women on their BS.The hen-picked husband who has enough and decides to Lester-Burnham up and start laying down the law.  Tells his wife she's fat and needs to lose weight, otherwise there's the door.The young female college graduate who realizes her degree isn't making her an empowered woman, and there are no quality suitors pursuing her.  She then majors in STEM and hits the treadmill and starts to ponder whether having kids is all that bad.Whoever it is and wherever they are, people who have the intellectual honesty to sit back and say, "There's something wrong here, something is off, is it possible I missed something and I am wrong?" are the people The Truth Industry can help and serve.And let me tell you what a joy it is serving them.When they find "The Manosphere," read up on economics and finance, or however they find it, 100% of the time they always say, "THANK GOD FOR EXPLAINING THIS TO ME!  I THOUGHT I WAS THE ONLY ONE WHO VIEWED IT THIS WAY!"  The Truth Industry takes away the confusion and the psychological torture of not being able to explain what's going on for literally 3 decades in people's lives and for once explains the lay of the land, the reality of life to them, so that they may not waste the next 3 decades of their lives.  My consulting arm, "Asshole Consulting" has prevented more than one young soul from majoring in a stupid degree, selling his soul to a soulless corporate employer, or wasting their lives "being nice" and instead told them to hit the gym.  And the blunt, impolite, directness of The Manosphere has helped save easily thousands of would-be marriages for men and women (and subsequent children) from being the trainwrecks they were fated to be had people merely listened to the Lying 8.  The Truth Industry is undoing the brainwashing the Lying 8 has perpetrated on generations, saving people from wasting their one and finite lives and waking them up to the lies that they've been fed since cognizance.But the best thing about The Truth Industry is not the irony that our adversaries made this all possible.  It's not that without these evil vile scum we wouldn't have been here and otherwise would have had boring cubicle jobs.  It's that the Lying 8 can't do a damn thing about it.You see, if the Lying 8 wanted to nip The Truth Industry in the bud, it would have basically sacrifice itself.  It would have to admit it was wrong the entire time, it had an ulterior motive, a political agenda, which ultimately means it would have to admit they were lying and abusing society for their own profit.  They would have to admit they were selling sweet lies and in the process destroying lives all for personal financial gain.  And if they were to do that, they would then face their worst nightmare - they'd have to get real jobs and actually work for a living.No more pontificating professorships.No more "professional activists."No more "non-profit champagne sipping fund raisers."No more benefit laden political careers.No more "won't somebody please think of the chillllllldreeennnnn." They would actually have to work and toil like the rest of society.And that prospect scares them more than the amalgamation of spheres on the internet that constitutes The Truth Industry.In other words, we here in The Truth Industy have life-long employment security.  The Lying 8 will continue to lie to the children, the youth, and the susceptible.  Feminists will still lie to women about fat being beautiful.  Socialists will still lie to their parasitic constituents about victimhood.  Teachers will still lie to their students about global warming.  Divorced parents will still to their children.  And the Media will still continue to lie about...well...everything.And I sincerely hope they do.  Because I don't ever want to go back to banking or real job ever again.  
The Importance of Controlling Your Micro-environment 
A funny thing happened to me whilst driving both ways through Utah.  While listening to the radio or my podcasts about the outside world and how liberals in DC were doing X, the socialists at the UN were doing Y, and feminists in academia were doing Z, right there in front of me was the most beautiful scenery on the planet.

And while Michelle Obama was spending millions of our tax dollars taking her and her daughters on a whirlwind trip to China, there I was talking to Alvin, the proprietor of my favorite fossil and rock shop in South Dakota.  And while more accusations in North Minneapolis were made about white privilege and economic justice, I was sitting with two of my best friends in Vegas smoking a very smooth and tasty cigar. Slowly, but surely, over the course of my 2 week wild-west road trip, this juxtaposition between what I heard on the radio/podcasts versus what my eyes saw and what I was actually experiencing brought forth to my frontal lobes another important epiphany:The importance of controlling your micro-environment.Understand that although your "macro" environment (the government we live under, the economy we endure, the culture we're born into etc) has a profound effect on your life, your "micro-environment" has a much larger and determining effect on you, your life, and your happiness.  And the reason why is simple - you personally interact with your micro-environment more than you do you macro environment.  Thankfully, your micro-environment has an additional advantage over your macro-environment - it is nearly 100% under your control.  Ergo, while there isn't much you can do to about the idiot Millineals voting in an anti-American socialist into the presidency, there is a lot you can do to ensure such idiots play no role in your personal life whatsoever.These facts about the micro-environment (let alone realizing there is one) is often underappreciated, and therefore, undercapitalized by most Real Americans.  They, naturally and logically, focus on the general decline of the US, the destruction of their culture and the demise of the former-greatest country on the planet.  However, if people were to step back, clear their eyes, and take a look at their lives, they'd soon realize that for all the dire news they hear in the media, practically none of it affects their daily lives.All the Marxist hyperbole of "privilege" does nothing to change the fact you're still employed and current on your mortgage, while those who constantly invoke "privilege" are still dead-last place in society with student loans, a worthless degree, and no future prospects.All propaganda about "global warming" may drive up your taxes and costs, but in the end you can still afford infinitely more sushi and martinis than the unshaven, dirty, and impoverished "professional" environmental activists.All all the whining about race, class, gender, ethnicity, etc., will not change the fact that regardless of your color, you made the right choices in life, didn't get/get somebody pregnant before marriage, majored in the right thing, and never have to live in the ghetto, section 8 housing, or send your kids to some crappy inner city schools.There is certainly more, but if you take inventory of your personal life and your micro-environment you'll soon see that no matter what happens at a national level and what leftist, hate-filled vitriol is spewed by the media or academia, in the end your life is infinitely better than most others simply because you are better than most others and you surround yourself with people who are also better than most others.Your friends, for example, increase your standards of living more than most tax cuts because they provide engaging conversation, safe reliable friendship, don't deal drugs, and genuinely hold your friendship in high esteem.  The same cannot  be said for "friends" dealing meth in the trailer park or crack in the ghetto, constantly landing you in trouble with the law.Your neighbors, again, higher quality people who keep their yards tidy, respect your property rights, and keep quiet at night.  They also are likely to vote to keep local taxes low and the majority of money in private citizens' hands.  The same cannot be said for denizens of leftists communities who are looking for more bike paths, community centers, and other forms of wealth transfers while keying your cars, graffiting up the hood, and rioting like feral animals.Your lovers play a vital role in a superior micro-environment.  Always hotter and sexier that what most leftists tend to offer, not to mention they tend to be more mentally and financially stable. The proprietors and businesses you patronize are part of your micro-environment providing you superior products, superior food, superior entertainment, and superior service.And while "society" may demand the likes of Miley Ray Syphilis, nobody says you have to listen to her or her subhuman musical filth, permitting you to listen to jazz, engaging talk radio, or the(*COUGH COUGH AHEM AHEM*) world's greatest podcast.In short, bar fiscal and monetary policy, nearly every other aspect of your life is within your control.  And as long as you don't majorly screw up, insist on making the right decisions, and surround yourself with quality people, your life will forever be superior to those on the left no matter how much they try to improve theirs at the expense of yours.  Better yet, your life will be your ultimate revenge as it will forever burn a hole of envy in most leftists' hearts.  They'll never be able to attain what you have, thereby relegating them to villainizing and mocking it. 
There's No Such Thing as Greed, Only Theft 
In my economics class I tested my students' ability to not just regurgitate what I told them, but see if they can take what I taught them and start drawing logical economic conclusions.  To do this I asked one rather difficult question:Why are stock prices going up faster than earnings?It is a difficult question, but of the many guesses I get, the most pluralistic one is:"greed."I have to temper my immediate ire and remind myself of the innocence of that answer.  Nearly nobody has adequate education in economics, and nearly everybody has misinformation and propaganda fed to them by state schools.However, the prevalence of that answer only indicates just how widespread leftist indoctrination has become and it's time to explain greed as a means to undo this political brainwashing.Understand there is no such thing as greed.  There is only theft.In other words the only REAL form of greed is when somebody steals something that is not theirs.  That act - stealing - is the only behavior that can truly be considered greed.What the left has managed to do is change the meaning of the word "greed" to mean "not sharing enough of your wealth, income, profits, resources or time with other people."  The problem is "well, how much is enough so that the person is no longer considered 'greedy'?"This puts us on a slippery slope, and was done so quite intentionally by the left.  Because since there is no objective standard as to what is "enough" this leaves it up to the interpretation of the person accusing somebody of being greedy.  And no doubt, almost always this accuser isa leftist,and the answer to "how much is enough" is always"more."The problem is this cowardly tactic by the left does not adhere to reality in two ways:Morally and mathematically.Morally, nobody has to share jack with anybody else.  The reason is simple - that person gave up part of their precious and finite life to get what wealth and income they have.  Ergo, when you are asking somebody to "share" you are literally saying, "become my slave for part of your life so that you may work up the money and wealth to give to me."Doesn't matter if that person earned a trillion dollars.Doesn't matter if that person uses diamond spoons.Doesn't matter if that person has 30 mansions.It accusing somebody of being greedy, and thereby implying they should share, you are in PLAIN ENGLISH telling them to be your slave, albeit for a limited time.The second way the accusation of greedy doesn't work (from a leftist standpoint) is the "how much is enough" component.  Not one leftist, NOT ONE can answer the simple question:"How much is enough?"When it comes to the public schools, there is never enough money.When it comes to welfare, the poor, and the elderly, there is never enough.When it comes to the children or global warmer, there is never enough.The reason why is that leftists are by their nature lazy and never sit down to calculate how much money would be necessary to finance their demands.  They are emotionally driven, parasitically even, to constantly demand more and more and more and more and more (matter of fact I intend on doing a little research project where I am going to contact various political parties and ask them what their economic plan is, namely what their goals are and what are their financial plans to attain said goals - I already know NONE of them, Republicans included, will have said plans).  It doesn't occur to them that there may be limited funds, and even though we're already spending around 40% GDP, I do not doubt for a second that if asked they would demand 2.5x's or more than what is currently being spent.The larger point is that the accusation of "greed" is the perfect weapon for leftists because it provides a reason to take other people's money and allows them to take as much as they can as there is no objective standard or adherence to reality governing what is "enough."  And so as long as somebody just "thinks" said person has too much money (be it a kid whose brother found $40 or an adult whose neighbor makes $400,000) they can make the accusation of "greed" just as they "racism" on equally flimsy and intellectually dishonest grounds.The key is to ignore the accusation knowing deep down inside you are neither a thief nor a racist. The Sickness that is Coming 
One of the more important epiphanies I had was that age doesn't matter when it comes to leadership and capabilities.  Sure, you would think older people are wiser, but as I've aged I realized that in fact, no, they're just older.  They are just as dumb and incompetent as people half their age.While it took some daring and bravado to make this epiphany when I was 30, it is only reinforced as it is now my generation that is approaching 40 and will be viewed by today's 20 somethings as the "wise elders who have their act together."  The modern day 20 something does not know what I know and does not see what I see in my 4 decades old peers - that they're the same idiots and morons they were back in the 90's when they were in their 20's.  They did not mature, they just got older, and really have no clue what they're doing.But if we were to extrapolate this trend, one where generations don't mature, never grow up, and never change, just merely get older, the country is in for a world of hurt.  For while I can't believe people in my generation are heading up companies, working their way up the corporate ladders, or are educators and teachers in our schools, what's coming down the pipe is scary - a mentally infected or diseased generation.When I say "infected" or "diseased" I mean I look at the kids today, especially of college age, and realize they have a genuine mental condition.  We can all laugh and mock them citing examples of entitlement, weakness, and idiocy, highlighting stories where they demand free education or have their parents attend a job interview with them or Pajama Boy's latest antics, but these are merely the symptoms of a much larger and threatening sickness.  One where nearly an entire generation is incapable of understanding other people's rights, freedom, and property.If you look at college students and 20 somethings today an unacceptable number of them lack the mental ability to respect the rights and freedoms of others.  There was the student journalist that wanted to ban conservative opinions on campus (I forget the name and the school).  There was Donglegate where Adria Richards thought it was her domain to get two guys fired, which is only one of the increasing instances of Mozillaing.  And there's more than one instance where some idiot adult child will claim we need to ban conservative talk radio.This trend, however, is not so scary because of what these people are doing, but because they are unconsciously doing it.  They are unconscious of what they are saying.  And they are unable to fully and thoroughly think through the consequences of advocating such things.  What's worse, however, is the disease is further complicated and entrenched in the minds of young people by a historic amount of brainwashing and pampering.  Be it the trillions of dollars in debt accrued to prevent said people from paying the full price of their socialist utopia, the 20 years of brainwashing they received from K-college, or society and their parents bending over backwards to kiss their asses, all of this shields these kids from the harsh and necessary realities of life.  This not only results in adults who are incapable of supporting themselves, completely clueless about how the real world economy works, but worse it convinces them they are entitled to everything in life.  This lays the ground work for what is arguably the most despicable aspect of this mental condition - victimhood.From the ever increasing categories of "privilege" to the left's desire to separate and define people by their skin color, an entire generation has been trained to take traits they were born, fool themselves into thinking they are oppressed because of it, and demand other people slave away for them.  This is not only cowardly and hypocritical, but it also attaches an emotional element to the disease where they take personal affront to any attempts of constructive criticism or insistence of self-supportation and production.  In short, it renders the host with this disease immune to any attempts to cure them.You combine this altogether and what you have is a group of people who:1.  Are not able to support themselves2.  Lack the mental ability to understand the sovereignty and freedom of other people and3.  Therefore lack the ability to protect freedom while voting4.  Are trained to find insult in everything and view themselves only as a victim5.  Are not capable of logical and intellectually honest thought6.  Who are instead ruled by emotions and self-pity7.  and are therefore uncurable and beyond reason.Add to that, that generations really never grow up, just get old, and you can see why this sickness is such a threat.People infected with this disease will act and vote in a way that will destroy the liberty and freedom Western Civilization spent the last 2,500 years trying to build.  You may say, "well, that's why we have the Constitution.  That's why we have the courts" or "that'll never happen."  But what if these people were to become the justices?  What if they were to become the politicians and leaders of this country?  A piece of paper or the foresight of our founding fathers to have the division of powers cannot stop an entire population that is mentally sick and impaired.  And instances such as Brendan Eich and Dartmouth caving to the demands of a sick person, already shows you the lack of US institutions to stop and fight this sickness.What will "end" this sickness, however, will be an economic collapse wherein there is no more government money to keep these people supported in their current environment.  Life-long college students come professors will no longer have a university to go and teach at.  The various "professional activists" will have to worry about clean water instead of saving the whales. And professional victims will have more pressing matters like starvation than finding fake umbrage at a Cinco De Mayo fundraiser.  Unfortunately, such a collapse can be staved off a long time with the fed's constant printing of money and the US' relative position of being the "least sucky economy" in the world, and this will continue to provide the environment these diseased people thrive in.  Ergo, not only are they not going away, they're going to increase as the 20 somethings of today become the 40 somethings of tomorrow and by default infiltrate our various institutions.There's not much to do but what we're doing now.  Pointing it out and trying to bring shame to these people.  Alas, their brainwashing is so complete, their sense of victimhood so engrained, and their sense of entitlement so strong, it is doubtful anything will ever get through to these liberal zombies. 
How Forced Entrepreneurship Helps Destroy the American Family 
Entrepreneurship is largely regarded in society as a good thing.  It is the "missing ingredient" Keynesians refuse to acknowledge as they strive to find the perfect balance between unionized labor, capital and technology to increase economic growth.  It is responsible for nearly all the increases of standards of living since the post-Caveman days.  And it is the most surefire way to enjoy a happy and successful career.  There is not much bad that can be said about entrepreneurship.  However, when it is forced, leaving an individual no other option to earn his bread, it can still yield benefits, but it comes at a cost, an opportunity cost to be precise.  And this cost comes at the expense of the American family. To understand this we first need to understand where forced entrepreneurs come from.  And today's economy is as good as any because it is the perfect storm with the perfect confluence of events which breeds (in my humble opinion) more forced entrepreneurs than it ever has before.The first "ingredient" contributing to the rise of the forced entrepreneur is that there is no longer the "life long career."  Historically this laid the foundation to buying a home and raising a family as reliable employment would result in the money needed to afford both.  But with a "30 year, uninterrupted career" as mythical as unicorns, Santa Claus, social security, and pensions, any somewhat savvy individual will know not to breed or buy a house.  However, scaling down in major life purchases does not solve an individual's need for income and so whereas American employers become increasingly unreliable, taking matters into your own hands does not.The second ingredient is with an ABYSMAL labor market and declining economic growth, increasing numbers of young people have to compete for relatively fewer jobs.  This has resulted in not only historic highs of unemployment and underemployment for younger people, but given employers carte blanche to power trip and become increasingly petty in their requirements for employees.  HR ditzes asking job candidates the dumbest of questions, the never ending progressive credentialism, refusing to train people and demanding 5 years experience in software that has only existed for 3 (true story).  However, the real cost manifests itself in the form of petty office politics and the increasing psycho-sadism among employers.  Like the cadre of "popular girls" in high school, employers now instill a work environment that is nothing short of psychological abuse, making their employees' lives psychological hell.  An employee can no longer show up on time, do a good job, and maybe make a recommendation.  No, s/he must figure out and play the office politics game or get rubbed out for good. Such an environment is so unacceptably childish and hostile, entrepreneurship, once again, looks to be a better option.The third ingredient is affirmative action.  Not so much in hiring practices (though that is true), but because affirmative action actively discriminates against the group of people who historically have been most prone towards entrepreneurship - men.  However, in addition to being overlooked for promotion, there is a genuine institutionalized discrimination against men.  From school to university to media to the government to the entertainment industry, nearly every one of our institutions is geared towards women.  But our institutions are also the primary providers of "regular employment" and "regular careers."  Thusly, their preference towards women results in a "crowding out effect" somewhat forcing men out of these institutions and pushing them towards entrepreneurship.The fourth ingredient is outsourcing our industrial economy to foreign countries.  Nothing forces a man into another field, potentially entrepreneurship, when you just outright wholesale the industries that historically employed men in exchange for malls, shopping centers, cappuccino cafes, green consulting agencies, government bureaucracies, and horse hobby farms.Now these variables alone provide a great incentive to give up on the rat race and pursue a career as an entrepreneur.  I don't know anybody who truly likes their job, and nearly everybody would love to run their own business, not so much for the money, but "to be their own boss."  But that until itself would not spell demise to the American family.  Matter of fact, if more people were successful entrepreneurs that might even bolster the American family.  The true threat to the American family comes in the final ingredient to the "forced entrepreneur" - The mandatory and required "10 years wandering in the post-college-graduation desert" (or "TYWITPCGD" henceforth abbreviated).You see, up until you graduate from college, society, government, parents, the schools, etc., is bending over backwards to kiss your ass and tell you what you want to hear."You can do anything you want!  Achieve your dreams!  Follow your heart and the money will follow!  Oh the places you will go!"But while your family and friends tell you this out of a love-blinded naivety, the government, the teachers unions, and your professors tell you this for 100% pure profit motive.  The government tells you these pretty lies so when you get older you vote for more government.  Teachers and professors tell you this, because they profit directly off of your attending school.  But once you graduate from college, you no longer serve any financial or political purpose to these lamprey-like entities, and you are dumped out into the labor market, dumped out into the real world, NOT with an education that has prepared you for said real-world, but one of mush, poppy-cock, entitlement, feel-good USDA grade A bullshit.And this is where the forced entrepreneur is formed.For about 10 years the idealistic college student will live an abysmal life trying to reconcile what he was told the real world was going to be like versus what the real world actually is.  His career will never manifest the way his teachers told him it would, matter of fact (because of the dire economic conditions) his career will never get off the ground.  He will work part time jobs here, overnight shifts there, but MUCH WORSE he will take it personally, thinking somehow he has failed and not that he was the victim of what is arguably the world's greatest scam.  If it wasn't bad enough, add to his immense confusion, psychological pain, and shame that:constantnever-endingnever-relentingnever-ceasingalways-threateningpoverty that follows him around.Worrying about making rent for the month, having to eat ramen well-past college when college was supposed to afford him sushi, not being able to go out, and the terror that strikes when his car needs an expensive repair, it will ensure that this period of his life is the worst he will ever experience.But while this epoch in his life is guaranteed to be the worst, he will learn one very valuable and important lesson from it - minimalism.  And that is the added chemical that forges the alloy known as the forced entrepreneur.After stumbling through the "TYWITPCGD" and getting the harsh life lessons that came with it, he will enter the labor market (if he hasn't already) and be exposed to the aforementioned and unacceptable hell American employers have become.  Landing a "real" job "finally," thinking his financial problems are over, he'll learn that his boss is a psycho-path, his co-workers catty women who like to cause drama, and that any attempts at efficiency or progress are viewed as threats that threaten the status quo which constantly land him in trouble.  His job duties do not match the job description.  And the incompetence that surrounds him ensures he will be that Eagle who can never soar with the turkeys.He'll think it's bad luck, not logically believing all employers are like this, and apply for another job elsewhere.  However, in due time, and after working enough jobs, he'll slowly realize that it isn't just him or "bad luck," but that ALL employers are like this.  And when having this epiphany, he'll realize the ONLY solution is entrepreneurship.There's just one problem.Was he stupid enough to breed, marry, sign a mortgage, and get a car loan?Was he stupid enough to have kids with a spending-addicted woman?Or did his true education from the TYWITPCGD stick?Because a man with a mortgage, kids, a car loan, and a wife can rarely become an entrepreneur.  The man with such familial and financial liabilities is damned to a fate worse than the forced entrepreneur.  He gets to suck it up, suffer the psychological torture and the unreliability of American employers.A man unencumbered with family, debt, and a house, however, can become an entrepreneur.  And given the intolerable work environment of America today will be forced to via self-respect.However, before you get too excited about this person becoming the next Bill Gates, employing thousands and supporting millions of socialist parasites, understand what kind of entrepreneur he's going to be.  Since he went through the hell of  TYWITPCGD he will have been trained to be a minimalist. He will be immune and inoculated against the consumerist marketing industry to buy cars, take on leases, McMansions, trophy wives and credit card debt.  And given the hell he had to suffer when  he made a decent go at the "traditional means of employment" he knows that no amount of money is worth his sanity and freedom.  Therefore, this individual has no desire or incentive to create the next Apple or Standard Oil, but rather only cares to make enough money to get by, effectively turning him into a "Micro-Entrepreneur."This spells doom for some would-be American families.  Not that the American family will be wiped out, or that there aren't millions of indebted wage mules on the hook for 30 years of mortgage/wife/kids payments to ensure its future *ahem* "success," but that there is a significant demographic forming (and I would contend growing) that go through the arduous process explained before and are forced into this micro-entrepreneur role.  But key to understanding why this would have a negative effect of American family formation is to realize it is antithetical to family formation.  Struggling, striving, and starving for a decade after college makes one awfully risk-averse.  Couple that with a declining economy and unacceptably psychotic employers, once one has a path and an opportunity to just a modicum (but self-sustaining and reliable) source of employment, they will abandon family creation for the stability, tranquility and freedom that comes from forced-micro entrepreneurship.  
The Economics of Caloric Return 
I have two buddies.  Both are in their 40's.  Both recently divorced/broke up with their significant others.  Naturally the course of conversation invariably comes around to "you looking to date any girls?"  And the answer is...No.Not out of recency from the divorce/break up.Not out of time to let the wounds heal.Not out of time to get their head straight or figure some things out.The real reason?They're just too damn tired.I don't know about you but when I broke up with/got dumped by a girl in my 20's the very next NANOSECOND it was go find another.  There was no down time, there was no "time to heal," it was an immediate, OK, what lucky girl is next?  But fast forward 15 years and men in their young 40's who recently find themselves single are in no rush to go back to the bar, back to the night club, spruce up their POF profile, let alone gather the courage to make an approach in broad daylight.  They're just too damn tired.The first excuse would scramble to find would be age.  The next would be healing.  The third might be "losers."  And the fourth might be "lack of choice."  But the reality (as we're often finding out) does not lay in psychology or biology, but rather economics.  The real reason they're too tired is one of a cold economic calculation.A cold economic calculation of what?A cold economic calculation of caloric ROI.Recently, I've been giving more and more credence to biology, genetic programming and Darwinism to explain human behavior and decisions.  And when you analyze these thoughts through the lens of economics you start to make some interesting discoveries.  And this is one of those instances.Understand that while money has been used in society for thousands of years, human evolution, genetics and biology has been evolving for 2 million years.  Ergo, while we'd like to think our frontal lobes (the most advanced part of our brain) makes all of our decisions in a logical and rational manner, the remaining 65% of our brain is driven by instinct, survival, and raw desire and still (more often than not) overrides the most advanced part of our brains.  Thus,just because money is a (relatively) recent human creation, doesn't mean the laws of economics and limited resources didn't apply to pre-currency humans (let alone EVERY creature on this planet).  Therefore, even before the grain receipts of ancient Egypt served as the first currency, there was the ultimate currency that has governed all creatures on this planet and is the prime directive the governs 65% of our brain:Calories.Until agricultural advances made food a non-issue, the vast majority of human-kind's experience has been finding food.  Finding calories.  Finding the energy to stay alive.  It's why, despite having adequate food, we simply can't "turn off" the natural, darwinistic, survivalistic desire to eat more.  It's been there for 2 million years (2 billion if you consider us descendants of previous creatures facing the same problem) while adequate agriculture methods have only been around for 300 years.  However, while the main problem with human's genetic programming to maximize caloric intake in a time of plenty is obesity, there is another problem.  On the OTHER side of the cold caloric economic decision is one of expending calories of energy.  Or more so, conserving one's energy.View it from the perspective of an American Indian 10,000 years ago.Tonto has a choice.  Chase after the antelope with his bow and arrow or not.  However, it's not one of whether he'd like to hunt, it's a 100% purely economic decision.  Specifically, is it worth Tonto to expend 1,000 calories of energy to MAYBE get 4,000 calories of energy in antelope meat?  Because if he chooses poorly too many times he won't have an adequate ROI on his caloric investment and will mathematically starve.Naturally, over time humans developed less-caloric consuming hunting techniques that yielded more calories in return.  Traps, spooking buffalo to run over a cliff, guns, and agriculture.  But that still doesn't change the fact that for nearly 2 million years humans have had it beaten into their brains that calories expended damn well better result in a surplus of calories returned.  Again, starvation was the other consequence.Now return back from 10,000 BC to revisit my two 40 something buddies.  They are no longer Tonto facing the decision as to whether they want to chase after antelope.  They are two men who have to decide whether to expend the calories of energy chasing women.  And when faced with the caloric demands of:Going on line for 2 hours a day to "wink" at girlsGo to the night club to chat girls upGo to a "Meet up" group and learn a new social skill (dancing, crafts, etc.)Making approaches 10 times a day not to mention the 8 year vetting process wherein they have to date 100 women to find "one"you can see why they're "too damn tired" and are just shutting down.Admittedly there is of course other reasons as men age they just don't go out clubbing anymore.  They're getting older, a decrease in testosterone, a decrease in energy, the novelty of dating wanes, their 18 year old idealistic naivete about dating expectations was crushed with the drama, flaky, reality of dating, etc., etc.,  But I contend there is a Darwinistic aspect as well.  One where the hindbrain is making astute economic calculations, demanding an adequate return on its dwindling supply of calories and time, and sadly coming to the conclusion that it just isn't worth the chase.So light up those cigars instead,Pour yourselves a glass of scotch that won't "flake" on youAnd head out on the boat and go fish, because the caloric rate of return on those things are 100% guaranteed, ensuring youEnjoy the decline!  
The Common Thread Between Elliot Rodger and ISIS 
A superficial survey of the masses murdering Elliot Rodger and the mass murdering ISIS may only draw one, maybe two common threads.  They're both murderers and they're both crazy.  After coming to this conclusion most people whilst sipping on their $7 cup of lattes in the unaffected suburbs will then continue on their life, more concerned with whether they should pick up a copy of People magazine to catch up on all the pointless Hollywood gossip.  However, as my brain is wont to do, it wanders and thinks during my roadtrips, adventures and hikes, coming up with epiphanies that people stuck in cubicles and rush hour never have the opportunity to.  And my latest great western road trip was no different as I discovered the key thing Elliot Rodger and ISIS have in common (heading south bound on 79 out of Rapid City no less).  And if we take the time to identify it, think it through, we can prevent the likes of Rodger's rampage and ISIS's, even radical muslims thirst for blood.Understand the most powerful force in the universe is not gravity, it's not electromagnetic radiation, and it's not nuclear power.It's the human male.Yes, yes, I know physicists will disagree as to the pure mathematical energy that can be measured, but in terms of what has come under control, managed, and been directed towards accomplishing the most amount of good it is not the non-sentient energies that be in the universe, but rather the human male.It is without a doubt that nearly everything on the planet has been built by men.  Civilization, math, engineering, capitalism, chemistry, literature, surgery, vaccines, nuclear power, electronic, communications, flight, space travel, you name it, men have built it.  Matter of fact men are so energetic they've managed to master and control all the powers of the universe, bending them to our benefit and will, forever increasing the standards of living and life expectancies for all.  This makes men not only the most interesting creature on the planet, but the nucleus and bedrock of society.Where this limitless energy comes from is very simple - women.  Men are programmed to want, desire and procreate with women.  Many men also want to see their genetics cast out into the future in the form of children.  Ergo a loving, beautiful, and loyal wife along with loving children are the batteries that power these amazing machines of innovation and progress.  But wives and children also serve a very vital role when it comes to the issue of men and their energy.  One that puts their role in society on par with the importance of men - they channel men's energy.Channel it to what?Channel it to productive uses.Without wives and children, mens energy has no ultimate point or purpose.  And sadly, just because a man does not have a wife or child does not mean that energy goes away.  It's still there, it just now has nowhere to be invested in nor a purpose to be invested wisely.  And it is here where the dangerous side of men lies.Imagine, if you will, a single man as if he were the plutonium used in the Fat Man atom bomb.  This 6.2 kilograms of plutonium had 21 kilotons of potential energy.  Also know that that energy MUST be expended.  The man is going to burn that energy one way or another over the course of his life.  So what is the best way to expend it?Well, like nuclear power it can be expended in a very helpful way...or a VERY destructive way.The helpful way would be like a nuclear reactor providing nearly limitless energy and power to cities and society.  It can heat homes, power industries, light the night and make life incredibly better for all of us.Or it can be used to destroy and lay waste to society.  Level cities, kill millions, wage war and end human life on this planet.   And now you see the importance of having women and family in life, as well as the commonality between Elliot Rodger and ISIS.Without going into a great and detailed psycho-family analysis of the two, both Elliot and ISIS lacked the guidance, familial structure, and incentive to properly and productively channel their energy.  The guidance coming from fathers who were either effectively absent (in Elliot's case) or dead/brainwashed by Islam (in ISIS members' case), never existed.  Thus, the PRIMARY individual in their lives that would have taught them about how to go about getting a wife and children (their dads) were either not there or so impaired by a religious ideology things like "game" "wooing" and "charm" were never conveyed to their sons.  Without these tools the Rodgers and ISIS's of the world were unable to attract women, denying them wives and families, thus denying purpose and agency to their lives.  Worse still, with no children or loved ones in their lives, they had no incentive to be good stewards of the future, and thus no incentive to channel their energies productively.Naturally, many of you will point out that just because a man does not have a point or purpose in life, does not mean he will use his excess energy for evil.  Why not channel them for good?  Why do you so pessimistically assume men will default towards destruction and evil? And while that is certainly true and there are many examples of philanthropists and altruists abound, the sad truth is that human psychology will typically default towards ego and laziness.  And this is where the Destruction Principle and Crusaderism come into play.  Ever so abbreviating both, understand the human mind wants to belong to something and have SOME KIND of value.  But if either through society, a recession, or a lack of interest from women, etc., no such opportunities to belong to something good and productive exist (a career, a family, etc.), people will go and create it out of whole cloth.  Thus "crusades" that claim to be "helping" society, that are in reality nothing more than havens for worthless, talentless people to give themselves some kind of "faux" meaning or purpose in life:Going green/EnvironmentalismPETABorn again ChristiansAfrican aid/mission tripsFeminismAnti-fracking/Keystone pipeline Etc., Where these "crusades" become particularly evil is on two accounts.  One, participants in these crusades do NOT care about society as much as they do themselves.  They don't care about the whales, they don't care about "the poor," they are doing it first and foremost for their ego.  And whether or not their crusades and their demands actually hurt society (by increasing poverty, lowering unemployment, confiscating other people's money, etc) does not matter to them, because making society suffer (either through higher taxes or lower future performance) is less important than making their egos feel good.Two, in pursuing crusades that are not based in reality, but rather ego-masturbation, they are diametrically put against reality.  This means any success society has had in the past 5,000 years by adhering to reality has to be criminalized and villainized, and ultimately destroyed by these people.  Capitalism, freedom, nuclear families, individualism, success, excellence, men, patriarchy, etc. any pillar of success is one that needs to be torn down.  Thus, the majority of "successes" and "accomplishments" these type of people point to on their resume is NOT one of "building something" or "creation," but rather destroying something, stopping something, or preventing something.Now, this mental disease of The Destruction Principle and Crusaderism is nothing "too" dangerous on its own.  Wimpy effeminate men will join hairy armpitted women on a whole host of whinny and complaining campaigns, voting for socialism, economic justice and whatnot as they join OWS and protest in cardboard boxes.  The worst outcome is they vote for socialism and slowly destroy the underlying economic infrastructure of society.However you add The Destruction Principle and Crusaderism to men who still have testosterone and combine it with a lack of purpose and agency, and you now have the most dangerous and volatile cocktail for young men.  And with nowhere else to go, and no productive use for their energies, these men will not lash out in a form of amazing production and charity, but rather death, mayhem, destruction and terror all in a self-aggrandizing way.  Thus your Elliot Rodgers, ISIS, Al-Qaeda, James Holmes, Tsarnaev brothers, etc. The solution is one that modern day western civilization is not willing to accept today.  We need to put men at the center of society, ensuring they are raised right to ensure their energies are used for good and not evil.  This unfortunately means making fathers head of the household and championing the nuclear family as the bedrock of civilization.  It also means women (if they wish to have a family) will have to actually be wives and mothers first and foremost instead of temporary incubators for human children that are to be outsourced to the state for raising so she can get back to her career as a "non-profit marketing director."Until that time the most powerful force in the universe will continue to go increasingly unchecked and unhoned to the risk and detriment of the world. 
The Underrated Gift of Sanity 
Permit me these examples three.First, the closing of the all-women's college, Sweet Briar.  Sweet Briar last month announced that it would be closing this year.  This was greeted with screams and vitriol, claims dreams have been destroyed, and repleted with threats of lawsuits and protests from current day students, as well as alumni and professorial staff.Never mind the mathematical reality that the liberal arts bubble is bursting.Never mind they have 1 employee per 5 students.And never mind this college runs horse stables, indicating insane financial mismanagement and mathematical ineptitude.Reality doesn't matter to those affected by Sweet Briar's closing.  All that matters is what they were told, believed, and wanted.  And thus these two irreconcilable forces result in grief, anger, confusion, frustration, and stress.Second, "girls hate jocks."Or at least that's what my mother told me when I was a youngin'.  Couple that with the 90's decade long propaganda that women wanted kind, caring, sensitive men, and a generation of boys-now-men expended considerable energies during their teens and 20's pursuing women using strategies that were (in part) based on these flawed premises.The results were entirely predictable - failure.  And not just failure, but failure with the same commensurate grief, anger, confusion, frustration, and stress that is currently plaguing the clueless people of Sweet Briar.And finally, third, "age is just a number."This is a precious quote from a British woman named Patricia who, despite being 64, thought her marriage to a 26 year old Tunisian man was going to last.And why wouldn't she?She was told by feminists, media, professors, and leftist politicians, that 50 is the new 20.  Age and beauty are merely social constructs.  And men who chase after women for looks are not just shallow, but flawed.The only problem is reality did not care what politicians, feminists, media types, and professors told her.  2 million years of human evolution prompted the young Tunisian man to leave her, resulting in, once again, grief, anger, confusion, frustration, and stress.We could go on, but the above three anecdotes point towards a crisis the United States and Western Civilization are slowly, but unavoidably wandering into.  A crisis of a deluded population crashing into the impenetrable wall of reality.How our civilization became so deluded is somewhat complicated, but in hindsight explainable and understandable.  With unrivaled economic success due to free markets, freedom, and capitalism, Western Civilization advanced so quickly that the majority of the economic and biological problems that plagued humanity for the past 2 million years were resolved.  Hunger was eradicated.  Poverty was eradicated.  Even certain diseases were completely eradicated that entirely new ones were discovered because humans rarely lived as long in the past.  This resulted in a spoiled population that never really endured the hardships of true life, and worse, gave people with a lot of time on their hands, even more.Idle minds are the devil's workshop, and go to work he did, for instead of being thankful for a life of ease and ample free time, people's egos got in the way and demanded more.  Now people were no longer satisfied with a good home cooked meal, they sought out the "injustice" of who precisely cooked that meal.  No longer were people satisfied that a rich guy invented a device that allowed them to communicate with people around the world for nearly free.  They were obsessed about him having more money, even obsessed about the color of his skin and the fact he was a man.  And no longer were people satisfied.  And no longer were people thankful for companies that created life saving devices and drugs, but insisted they were oppressed by these engines of innovation for they dared to charge for their services and dared to move to greener pastures.  In short, Western Civilization slid into becoming a spoiled brat, narcissistic, envious society where all that mattered was feeding their ego without the required work and accomplishment that would warrant it.This insatiable desire to feed the ego without the commensurate work resulted in a group of opportunists who were only more than happy to feed society's ego at seemingly no cost.  To do this they created, out of whole cloth, false narratives and religions that the naive masses would swallow whole:SexismRacismClass warfare"Evil corporations""You can't put a price on education""You go girl!""You can have it all!""Lean in!""Empowerment/Raising Awareness/White/Male PrivilegeSingle moms are heroic "50 is the new 20!"and other outright liesWorse, these charlatans put themselves in key points and positions within society effectively allowing them to brainwash and profit off of the rest of society:PoliticiansMediaHollywood JournalistsProfessorsFeminists TeachersActivistsSJW'sNon-profits, andNGO'sAnd so even with the benefit of stable and sane parents, even with the benefit of grounded peers, everybody, and I mean EVERYBODY within Western Civilization succumbed, one way or another, to at least ONE bit of erroneous and false propaganda.  One bit of false, erroneous propaganda that cost them precious years of their lives.Millions of students, brainwashed by public school teachers, wasted trillions on stupid, worthless, and completely unemployable degrees.Millions of children were raised in divorced or single parent homes because feminists convinced women that was just as good an environment as a nuclear family.Three generations of blacks were brainwashed to believe their last place socioeconomic position was the fault of white males, delivering a tragic mentality of defeatism that led to a self-fulfilling prophecy (but at least ensured democrat politicians had life long careers).And three generations of women were led to believe their careers and government checks were more important than the human beings in their lives, only to find out too late upon their death beds that they had wasted their one shot at life (but again, at least some democrat politicians got their vote).We can go on, but you get the point.  Everybody in Western Civilization in one capacity or another, was brainwashed to believe in a lie that just wasn't true.  And even though they may have believed the lie, it didn't change the fact reality doesn't care.  And this conflict between what they were told, what they believed and what reality ultimately delivered has caused nearly everyone untold grief, suffering, confusion, frustration, and anger.But enter two coincidentally timed events:1.  The development of the internet2.  The Great RecessionThe internet is amazing unto itself.  However, it has a unique trait that has the potential to undermine the charlatans and con artists posing as politicians, professors, teachers, feminists, etc.  It not only allows anybody to write anything they want, but it allows everybody in the world to view it.  In other words, the internet side steps the establishment guardians and censors of the MSM media.  This allows ordinary people to expose the corrupt people of our society and hopefully "wake up the masses"as to just how brainwashed they are, and to just what a tragedy is being perpetrated against them. However, people in power do not give it up lightly.  And to protect themselves against the internet they have made it socially, professionally, politically, and economically for anybody to speak directly and bluntly about the truth.  And this "political correctness" is no joke.  With Mozilla, DongleGate, and doxxing, people (primarily on the left) only need to take public statements of a person, found on the internet, tell his/her employer about it and ruin their careers and financial livelihood forever.  Thus, even with a powerful tool like the internet at their disposal, most people obey like the sheep they are and dare not speak what they truly think in fear of losing their jobs.Well...that was until The Great Recession anyway.For while many people have a career or a family to worry about, The Great Recession made it so millions would never have a career and family to begin with.  So devastating and drawn out was this recession nearly 1.5 generations never succeeded much past college, and when you combine its severity with the fact the solution to the recession was to bail out those that caused it, any faith in "authority" or hope in a meritocracy had vanished.  And now an estimated 100 million people not only have nothing to lose, but a hatred for those who ruined their lives.And they've taken to the internet.The red pill, the Manosphere, the alt right, you name it, millions of people with millions of blogs, YouTube channels and podcasts have formed as the only, but growing beacon of sanity, empiricism and reality.  Everyday they highlight and point out the insanity they see, but the rest of the world doesn't as they're too absorbed in themselves and protective of their egos to do so.  And these internet rogues also point out the perpetrators who are responsible for it, profiling and shining a light on the endless list of politicians, feminists, professors, deans, activists, and others who are scrambling to save themselves.However, in being the only bastion of truth, reality and sanity, this part of the internet faces a Herculean challenge.  Decades worth and trillions of dollars in brainwashing and lies have been propagated and incorporated into the minds of millions of people.  So successfully so, that even if you're trying to point out the truth to them, their egos have been so pampered and protected, their response is not only disbelief, but one of rage, anger, hatred, even assault (imagine telling a liberal arts major their degree is worthless, or telling a wimpy, but reliable chemical engineer male most women will pass him up for a drug dealing thug with muscles).  But this daunting challenge aside, it still doesn't change the fact that these people have to face a choice no matter how thorough and complete their brainwashing:Continue to live in your deluded dream world, continue to chase and pursue after dreams that will never be,oraccept the cold harsh reality that reality is.To a sane person the choice is obvious, because there is no choice.  Reality is reality.  By definition choosing not to accept it is delusional and proof of a mental problem.  But if you've been brought up your entire life under lies and propaganda, and you value your ego more than the rest of society and the real world, and above all else, you're an intellectual weakling, you will likely continue to live the lie.But as tempting as it is to stay in the warm, but false, comforts of pretty lies, there is one benefit to "taking the red pill" (as it were) and it's more valuable than all the promises of the charlatans and con-artists.Sanity.Understand no matter what the politicians, feminists, journalists and professors tell you, it's not true.  Their promises and your dreams that were based in them are never going to come to fruition.  So no matter how comforting and ego-protecting it is today, if you believe them and make life decisions based on them, you will ruin your life.  And not just by failing to achieve dreams that were never achievable in the first place, but the sheer torment you'll endure that is caused by the anger, confusion, frustration, stress and grief of living a lie (again, imagine the daily torment people with "Masters in English" are suffering in the labor market or women who believe they could "have it all" are suffering in the dating/marriage market)But if you give up your deluded dreams and accept to live in reality, you get the gift of sanity.  The KNOWING why things happened the way they did in the past, the knowledge of how things are likely to work in the future, and never being confused, frustrated, or angry again.  Imagine if you were told what women REALLY liked when you were 13.  Imagine if you were told how corporate America really worked.  Imagine if you were told about the economic realities of choosing the right major.To have that you only need to give up your dreams.Which is a good thing because those dreams were worthless because they were never going to happen anyway.  
The Truth About Conspiracy Theorists 
In being a libertarian I often run into the faux-libertarian crowd that is largely libertarian because it sounds "cool" or "fashionable."  They usually give themselves away with a few "tell tale" traits, but one of my favorite is whether they believe in "chem trails."  Once you got a true believer in "chem trails" then all sorts of fun and entertaining idiocy soon follows.Fluoride was put in the water to make us all behave!!!Everybody in the military are murderers!!!!The illuminati/bilderberg!!!9-11 was an inside job!!!etc., etc.However, whereas I am largely bemused with the standard fare of libertarian conspiracy theorists, their existence Venn diagrams into the world of conspiracy theorists in general.  And "conspiracy theorists in general" I believe will prove increasingly useful in the future when it comes to understanding politics, economics, and human psychology. Understand everyone is seeking a religion.  And though I may have my disagreements with the world's established religions, at least they call it that.Christians call themselves Christians.Muslims identify as Muslims.Jews claim to be Jewish.And Buddhists claim to be Buddhists.Even the Scientologists have the gall to call themselves Scientologists. The same intellectual honesty cannot, however, be said for the majority of modern day Americans.  Especially, those who "doth protest too much" when they hate on religion.  Leftists, for example, provide the most numerous examples of people who "hate" Christianity, but immediately replace it with equally false religions (global warming, socialism, feminism, activism, racism, sexism, and all various forms of SJWing, etc.).  Atheists, of the quiet variety, are intellectually honest followers of their beliefs, but their closely related "Atheist-cult" cousins who pride themselves on being Atheists (and not much else) again (and quite ironically) simply substituted one religion for another.  And I have also pointed out what I believe to be the latest religion the sheeple are swallowing whole - fake mental illnesses.  According to the CDC 1 in 5 children have some form of mental illness, and according to MedCo 25% of American women are on some kind of medication or another (if you believe that).  However, which is more likely?That high a percentage of the population REALLY has a mental problem?OrThat high a percentage want an excuse so they don't have to try as hard in life/can excuse their failures in life?The larger point is that I don't care what form the "religion" takes, even if its adherents swear up and down it "isn't a religion."  Everybody seeks out a religion.  For it is human nature to find some kind of meaning and purpose in life because without it, it really is hard to find some kind of incentive to live (not to mention most people are too cowardly to face the likelihood they are finite, there is no "afterlife," and they will truly cease to end).The problem, however, with religion, is that it is always based in falsehoods, or at least unknowns.  This is what gives it its "amorphous," "intangible," "religious" qualities.  However, in not being provable, empirical, or scientific, this leaves ALL religions susceptible to misinterpretation, abuse, and, inevitably, self-servitude.And this is where the conspiracy theorists come in.Conspiracy theorists abuse their religion of "conspiracy theories" because they're not only too lazy to think things through, study, and prove their theories right or wrong, but because they also have a bit of an ego and want to think themselves intellectually "superior" or "fancy."  And whereas serious study of any topic, to the point one is well-versed, perhaps even an expert on the topic, will yield legitimate and valid intelligence on the topic, conspiracy theorists are too lazy and too impatient for such empircism, study, and research.  They want validation and faux-intellectual discussion NOW, and are more than happy to substitute outlandish and controversial poppycock for the truth in order to get it.  Ergo, conspiracy theorists don't really believe in their theories, they simply mentally get off on advocating them.This results in a parallel, even some significant overlap, between conspiracy theorists and leftists in their respective religions.Nothing has to be verified.No logic or reason needs to be adhered to.Reality and sanity themselves can be ignored.Because all that matters to the conspiracy theorist is the "shock-jock-esque" controversy he or she stirs up while seeming so much more "knowledgeable" than you ignorant commoners, just as the leftist religious zealot only cares about being made out to be a victim, and thus rationalizing the theft of others (while also snidely accusing you of "ignorance" or "racism" or "sexism" because you dared to disagree with them).Alas, why the "10 Commandments" of these religions are not just insane, but usually outright wrong, and repeated mindlessly as NOBODY ever bothered to cared to confirm their veracity:1.  Chem trails2.  It's the "corporations maaaan!"3.  9-11 was an inside job4.  The rich don't pay their fair share.5.  The Illuminati6.  1 in 5 women are raped7.  The Holocaust didn't happen8.  White/Male privilege9.  Frankenfood10.  Women make only 77% what men do However, there is a price for such ignorance and ego, and that price is the cost that all religions have historically had - it forces non-believers to suffer.  But whereas in the past this suffering largely manifested itself in the prevention of science and all the technological advances that it could have provided to humanity, today it is a sheer attack on sanity, logic, and economics.  And whereas human advancement was halted due to belief in a deity, an afterlife, or simple tribalism, today we are bringing our society's to a screeching halt for things as petty as the:egogreedlazinesssloth, andarroganceof spoiled, Americans and Westerners.Alas, whether it was theSultan rejecting western medical advances for his people.Christians burning "witches" at the stakeFeminists fighting for "fat acceptance" orJenny McCarthy-esque parents rejecting vaccines for their children.All their decisions and beliefs were based in lies.These lies were forced on society through theocracy or democracy.And humanity will pay the price of achieving nowhere near what it could have.And that my friends, is why you enjoy the decline.  
Society vs. The Individual Part 1 
I originally intended this to be a short video, but the more I thought about it, it was so detailed and important, I decided to make it a post.  Then once I delved into the rabbit hole, I noticed it really is a two part post.  Problem and then Solution sort of thing.  Anyway, if you would be so kind as to forward this to anybody you know that would appreciate it or benefit from it, I would be very grateful as I think in these two posts are the PRACTICAL key for improving many people's lives and the condition of the country. The relationship between society and the individual, by nature, has to be symbiotic.  Society is made up of individuals and it would logically follow that strong individuals make up a strong society.  However, over time and under different environments the relationship between society and the individual is not always mutually beneficial.  And if that's the case it's almost always society benefiting at the expense of the individual as the many can conspire against the individual and not the other way around.  It's simply "there's 8 of us and only 1 of you, guess who we're having for diner!" We see this "society taking advantage of the individual" throughout history as well as today.  Mob-rule democracies using government to force individuals to pay for the masses' mistakes.  Religion telling its adherents to donate to the church or burn in hell.  Even the unconscious psychology of tribalism effectively enslaving the individual for the benefit of the commune.  There are many instances where the individual is right, and society is wrong.But aside from the time and monetary costs the individual pays for the benefit of society, there is another egregious cost that is often ignored, but the individual must pay - his sanity.While paying taxes, being forced to donate to a church, or getting beat up because you dared to "act white" and get good grades are clear and identifiable prices the individual pays, in order to keep the individual from going into full revolt or Galt, society needs to brainwash the individual so they don't dare question the parasitic nature of society's relationship with them.  To that end a whole host of lies, narratives, political correctness and propaganda are shoved down individuals' throats to keep them from asking questions and keep them from independent thought.  However, this "brainwashing" is nothing as simple as merely disseminating lies and repeating it enough that people "start to believe it."  It's a masterful, elaborate, and purposefully designed strategy, starting when the individual is all of 4 years old and never ending until that individual is dead and society has used him up as much as possible. But as "masterful, elaborate and purposefully designed" it is, this brainwashing is above all else thorough and incredibly effective.  If I were to estimate it right now, nearly 95% of westerners are brainwashed and believe in what are nothing more than outright lies.  And not only do they believe in these lies, the brainwashing is so effective they have an emotional investment in these lies so that if any of you were to dare question the veracity of those lies, most people would react violently, at minimum, angrily.  However, no matter how emotionally vested these people are in these lies, it doesn't change the fact they live their lives and base INCREDIBLY important life decisions on these lies which results in the aforementioned true price they pay - sanity.The examples are limitless."The Nice Guy"How many millions of men suffered decades of insanity believing the lies SOCIETY told them about what women wanted in men?  Here you have what is no doubt the STRONGEST and MOST IMPORTANT biological drive young men have in their lives and did society tell them the truth about what women wanted?  Did society tell them, "Hey, women want:"A physically strong man.""A leader.""A man who will not be dissuaded or deterred""A provider who can support a wife, mortgage, and children?"No, society LIED to (now three) generations of young men telling them women wanted"A nice guy.""A sweet guy.""A sensitive 90's guy.""A guy who listens."The ultimate end result was a 50% divorce rate, sexually frustrated women, weak, effeminate men, destroyed families, and (now three) generations of men who have ruined financial and romantic lives.  But all of that pales in comparison to the INSANITY these men suffered because they "did what they were told" and had absolutely no success to show for it.  The sheer madness that ensued when you attempted to be successful at what was arguably the most important thing in life, only to constantly fail, but only to constantly be told to redouble your efforts on the same plan is a psychological pain many men can testify to. But still, no matter how much destruction these lies caused or how many men in their 20's it drove mad, at least society (in the form of government, divorce courts, the psychology profession, and feminist intelligentsia) benefited."You Can Have It All"Before we paint men as the sole victims, women have suffered too.  And not in the "glass ceiling" or "wage gap myth" sort of way.  The lies society told women was that "they could have it all" and "you ARE the exact same as men."  And so (now three full) generations of young women went out and instead of pursuing families (like they had for 99.995% of human existence) they believed society and all tried to be:MothersCEO'sDoctoratesPTA officersYoga attendees andRace car driversAnd ALL AT THE SAME TIME NO LESS!And forget the mathematical impossibility of doing all of this effectively with only 24 hours in a day.  The real coup de etat was society actually got women to believe that work is fun or something to be desired! The result, again, is divorce, destroyed families, ill-reared children, regret, and single-parent homes.  However, the true price paid is the INSANITY women have suffered "doing what society told them to do," but being less happy than generations past.Still, it doesn't matter.  Society (in the form of government, feminist intelligentsia, and corporate employers) benefited from increased tax rolls, misery-loving company, and a labor market flooded with new and cheap labor.  EducationIf there's a perfect example of the individual suffering insanity because they believed society's lies, today's labor market for college graduates is it.  For you could not have a more textbook example of thoroughly effective and successful brainwashing than today's Millennial college graduates.Fed spoons' full of lies since kindergarten, today's latest generation actually believed in what their Gen X peers proved wrong - "do what you want and the money will follow."  "Any degree is a good degree."  "It doesn't matter what you get a degree in, it's what you do with it."  Add to that the ass-kissing lie that "they were the future" and these deluded sheeple actually thought majoring in Sociology would land them a job. But sadly, after 4 years undergrad, 2 years in a masters program, another 2 for a doctorate and voting for Barack Obama twice, your average Millennial has $78,000 in student loans, a lousy labor market, no skills and lives with their parents.  Can you imagine not just the insanity, but the terror and fear these poor kids have now that it looks like their lives are ruined forever and will come NOWHERE NEAR to what they were promised? Oh well.  No matter.  Democrats got their votes, academia got $1 trillion every year this generation was in college, and employers now have MILLIONS of new and ESPECIALLY DESPERATE people begging for jobs.  Again, society won at the expense of the individual.CareersAnd finally careers.If you were like me, you too believed the lies society told you about what it took to succeed at a career."Hard work, an education, loyalty, creativity, and innovation!"So there you went, believing the lies, majoring in a hard and seemingly practical subject.  Studying day and night to get that 3.8 GPA.  Going that extra mile working an unpaid internship to "improve" your resume.  Taking extra classes to get extra certifications with random acronyms. ("I got my DPT and my EGS certifications!  But I'm still working on my XKT cert!")  And dancing like a trained dog to perfect your resume, answer HR's frivolous questions, and "score that job."  You may have lowered yourself to reading books on the topic and endured "mock interviews."But sadly, in the end, to be successful in Corporate America you need to lie, cheat, scam, manipulate, even threaten.  You need to be borderline criminally aggressive, preferably a highly functional sociopath...that is of course assuming you're not the boss' son, or performing fellatio on him.  Then you just be you.Regardless, once again, think of the billions in cumulative lives that were wasted by aspiring "loyal corporate men and women" who believed the shtick, sacrificed their families, friends, and lives for a career that was never going to be.  How much insanity did they endure "doing what they were told," deteriorating in 2 hour daily commutes, only to deteriorate more for 10 hours a day in a cubicle, for decades only to never get promoted or get that dream job?Doesn't matter.  Society wins again.  Employers dupe stooges into becoming effective slaves on the cheap.  Governments take in more in taxes.  Banks make a fine profit off of the interest on that house you can barely afford.  And the day care provider industry is only more than thankful you decided to outsource your children.We could go on, but I think you get the point. The moronic yuppie couple trying to afford the McMansion and sports SUV's who believed in the rat race only to benefit society in slave labor, more taxes, credit card companies, and mortgage interest. The impoverished black male who thinks his lot in life is because of "evil white men," when it's his new slave masters he's benefiting, namely Al Sharpton, the police, and the Democrat party.Or the "heroic single mom" who actually believes she's heroic (when in reality she's ruining her and her childrens' lives), but at least she'll fork over the money to Oprah, watch "The View" and vote for more government money.Nearly everybody in the western world believes in, and lives their lives by, lies that society told them to simply take advantage of them.  The lies are very sweet, and often times assuages you of any guilt or responsibility for your mistakes in life (which often times explains the violent/angry response when the lies are pointed out as it is forcing a mirror into people's faces).  But let us be clear.THEYARELIESThey're not true.And if you live your life by these lies, you will suffer because your decisions are not being made in reality.   
Society vs. The Individual - Part 2 
I suggest reading part 1 here if you haven't already.Be you 20, 30, 40 or 50, the point in time will come in your life where you will stop and realize,"Hey, I've lived 40, 50, 60% of my life and I'm still not anywhere near where I thought I'd be."This epiphany won't happen to every one, but for those of you who are intellectually honest and have the intelligence to realize AND APPRECIATE the fact you're finite, you WILL make this observation.  This is a good thing because it's simply true.You are finite.You are going to die.You've likely already expended 65% of your life.But your life hasn't gone the way it was "supposed to." So what do you do to ensure you don't piss away the remaining, precious 35%?Unfortunately, answering this very vital and single most important question in your life won't be easy.  For in answering this question you are going to have to pit the most important thing in your life (your remaining time on this planet) against the single largest and most-well-financed force on the planet.SocietyYou see, most people are indeed good people with good intentions.  They WANT to do go.  They WANT to succeed and therefore MOST people will do what "society tells them to do."  Unfortunately, as demonstrated in Part 1, we realize that society is NOT here to help the individual but to take advantage of the individual to advance society.  But, again, society and the institutions therein are SO effective at brainwashing people into thinking they're "doing the right thing," not only do they trick most people to sacrifice their finite lives for the "commune," they get people to become emotionally and psychological vested in these lies.So be you,20,30,50,70,you not only have to overcome DECADES of your own brainwashing, but face the inevitable backlash from society for daring to be an individual and doing (what is in their eyes) "wrong."Alas, this task is herculean on two different levels.First, the individual must make the most ARROGANT of assumptions and dare to let himself think that maybe, just maybe, ALL OF SOCIETY is wrong, and that s/he is right.  The statistics alone of one person being right while the remaining 300,000,000 citizens in the country are wrong prove the audacity one must have to think such a thought, but have we not see this multiple times before?If it was 1998 and you were one of those "fools" that said there was a "tech bubble" you were an outcast, a pariah, an idiot who "just didn't understand the internet."  Sure enough the individual was proven right, and society wrong.A short 8 years later and the same idiot sheeple masses fell for the same damn trick again.  Except instead of tech stocks, it was housing.  Again, if it was 2006 and you dared to suggest there was a housing bubble, you were an idiot, a moron, and a party-pooper raining on every late 20 something's McMansion house warming party that was purchased on an ARM.  But sure enough, society was wrong, and the individual was right.And think of the pre-internet 20 something man in the dating world who was constantly told:"Maybe you just attract the wrong type of woman?""Maybe you need to try a new fishing hole?""You need to become more sensitive to women's needs"yet had the balls to stop and say,"Wait a minute.  What if there's nothing wrong with me?  What if there's something systematically wrong with the way American girls are being raised?!  What if I'm perfectly fine and these girls are all batshit insane?"Imagine the arrogance and gall it took WITHOUT THE CORROBORATING EVIDENCE WE HAVE TODAY ON THE INTERNET to believe in such a statement.  But yet once again, the individual is right and society is wrong.We could go on, but you get the point.  In order to live your life for yourself and not society, you need to have the balls and the courage to dare to think that you on your little lonesome may be right, while the rest of society is wrong.  It goes against, "conventional wisdom."  It's the epitome of hubris and arrogance.  But it is the only logical conclusion you're left with when you've "done what society told you" and have nothing to show for it.The second herculean task is unfortunately impossible to complete.  For it's more of a new "status" you get to endure rather than a simple finite chore that can be completed in a couple of minutes.  And that is society is going to hate you.  And hate you on multiple levels. The immediate hate you're going to receive is that you will be viewed as a borderline criminal.  You no longer believe in "conventional wisdom" and therefore aren't breaking any codified laws, but are breaking many social norms and morays.  Friends will leave you.  Family will lecture you.  And you'll likely never have a stable career.  You aren't OBEYING, you aren't CONFORMING.  You're "not a team player" and have "anger management issues."  It isn't that you're personally assailing or assaulting these people, it's that you are directly triggering their "tribal survival instincts" and at a subconscious level are indirectly threatening their livelihood.  Alas, you will just "rub people the wrong way" because you insist on being a genuine individual.The second wave of hate you'll receive is that you'll be viewed as arrogant, cocky, holier-than-thou.  Again, you won't be lifting a finger to hurt or harm any one, you'll just be living a life that is based in reality.  And after you do that for a while you'll start to do better than your peers.  You'll date more women/men.  You'll make more money working less hours.  You'll enjoy more hobbies and have better mental health.  You'll have a better family life with children who actually love you.  The high-powered-corporate couple, who are on the verge of divorce, have everything leveraged to the hilt, and can barely afford the nanny for their children they really don't love will secretly envy you as you hop on your motorcycle for a two week American west roadtrip replete with reading books, fishing, and hiking.And the final (and most visceral) form of hate will result from you essentially making others question their own lives.  In living your life based in reality and not what society wants, you are empirical evidence, a mirror that forces people to wonder if they haven't pissed away their own lives.  Some people respond positively to this, going down the path of independent-mindedness, salvaging what remains of their lives.  But most will merely see red and hate you.The reason is sad.Deep down inside these people KNOW they are too lazy to do what is necessary to live a truly enjoyable and accomplished life.  And instead of putting forth the mental and physical effort, they choose instead to believe the lies told to them by society.  However, without any real, genuine accomplishment in life, all they have is the lies they believe. "I have my MASTERS DEGREE!  I'm SMART!!!""I'm a VEGAN!!!  I'm MORAL!""I'm a BORN AGAIN CHRISTIAN!  I'm SAVED!!!!""I'm a (fill in victim class here) _______!!!  I'm ENTITLED!!!""I'm a feminist!!!  I'm EMPOWERED!!!!""I'm a MGTOW!!!  I don't NEED WOMEN!!!" So when you come along and prove that their false gods and their false religions are just that, you are an unintentional megaphone screaming into their ears that they are wasting their lives, have no value to society, but above all else, are cowards who'd rather live lies than live life. Naturally, you can predict their response. Name calling (racist, bigot, homophobe, sexist,  misogynist, etc.), feigned indigence, accusations of oppression, death threats, and let's not forget good old fashioned "the world getting its tits in the sling."But the fact they resort to these methods of "debate" only proves you're right and they're wrong. Regardless, if you're willing to do these two things (dare to think you are right and society is wrong, AND endure the guaranteed backlash and hatred that will ensue), going down this path in the long run is worth it.  And the reasons are three.1.  You won't waste your life. I don't know how many leftists and other lie-livers are going to be on their death beds wondering and regretting the one shot in life and consciousness this universe gave them. Could that MGTOW have hit weights and not died a virgin?Could that feminist tried her hand at STEM and not lived on EBT and government grants?Could that inner city kid left the ghetto and become the next Ben Carson?Could you have been a stay at home dad and spend time with your children instead of at the office?Probably, but that's not our concern. When we die there will be no regrets.  We'll be comfortable with dying because we lived.  We didn't sit there and mope, whine and complain, and blame all of our problems on other people.  We went out there, got our asses kicked, but kicked even more ass in the process.  And in the end we didn't waste second of our lives.  They weren't ordinary lives.  They weren't lives lived by "what we were told to do."  They were unique lives, filled with the successes and mistakes that were 100% owned and defined by us.  And that's an experience no liberal arts-majoring hipster, professional victim, SJW, feminist type will ever experience.2.  SanityI don't care how much flak I get from how many millions of people.  In the end the life I lead right now is INFINITELY better than what I was living before simply because it makes sense.  It's logical.  It all adds up. I don't sit awake at night wonder how to excel in my career or impress my boss.  I don't get frustrated wondering "what do women want and how can I give it to them?"  And I don't spend one calorie of energy worrying about encroaching socialism or the future of western civilization. I sat down, removed emotion, feelings, and desires from all of life's questions, and simply asked, "what is reality?  What is real."  And upon answering those questions, and accepting the empirical evidence as fact, knowing and living in the real world provides more stability and sanity than one where you "major in your heart and the money will follow" or "maybe you just attract the wrong type of woman." Admittedly, a lot of people may not like you.  But the serenity and peace that comes with living in the real world is worth all the hate in the world.3.  ProgressIn living and basing your decisions in the real world, success is inevitable, even if accidental.  You're not throwing $75,000 on a "Creative Writing" degree you "hope" pays off.  You're accepting the reality that you should drop $10,000 on a welding program certification.  You're not going after the hottest babe at the night club, but meeting that solid B girl at the Beartooth rally who can clean her own carburetor.  And you're not believing that president Obama is going to provide for you forever, but you're going to take matters into your own hands, make sure you don't get somebody pregnant, and ensure you don't end up in the poorhouse.You may not be living the life society promised you (if you "did what you were told"), but that life was never going to happen anyway.  And that's the reason the individual's life will always be better than the one society told you you could have.  So the choice is really yours.  You can do what society tells you:Get a worthless degreeFollowed up by an MBA or mastersFurther burdened with a mortgage and car loansWith children you can barely affordPlus a spouse who is likely to divorce youWith two "power careers"Replete with 2 hour commutesCubicle soul-destroying jobsandChildren in day care who hate youorDo what you want:A simple trade or skillFrugal minimalist budgetA QUALITY spouse With a focus on family, friends, and loved onesTime with the childrenFishing trips out west No debtandA reliable used carBut the truth is, this isn't an editorial.  There is a right and wrong answer.  The issue is whether you can give up caring what society "thinks" about you.  
Maximum Freedom, Maximum Responsibility 
It is with understandable frustration that Roosh recently wrote this post on his site claiming that people do not deserve the freedom they've been given.  And when you compare what western civilization has become against the 4,000 years of intelligence, independent thought, sacrifice, war, morality, and altruism our forefathers  paid/thought/endured/suffered to make such freedoms possible, you can understand his point.Pajama boys of modern day America demanding an increasing state compared to the WWII soldiers who fought against a forever growing state.Girls obsessed with taking selfies when Galileo was ostracized for daring to insist the Earth orbited the sun.And the years of precious and finite life the likes of Edison, Ford, Saulk, Bourlaug, the Wright Brothers, etc. sacrificed all so a generation of navel-gazers could concoct reasons of how they were oppressed and cheer on the "bravery" of Bruce Jenner.It is no doubt sickening how the sacrifices and prices paid by generations past have resulted in the most spoiled and worthless generations of the Baby Boomers, Gen X and Millennials of today.  However, while Roosh's logic is sound, and his visceral disgust with humanity 100% valid, his argument against freedom for people is flawed.  Not by any fault of his own, but by the faults inherent in democracy and the society we live in today.Understand that previous to democracy and even modern day civilizations, there were automatic punishments built into the world that people would pay should they make stupid decisions.Did you poke a saber tooth tiger with a stick?Did you spook a herd of mammoth into stampeding the village?Did you eat berries that you saw no other animal eat?If you did any one of these stupid things, you would die and your stupid genes along with it.However, even within civilization stupid decisions were punished.Did you breed without being married, thereby forcing the tribe or village to support your mistake?Did you parasite off of society insisting on being a talentless bard instead of an industrious farmer?Did you commit crimes, stealing from people precious food and items that were in short supply?Well at best you'd be ostracized, and at worst, you'd be killed.  Again, taking your inferior genes and decision making ability out of the gene pool.The point is that yes, you had the personal freedom to do many things.  But neither society nor nature was going to protect you from the costs and consequences of making bad decisions.  In other words, yes you had maximum, 100% freedom, but you also had maximum, 100% responsibility.Enter democracy.Through trial and error, 4,000 years of war, and a little philosophy along the way, government has evolved to its most advanced state - "democracy." And while it certainly has some benefits, the primary drawback of democracy is that it gives people the right to vote to enslave and live off of others.  This not only gives rise to politicians who simply run on a platform of wealth redistribution, but also one that bails out the stupid at the expense of the smart.  And so now, today, 70% of the state, local, and federal budgets are NOT spent on public goods that benefit all, but are nothing more than TARP-like bailout programs, bailing people out of their spectacularly stupid mistakes.Did you breed more children than you could afford?That's alright, Roissy will pay for it with more taxes.Did you major in a stupid subject, borrowing $120,000 in student loans which you can never hope to pay back?That's alright, Roosh will pay for it with more taxes.Did you fail to save for retirement because you were too busy partying in the 1960's, smoking pot, telling your WWII generation parents they were "squares?"Don't worry, Rollo's got you cover with extra taxes to bail you out.In other words, we aren't so much giving people money for bribery for votes (though that is true) as much as we are inoculating and shielding them from the full cost and consequences of their mistakes.  And that is why people don't deserve the freedom they've been given.  Not because they don't inherently deserve maximum freedom, but because they've never suffered or endured the negative reinforcement lessons that life teaches you.The argument then, for limiting people's freedoms is compelling.  For a society incapable of learning through negative reinforcement and fatherly love will suffer and ultimately destroy itself in three major ways.One, nobody will ever grow up to become competent, self-supporting adults.  They will forever remain post-pubescent children.  This is no more apparent than the laughing stock that is known as Millennial College Students.  Yes, some are self-supporting.  Yes, some will become contributing adults in society.  But never has there been a higher percentage of not only fully-dependent pariahs, but equally psychotic ones as well.  They are not obsessed about accruing enough in savings to retire successfully, as much as they are beating themselves up over their "white privilege."  They are not concerned about attracting the opposite sex as much as they are blaming them for all the ails in the world.  And they are not concerned about the $18 trillion in debt they voted to enslave themselves into (most of them don't even know what a trillion is), as much as they are "going green" and their "carbon footprint."  In other words these are completely dysfunctional and worthless people to society who will come nowhere near to producing the economic production necessary to support themselves and will become an ever bigger financial burden on society than the baby boomers.Two, constantly bailing out people from their mistakes prevents the economy and society from purging the cancerous humans from our institutions and engines of economic growth.  Nearly every banker scum bag who had a hand in creating the financial disaster is still employed in their same capacity.  Nearly every college student today will be bailed out of their by a soothe-saying politician either directly or by creating make-work programs that only further tax society.  And it is my humble estimation that the next generation of children to be raised by single moms will be the final straw that breaks the economy's back as government checks may put food on the table, but they do not raise strong, independent, law-abiding, economic-powerhousing men. Banksters will still be crippling out financial system.Liberal arts majors will still be parasiting off of the non-profit, academia, public sector world.And the quality of children will NOT be improving, but rather worsening, providing no hope for a future recovery.And finally, three, demographics.Sorry, the fact of the matter is that stupid people breed.  And my further apologies by pointing out the additional truth that stupid people tend to breed stupid people.  Idiocracy is not a work of fiction, but a documentary. How did this come to be?Well, democracy, once again, allows us to bail out all the stupid people who made the most idiotic mistake they can make - breeding kids they can't afford.  Of course this taxes the smarter, more responsible people who would have other wise had children (should society be more merocratic), which further delays their breeding to the point they may never have kids.  And alas, since it's too impolite to force the losers of society to bear the full cost of the illegitimate children they spawned, they will not only fail to learn their lesson, but breed more, ensuring society has a critical mass of stupid people who simply are not capable of supporting society. However, while the consequences of letting people have unlimited freedom may mean the ultimate demise of the world's greatest society, it is not in letting people have freedom that is the problem.  It is in shielding them from the full costs of their mistakes.  It is preventing them from taking 100% responsibility for their actions where the problem lies.  And if we were to take action and enact policies that no longer bailed people out (be they bankers, liberal arts students, single moms, or public union pensioners), those natural laws of negative-reinforcement, punishment, and tough fatherly love would do the work for us, relieving us of the duty of "determining" which freedoms people should or should not have.Of course, this is all very academic and fanciful, and equally so in both camps.Roosh's theoretical advocation of rescinding the voting rights of unmarried parents would be equally lead-balloony as my advocation of the immediate elimination of all income transfers.  Not only is the cat out of the bag (in the fact it is no longer property owners who can vote), but society is so stupid we would both likely be accused of being "bigots" and "haters," and ran out of town.  However, since this is all in "Shoulda Land" there is one more compelling reason humanity, no matter how long it is in the future, should never have their freedoms limited as opposed to their responsibilities fully enforced:Who, precisely will determine what people are allowed what freedoms?Sadly, the answer is the state, as it is only the state that can enforce such things.  And sadly the state is not only completely incapable of determining with reasonable morality and justice who should have what freedoms, but it is also highly corruptible with ideologues and politicians only too happy to oppress and destroy those citizens who disagree with them, further ensuring their own power.  In short, going the route of limiting people's freedoms is not only impossible, but it will only end in complete tyranny and totalitarianism.  Ergo, the only answer in this mentally stimulating but completely theoretical debate is to enforce responsibility.Did that aging dudebro-banker douche make $45 million in loans to his buddy who had no intention of paying him back?Let the bank collapse and with it his career.Did that single mom have another kid with yet another man that "all of the sudden became a real jerk" .0002 milliseconds after she gave birth with no signs whatsoever?Too bad, there's the shelter and here's an adoption agency.And did Madison McMillennial get her 3rd doctorate in Women Afro Cross-Sectionality Studies at that prestigious small liberal arts college in Massachusetts with $200,000 in debt? Too bad, hope you know how to make Big Macs, serve coffee, and like Ramen noodles because that' is the rest of your life.Alas, you don't need to "punish" people by taking away their freedoms.  You simply need to reintroduce the responsibility politicians have taken away from it over the past 50 years.  And trust me, bearing the full costs and consequences of the mistakes people have made in their lives, simply making them be fully-responsible adults will be an unbearable and insufferable punishment that nearly none of them would ever be able to endure.  
School is No Longer Conducive to Human Biology 
A funny exercise I like to run your average endebted American through is the nearly impossible time-line the American labor market forces on its employees in terms of education vs. retirement.You are supposed to:Go to k-12 from the ages of 5-18, then...Attend college from the ages of 18-22, but...Today's modern economy demands some form of progressive credentialism, so a bachelors degree no longer cuts it.  So you need at LEAST two more years of schooling or certification...22-24, however...Even with all that education, the labor market is flooded with poorly-financial-planning baby boomers who can't retire and millions of other recent college graduates desperate for work, so you work crappy, low paying jobs "earning your stripes" and "proving yourself" doing work you could have done at the age of 13.  You never make any real money to significantly pay down your student loans, so at least 5 more years wandering in this job-desert before your now-2 decades of education *might* be put to work...24-29, STILL...You're an American!  You gotta keep up with the Jonses!  And not just in housing, but cars, McMansions and other crap you don't need can't afford.  So you sign away your life on a 30 year mortgage...29-59.Did you promise your kid's you'd pay for their equally worthless Masters in Puppetry Degree, taking out a home equity line to pay for it?...59-64And so NOW, at the age of 64 you decide it's time to "get serious" about retirement planning, except, OOPS!  That's right, the patently INSANE demands of the labor market in terms of education and certification (combined with vanity-induced debts) make it nearly impossible for you to ever successfully and mathematically retire.  But whereas this fun little exercise is one of finance and investing, there's another ENTIRELY different aspect of life that is now quickly being made impossible by progressive credentialism and arrogantly-demanding employers - human biology.You see, for the human race to continue on, we need to breed.  And in order to breed successfully, mothers and fathers need to be earning the resources necessary to raise and support children DURING THEIR MOST FERTILE YEARS.  Biologically speaking, this means anytime from puberty (12/13) to the late 30's (for women).  However, while biology says we "can" start breeding at 13, society through historical trial and error has developed the wisdom to know that you shouldn't.  And so now we wait until we're at least 18.This "optimal age" for breeding was at its pinnacle during those (hated and evil) 40's and 50's.  Young men and women would graduate from high school, land a job here or there, and within a few short years of dating and courting, start marrying and having children while still thoroughly ensconced in their 20's.  Women were optimally healthy to be birthing children.  Men strong enough to toil at the factory.  And both young enough to have the energy needed to tend to the children on very little sleep. But keep in mind this was possible because a young men and women could graduate from high school and find gainful employment.  And not just gainful employment, but enough employment that you could raise a family on just one person's income (albeit a tight budget).Still, the point is that the educational system and the labor market adhered to this biological reality.  You would not only be educated adequately to perform a job, but there were jobs available (and high paid enough) that you could go and support a family while in your most fertile years.But today a similar clash between education and biology is forming as is the clash between education and retirement.  Employers and the labor market are demanding more and more education, to the point it's starting to "push out" the ability to have families.Simply look at the similar demands mentioned above in terms of family planning:K-12 is spent learning how to hate capitalism and white males instead of learning skills.Since you didn't learn anything of employable value in K-12, you need to learn it all over again in college, (plus women are heavily lobbied to eschew families and husbands).But today you don't graduate when you're 22.  It's more like 23 or 24 after your "studying abroad," taking a year off to "find yourself," or heck, just taking a year off so you can afford the next year of tuition.So you do your obligatory 2 additional years of getting a masters or certifications (because no employer will touch you otherwise) and you're finally deemed "employable" by our employer overlords at the not-so-young age of 26.Of course, keep in mind just because you're employable doesn't mean you'll actually find a job.  Remember that labor market sucks for young people.  And you've likely accrued at least $40,000 in student loans.  So even if you're lucky and land that $38,000/year job with (giggity!) benefits, your average 26 year old man is having NO thoughts of marriage, let alone kids.  Which is alright, because nearly every woman in his age bracket is so obsessed about their careers they're deaf to the "tick tick tick" that biology is futilely screaming at them.So everybody slaves away, slowing chipping away at their insurmountable student loans, and with pure, 110% corporate stooge dedication (and "continuing education" of course), and a 2 hour daily commute, our 20 something heroes finally pay off their student loans and earn enough now to consider, maybe, potentially starting a family.Just one problem - they're all 34.Now this is fine according to feminist math.  Which, if I understand correctly means, women will earn their doctorate at 28, completing a total of 23 years of schooling, all so they could work a whopping 6 years, before finding their future husband in the 4 months, 2 weeks and 5 day window that remains before their bone-dry eggs ensure an 83% chance their child has Down Syndrome.But if you don't believe in "feminist math" (and most sane people don't) the reality is that it's more or less too late.  Demands for an absurd and unnecessary amount of education, combined with:Usurious tuition ratesCrippling student loansAnti-family propaganda, andA lousy labor marketis quickly making it impossible to form and start families in the US.But here is the rub.What you have are two massive and unmovable forces heading towards each other.  Human biology on one hand and human socio-psychology and politics on the other.  Human biology is not going to change, and our economic and social structures we've created are not going to change either.  People will want to have families, but they're not going to because society, the labor market, academia, and American employers have made it financially and time-wise impossible to.  So there will be a lot of late marriages and a lot of sex, but a lot of birth control, and thus a lot of childless families.  The two massive forces will essentially neutralize each other out.  Our population will decline, but corporate America as well as Academia will have no new bodies to sell their wares to in the future.Or won't they?For you see, all of the above hinges on one important, but highly flawed premise.  That every person is responsible and will wait until they are financially sound enough to have kids and WON'T if they can't.This, as we all well know, is simply not true.For you see there is another group of people who do not wait until they pay off their student loans to start a family.  A group of people who don't bother breaking out an Excel spreadsheet to see if children are in the budget.  A group of people who just spread their legs or don't wear condoms "cause it feels good."  A group of people who don't bother worrying about whether they can support and afford their own children.Government subsidized families.By definition if you can't afford your children and take a government check, you are a government subsidized family.  You need other people's money to support your family because you (frankly) made a stupid mistake, didn't care about the best interests of...well...anyone, and have no moral qualms about being a parasite.  And it is this group of people that will continue to breed.Alas, I'm no fortune teller (well, actually, yes I am), but if I had to put money on it I would say these are the makings of a culture that is hell-bent on becoming an "Idiocracy."Which makes you wonder if it's even worth bringing children into this world at all. 
Adam Kotsko - Why White Professors Sometimes Hate White People 
Add Adam Kotsko to the growing list of professors (both white and non-white) who are blaming white males for all of the world's problems.  Their solutions range from demanding reparations (from people who had nothing to do with any of the world's past grievances) to calling for white males to kill themselves.  Of course Mr. Kotsko claims his demand white males commit suicide was a "joke," (and I'll let you be the judge of that), but it is clear that Mr. Kotsko is for effectively enslaving innocent white males for past transgressions (both real and made up) that they had nothing to do with.In short, Mr. Kotsko hates white males...ironically, of which he is one.Is Mr. Kotsko a worthless degreed academian with no real world experience?Yes.Did he major in a worthless subject ensuring he never works a real job and only anti-male, anti-white, leftist authoritarian 4th tier degree mills will hire him?Yes.Is this just another crusaderer leftist who is too lazy to work a real job and is just biding what little remains of his pointless, worthless life on this planet acting like he's morally superior to others?Yes.But while this type of behavior is entirely predictable and expected among non-white racist professors, why are there white professors that seemingly hate themselves, even calling for their own race's enslavement or even suicide?Well, strap yourselves in there fine lieutenants, economists and agents in the field, and pour yourself a hefty drink.  For the ole Captain is going to explain it to you.A while ago I knew this guy called "Bob."  Bob had mommy and daddy pay for his masters in computer engineering and thusly never knew poverty, strife or what it took to make society work.  He was spoiled and consequently lived on the "top decks of the Titanic" never seeing the dirty, sweaty engine room below that made his luxurious life so possible.  Because he was never where the rubber hit the road in society, he was a staunch leftist.  He believed that taxes should be raised, George Bush was evil, blah blah blah.  However, when I asked him,"What's it like forking over 50% of your income to people who don't work for a living?"as he made well into the 6 figures he said,"I prefer to pay them so they don't riot or revolt."And that was the god's honest truth.Go back considerably further in time and there's another similar example - danegeld."Danegeld" was simply money paid to the vikings in viking times so that they wouldn't raid northern mainland Europe.  It was "protection money," nothing more, nothing less, to protect then Holland, Belgium, Normandy, and Denmark from viking raiders.  And just like that wimp my old colleague "Bob," they'd rather effectively submit themselves to slavery than fight the parasites that were attempting to live off of them.Now while the two aforementioned examples may not have any obvious link to Mr. Kotsko's hatred for the white race, there are some similarities and a shared seed between the two that explain why the likes of Mr. Kotsko call for/hate on their own race.  And that commonality is laziness.I will say it again for the cheap seats.All socialism and leftists are is lazy.The ENTIRE doctrine of socialism, communism, liberalism, feminism and leftism can be summed up in one word - lazy.They simply do not want to work and if given the choice between self-supportation or parasitism, they will choose parasitism.  This is why the vast majority of leftists are in academia, government, non-profits, or just on the government dole AND is also why the majority of their efforts are merely concocting reasons and lies as to why they are entitled to other people's work.They areJUSTPLAINLAZYAnd Mr. Kotsko (and the increasing number of - surprise surprise - leftist worthless liberal arts academians) are no exception.However, laziness presents a problem for people who are defined by it and live by it.It's hard to survive with that mentality.Again, the majority of leftists' work is simply rationalizing and coming up with reasons you're entitled to other people's time in the form of money.  It is rationalizing slavery.  It is rationalizing their parasitism.This is all well and good when there's a healthy host full of a lot of blood you care to leech off of.  But what if there isn't?  What if the host is dying or dead?  What if the host just plain doesn't have any more blood to give?  Or the host is under threat of being taken over and replaced with a new entity?And this is where the laziness is combined with cowardice on the part of the left.It is my humble opinion that these leftists professors' survivalist instincts are kicking in.   And because they are soooooo steeped in viewing the world through academically induce racial goggles, they see their own race "demographicing out," and non-white demographicing in.  By 2047 whites are expected to NOT account for half the population, and given the political movement to criminalize whites, blame whites for all problems, and use them as the scapegoat, these cowardly professors see the OWN WRITING on the wall and will gladly throw away any self respect they have, as long as they're on the "winning side."  This will hopefully "curry favor" with their new "overlords" and since they will have a track record of calling for the suicide of whites (and sometimes males) in their sad pathetic minds, their sad, pathetic, parasitic lives will be "spared."There is however one problem.In not even having the slightest bit of self-respect, and being so lazy you'll "submit" yourself to a new "tyrant," what kind of life will you live?  I mean, I know being a liberal arts profession at a worthless school in an industry that is bursting like the Dotcom bubble must suck.  But I cannot help but conclude your life will be like "The Toadie" from Mad Max 2.Who is "The Toadie?"Well, this guy who tries to catch the boomerang (video inserted here)It doesn't matter how degrading the environment or his/her position in life is, leftists are so lazy they will accept ANY POSITION, as long as it avoids real work.  The Toadie is a weakling.  The Toadie doesn't care to work out.  The Toadie does not care to become a road warrior.  But that's OK.  Even if The Toadie's fingers get cut off and he is the butt end of all jokes, perhaps even Lord Humongous' bitch, it beats having to work a real job.  And that ultimately means having no self-respect, valuing yourself at 0, to the point you'd call for the suicide of your own kind.The truth is this really has nothing to do with race.  This is 100% psychology, psychopathy, cowardice, and self-loathing.  These professors, who by their own "profession," are unconsciously admitting they do not care to be real men and women in this society, are the true and genuine fools in this world.  They are the weaklings that would rather enslave themselves by paying danegeld to perceived-future vikings than lifting weights, taking up arms, and training to fight them off.  They are the modern day incarnations of "Bob" who would rather bribe the parasitic masses than refuse them, fight them, or face them.  And sadly, they are the true racists for deep down inside they believe their own leftist, hate-filled propaganda that there's some knid of race war brewing or (more idiotically) "whites should commit suicide" when in reality most minorities and whites get along just fine and we'd miss some friendships and loved ones if half the population just up and killed itself.So do yourself a favor.Don't pay the danegeld.Don't pay the protection money.Don't be an Uncle Ruckus. And don't suffer from "The Toadie Syndrome." 
There are No More Calvins 
It was within a very short period of time I knew that school, and teachers, were evil.Oh laugh as you might, but I am not joking.  There is no more evil institution in this country than the veritable prison we condemn our children to for a mandatory 13 year sentence.  Yes we all turn a blind eye claiming it for "education" and the "future" of our children.  But in the end the education system's real purpose is two fold:1.  To outsource children to a large baby sitting operation so (predominantly) women can pursue a career instead of raise their children and2.  Employ generations' worth of talentless, lazy hacks who want an easy way out, 3 months a year off, and are scared stiff of real work - teachers (and the increasing number of administrators).This is not politics. This is not hyperbole.This is not me angry over a lost childhood.It is the truth.School is nothing more than child abuse as two distinct groups of adults are using it for ulterior purposes.Naturally there are some "good teachers," and these teachers believe in education, try their best to educate the children, and genuinely want what's best for them.  However, the remaining 98% of teachers are not "good teachers" and are there first and foremost for themselves.This results in an environment that is toxic for children, and certainly not one that can achieve education.  Year after year, children are forced to leave home and sit in buildings that are architecturally similar to prisons.  The teachers (who by the way have the lowest IQ's out of most majors) are not only uninspired to teach them, but really don't care.  Alas, overtime this combination results in teachers who are not just incapable of teaching, educating, and inspiring the curiosity of young children, but teachers who grow to resent the children, resulting in indifference (reading from the book), if not outright petty and indiscriminate punishment.  Sure enough, over time a child goes from being wide-eyed and hopeful kindergartener, to a 4th grade zombie trying to stay awake.Of course, children may not understand the underlying political reasons why they're sent to a prison-like institution and the country's least competent or caring individuals are chartered with educating them.  But they do have genetically programmed within them self-respect and intuitively know when they're getting screwed.  Alas a natural animosity forms between students and their prison guard teachers.  A healthy distrust between teacher and student.  And soon in a very Calvin and Hobbes like way, students and teachers fall into their natural roles of sworn enemies.
Or at least that's how it was in the 80's.  For whereas back in the day this abuse galvanized us into distrusting our teachers, even hating them, the same cannot be said of young students today.  For what I see now is NOT the independent minded spirit of a Calvin, questioning why he has to be in school, giving his teachers guff, fighting them at every corner, but instead mindless, conforming lemmings who have plain had the independent thought kicked out of them.Now this could be due to any number of things.Teachers becoming BFF's with their students instead of actually teaching (not that they could in the first place anyway)Ritalin and other drugs destroying the Calvin's of the world making them docile and compliant.Emasculated husbands breeding emasculated, testosterone deficient boys. Or the forcing of young female behavior on young boys, turning today's classrooms into compliant, obedient classrooms full of sheeple (and consequently no independent, self-respecting thinkers).But whatever the cause, there are no more Calvins.  There are no more rebels.  There are no more independent minded thinkers.  And it is a devastation to society.The reason can be amply seen in what I deem to be the first fully and completely brainwashed generation - The Millennials.Nowhere can you find a group of people who adamantly insist they are independent minded, but are the epitome of conformist at the same time.The Millennials all rush to sport hipster fashion to prove their independence...only to look like uniformly interchangeable cattle in the coffee shop. They all claim to be smart, going to college, getting even MORE education...only to major in the same worthless liberal arts drivel, obviously unable to the 4th grade math that would have avoided this consequential financial fate of such stupidity. Hey, those tattoos and earplugs are like TOTALLY you giving the bird to the system man!  Only to sheepishly get the surgery done to remove them.And oh yes, politics.  The most "independent minded" and "educated" generation ALL, like lemmings, voted TWICE for a man who just mortgaged their futures with incredible peacetime deficit spending.  And they were either too stupid, or too lazy to know it.There are other examples (global warming, privilege, triggers, white males, and "evil corporations maaaan") and CERTAINLY the Millennials are not the only generation to be duped into conformity (grunge in the 90's anyone?), but the larger point is the one thing they claim to be is what they are precisely not.Independent thinkers.For while people may claim to be "rebels" or "Calvins" or "SJW/OWS Warriors" fighting against the "system" they don't realize they are 100%, completely owned, programmed, duped and operated by the system.They actually BELIEVED their teachers.They actually are BFF's with their teachers.They not only have no problems going to a veritable prison from 5-18, but then are so hopelessly conformist, they consciously BORROW life-crippling levels of debt to to attend an additional 4-6 years more of the same educational-indoctrinist slop.They swallowed whole what their government-sponsored teacher-indoctrinators told them and are just too stupid (or brainwashed) to realize it.Sadly, this has serious costs and consequences to society because without independent thinkers, without genuine Calvins, there are no innovators.  There are no creators.  There are no geniuses who can look outside the box and come up the next cure for cancer.  Technological advancement and economic growth will slow, resulting in lower standards of living than what we could have had.  But worse, with nothing but a bunch of conforming sheeple, the "system" can easily manipulate, control, and own society.  And that has always been the goal of the leftist education system.Of course, try telling that to the "independent minded" tatted up, earloop wearing, liberal-arts-majoring "intellectual giants" who vote to mortgage their own futures while all claiming to be Calvins. 










MASCULINITY
 












 
Kill the Inner Beta Before He Kills You 
Rollo writes a mandatory piece and I will simply add a related note here in that I think suicide is an under-addressed topic here in the Manosphere.  Additionally, I believe it is a genuine threat.  Manosphere readers are predisposed more than most to commit suicide, so allow me this dark and macabre lesson to help prevent it.First, let me start off by saying that pretty much every male friend I have is NOT as happy as he was 5-6 years ago.  And the reason for this universal "less-happiness" is simply economic.  The economy sucks, and men have been disproportionately affected by this.Bad economic times coinciding with higher rates of depression and suicide is nothing new, and certainly explains why most of the men in your life (as well as women) are down.  But there are some other factors here that explain why I believe men are more depressed, BEYOND what a bad economy should warrant, namely politicalSecond, not to get political, there is really no future for this country.People often accuse me of being a pessimist, a party pooper, and a downer.I'm none of the above.I'm an economist and a realist who doesn't swallow BS like "hope and change" and doesn't vote for spectacularly incompetent men because they have nice pecks.  I instead spend HUNDREDS of hours every year pouring over data, charts, statistics and numbers.  I want facts, I want data.  I want reality.  I have more economic knowledge in a milligram of my ear wax that the entire democratic voting population does in all of their brains as they blow $6 every morning on Starbucks and never ponder how the electricity stays on or what happens when the sewers don't work because "Don't Trust the B in Apt 23" is on.Therefore when I say something like, "the country has no future" infinitely-less-informed people's reaction should not be a dismissive,"he's just a pessimist." Their reaction should be"OH SH!T!  How bad is it?"  Or, to analogize it another way, imagine I just came up from the bowels of the Titanic, all greasy and wet, blood running from my forehead, with a huge plumbing wrench in my hand as well as a panicked look on my face and said,"We're going to sink!" And you all laugh, pat me on the head, and then re-direct you attention back to your Gibsons. Yeah, that's what it feels like.Regardless, I'm not the only one paying attention to projections, forecasts and data.  Most other men in the Manosphere are too.  Maybe they're not the SAEG (TM) economist I am, but they know enough that 100% debt to GDP is "bad."  They know what a trillion dollars is, and they know spending $1 trillion more than what we take in is "bad."   And because they have this knowledge and are not blissfully ignorant like the galactically ignorant morons that put a fraud like Barack Obama in charge, they are further depressed because they know what's coming.  Economic stagnation at best, collapse if worse.  Regardless, no future.Third, you throw in the whole feminism ruining women thing and taking away men's primary biological drive, but we've beat that horse to death.  I merely wanted to include it.In the end, you put all this together you can see why a lot of them are depressed, a lot of them are down, and a lot of them may conclude suicide is the answer because there really isn't much to live for.It would normally be at this point in the article I say,"Don't do it!  There's so much to live for," but I can't.  My response is much more somber.  Not that I'm FOR suicide, but rather the reasons I'm going to give you to live are not pie in the sky fluffy bunnies type reasons people normally give suicidal people to live, but the  stone cold real world reasons you should live.First,  "There's so much to live for" in today's economic environment is an outright lie.  You have had your economic future taken away from you.  You've have your financial future taken away from you.  Your career taken away from you.  Your family (likely) taken away from you.  Your whole life has been taken away from you.  WORSE STILL if you were led to believe this was the greatest country and you could do anything, the heights from which you crashed down from were much higher and much more painful upon landing. So if you're to the point you're kicking around suicide, chances are you REALLY DO have nothing to live for.  I believe you.But (and here's the kicker) you have no compelling reason to die either.Say life is really bad.  Really, really bad.  You have no reason to live.Well join the club.You're certianly not alone.  It's not like there aren't 100 million American adult males who aren't in your same situation.  Just because you don't have anything to live for BASED ON TRADITIONAL DEFINITIONS OF WHAT YOU SHOULD LIVE FOR doesn't mean there isn't stuff you can't do.So you don't have a career.  That's just more free time.So you don't have a family.  That's just more disposable income, freetime and a zero percent chance of getting divorced..So the country is going down the toilet.  Collect a welfare check with no guilt and while you still can.The solution is not to kill yourself.  The solution is to1.  Forgive yourself and realize it is not your fault you don't have a future or life didn't turn out the way you hoped it would 2.  Change your mentality from what you "want" to what you "can get."  ie-realize the environment has changed and adapt to it mentally and physically (becuase you have no other choice).3.  Live the rest of your days doing that while you have the opportunity to do it and make the best of it.Second, at least change your environment before you try to commit suicide.  Go overseas, live overseas, do something.  Changing your environment will at least get you out of the environment where you thought it was hopeless.  Usually when people contemplate suicide it means they think it isn't worth living HERE in THIS PARTICULAR ENVIRONMENT.  So the least you can do before you off yourself is give a try at another life.  Stop paying your mortgage, amass as much money as you can, and leave.Besides, what's the worst that can happen?  They "repossess" your house?  Your wife leaves you?  Your credit tanks and you can't find another job?  You were just considering suicide a couple minutes ago.Third, there is so much to do and see on this planet.  My fossil hunting, mountain climbing, motorcycling, writing, ballroom dancing, tornado chasing is not by accident.  Like most men, I too was at the precipice one time of suicide.  Nothing serious, but the thought did enter my mind and my mind said, "well before we go, we gotta do all this stuff then" and boom, my life became much more interesting.  I abandoned my career and women as my primary motivators in life and pursued fun.  It was almost as if experiencing enough pain to think about suicide was a benefit because it put things in context and made me not just change my life for the better, but change my life so it fit into reality.You too may as well go and do what you want.  Go to Italy, get into race car driving, eat ice cream, breed wiener dogs, whatever you want to do.  Because once you pull that trigger, it's not like you can go back and decide to start taking hang-gliding up as a hobby.  Fourth, following along the same lines that suicide results in the worst option - death, that leaves you with pretty much EVERY option available on the table.  What I mean by this is things you wouldn't do if you knew you were going to live and suffer the consequences are NOW viable options.  Namely, criminal.  I am NOT ADVOCATING THIS, but philosophically merely pointing it out.  Specifically, since finances are one of the primary reasons for suicide, why not rob a bank and see if you can get away with it?  The alternative was death, so what the hey (though I wouldn't rob a bank because there actually isn't a lot of money there.  I'd recommend starting up a "green company" and getting a government loan as you pay yourself $2.5 million per year in salary with no intention of it being profitable.  It's totally legal, but it's still theft sanctioned by democrats, environmentalists and Obama cronies.  Make sure to throw a couple thousand towards Barack's campaign.)So in short, yes, I know times are tough.  Yes I know some of you literally, veritably, actually have NO REAL reason to live.  But that is because you are genetically and socially programmed to view a very small handful of things as "reasons to live" - work, family, career all of which are under assault, if not, completely destroyed by now in the US.  You haven't opened your eyes wide enough to look and see there are other reasons.  Additionally, what else you got to do?  You in a rush to die?  Why not chill out and hang out with the living? Explore the world a little bit.  Collect a government check.  Adapt and abuse the socialism that's been shoved down your throat.  Avail yourself of all the freebies socailists have voted in. Accept the fact you can't get what you want, but can take what you can get.  Besides, as I said before, you can't come back.  So you might as well make the best of a decaying society here while you're here simply because you have no other choice.  
The Advice Deficit 
Normally when I do my "bachelor grocery shopping" I ensure I go to a grocery store with self-checkout lanes.  I do not care to suffer Tilly pulling out her coupons, moms stocking up on their monthly groceries for a family of 6, nor Herman the retiree paying with a check.  I want in, I want out, I want to go home.  Unfortunately this last time around I choose "poorly" and was stuck in a line as this particular grocery store did not have the self-check out lanes. This meant only on thing - I was going to be forced to view those stupid women's magazines on the magazine racks.Long ago I wrote  a letter to Super-Valu (the corporation that owns several grocery chains) in the vain hopes of them maybe putting up some guy magazines or just something that wouldn't melt my brain cells like People or Us.  No dice.  And so there I was looking at the covers of every gossip/trash magazine possible, fully understanding now how Barack Obama got elected. But then something occurred to me.What if you were to stack up all the magazines that dispense advice for women and compare it to a stack of magazines that provide advice for men.  I imagine it would look like one of them "how big is a trillion dollars" sort of pictographs where the stack of $100 bills reaches the moon and the men's stack would be 2 Benjamins tall.Naturally this results in an "advice deficit" where the women have a HUGE surplus of advice being dispensed and men barely have any.  Heck, a lot of women even feel charitable and occasionally stop giving advice to women so they can give some advice to men out of sheer pity.  However, while women dispensing advice at volumes a billion times that of men, there are two major problems with the advice deficit.First there is the appalling lack of advice as well as leadership for men.  As my readership/viewership grows I'm amazed at the types and volume of questions I get from young boys and men.  Amazed because it's so blindingly obvious there was no father figure or male role model providing any kind of guidance or leadership.  Whether this was because their fathers were absent or their fathers were present, but were not manly, it doesn't matter.  These boys are completely clueless about many aspects of life that they shouldn't be by their age."So, um, how do I approach a girl?""I want to major in poetry, but your book says that would be stupid.""What should I do with my life?"It angers me at first when I get questions or I see such helplessness, but the fact these are common questions coming from nearly all ages of men/boys not only speaks to the severity of the problem, but how widespread it is.  Inevitably my rage turns to pity when I realize there's nearly 2 generation of young boys hitting the market clueless, unarmed, untrained and prone to be chattel for the meat grinder.Thankfully, though, there is some hope. The internet, along with the handful of men's health magazines and other resources are gain notoriety and significance.  But given the "introductory" or "elementary" level the recipients of such advice are at, means we have a long road ahead to get them up to speed and on the path towards a productive life.  Second, is there is just plain too much advice for women.  The market is flooded with advice.  And not only is it flooded, it's flawed and erroneous about 85% of the time.In financial markets, when you get "flawed" or "bad" information there are costs and consequences.  Namely if you make an investment or trade on flawed data, when reality or the correct information hits the market, the stock price drops and you lose money.  Of course markets are not always 100% efficient and can remain undervalued or overvalued for long periods of time (for example the housing bubble was an example of a market feeding off of flawed data for several years).  But the larger point is that with such an abundance of worthless advice, women can hardly hope to make any significant or serious improvements in their lives following it.  (Heck, I'd imagine 75% of the time the advice is contradicted anyway).  This is now starting to show with happiness levels of women dropping, the "sages" of the women's world proving their advice was wrong, as well as a social and economic breakdown of the nation and culture.  The end result is a tale of two economies, the differences of which go a long ways in explaining the rise of the "Manosphere" and the relative stagnation of its female counterpart.  In the "male market" for advice, you have a DESPERATE and HUGE demand for genuine and effective advice.  Boys/men are clueless, hitting the real world, finding out the BS they were fed by the "asexual, single mom, effeminate father, absentee father, public school teacher" matrix was flawed, ineffective, politically motivated, ulterior, and ultimately damaging.  Therefore, any man who, either through good fathering or by going through the tortuous process of self-experimentation and self-teaching, can provide effective and pertinent manly advice is worth his weight in gold.  It is not a coincidence that many men make their living as "Pick Up Artists," bloggers, dating coaches, financial advisers and authors about men's issues.  There are so few GENUINE and REAL men contrasted with the demand for their experiences, wisdom and independent thought, that they can become something as statistically improbable as a "successful blogger."  And given the shortage of real (or even) present fathers, the future of the industry looks good.In the "female market" for advice you have the exact opposite.  You have more than enough women willing to provide advice for a market that really doesn't want it, and didn't ask for it.  This results in a ton of "noise" where there is no clear or confirmed "wisdom" or "common sense."  Not to mention with such flood of suppliers, those suppliers are incentived to play to the lowest common denominator to make their sales.  Ergo, much like leftists politicians, instead of being harsh and truthful, supplying real-world advice when needed, they find it easier to placate, suck up to, and tell women what they WANT to hear, not what they need to hear.  The result can be seen not just in the sheer volume of worthless women's magazines and blogs, but (what I found particularly interesting) the very young age of the "female dispensers of wisdom."  How is any college age girl a legitimate authority on anything?  The answer is simple - she isn't.  But she never intended to be a kind, altruistic soul, aiming to help out those less-advantaged than her via her "wisdom."  It's all about her.  She WANTS to dispense advice and (hopefully) get paid for it.  Whether that advice is helpful or damaging, the recipients of it be damned.Of course, consequences are to be expected.  Most of the "authors" I researched when compiling "The Dowd Crowd" are in one way or another subsidized in their employment.  They either work multiple jobs, married an editor, or married rich.  Their "career" is more of a hobby in that what they are peddling is nothing special, nothing unique and cannot command an audience to fully financially support themselves.   But worse still is the social and societal costs of essentially lying to girls and women with this tornado of flawed and pandering advice.  All these columnists and faux-sages have done is ruin the lives of their audiences.  Much like the "single parent, single mom, effeminate dad, public school teacher, kumbaya" matrix misled young boys about...well...pretty much everything, so to has the "female advice industry" ruined the lives of girls and young women.  In theory, then, this should give rise to demand equally forthright, honest and blunt advice in the female advice market.  In other words, if a woman like Dr. Helen, Woman and Dragon, Haley and Susan Walsh, etc., were to write a book or a blog, they should be able to capture a significant market of women looking for true leadership, guidance, and advice (and to some extent they have).  Unfortunately, I believe the rationalization hamsters of most women are so addicted to the lies and flawed advice they've received, no amount of legitimate and constructive advice will ever penetrate the squeaking of their hamster wheels. 
Where the Good Men Are 
I took inventory of my single male friends.Nearly all of them are 30+, all of them own their own house, all are gainfully employed, and though not all Ambercrombie and Fitch models, not one of them is obese or below what I would consider a 6.  They also all have at least ONE unique eccentricity about them.  Many of them are ballroom dancers.  Two of them are pilots. One belongs in a band.  A fourth is starting his third serious company.  And another has taught himself two languages because he managed to retire at 42.  It is because of their eccentricities they are part of my crew of friends.  They are interesting and significantly-above-average intelligent people and conversation with them is the most enjoyable aspect of my life.  However, there is one who stands out in this category of "Captain's single male friends."  The reason he stands out is he is the only one who actively pursues dating.Though 43, he is in good enough shape and charming enough with the ladies he manages to date 25 year old women on average.  While this is certainly fun, his long term goal is to get married.  However, he faces a quandary.  Most 20 something girls are immature and not marriage material.  They are pain to date and are not capable of the level of intelligent conversation he needs.  To find women his maturity level, he needs to date older, "older" to him meaning 30+.  But when he does there is inevitably a deal-breaker, usually another guy's kid or a financial wreck.  Thus, he still plugs along, filling his date card with 24 year old's, occasionally wandering into 30+ territory only to have her life-mistakes return him to the younger ladies.Now you would think "this is a great situation" and he is having the time of his life.  But alas, my 43 year old friend is starting to suffer from "Player Burnout."  He no longer is excited about the prospects of a new date.  He no longer has the giddiness and hope of taking out yet another 26 year old.  And when they text him their naked pictures he merely shows me and the others guys and says, "meh."  In the past year I have seen his interest in other hobbies supplant his interest of women, and if you were to ask him today if he'd rather smoke a cigar than go on another date with a girl he met online.  In short you are witnessing the last dying moments of a player, much like watching the final stages of a star gone supernova, before it collapses into nothingness.When he does go "supernova," however, there will be no more players, let alone men looking to date in my crew.  And with his resignation from "the game" he will pull himself out of the dating market and there will be one less "good guy" out there for the ladies.  It then dawned on me that the answer to:"Where have all the good men gone?"was staring me right in the face.  I can answer that question by simply explaining what all my single male friends do."Mike" the retired at 42 year old has a lifestyle akin to mine.  He has no real job, he wakes up when he wants, and he pursues various intellectual pursuits to stimulate his mind.  He is a minimalist with very few expensive possessions and though he is a veritable millionaire, he drives the cheapest import car he could afford.  For entertainment he tries different coffee stores and hangs out with some of his other retired friends during the day.  In the evening he hangs out with us usually for cigars or a cheap dinner at one of our favorite dives.  He returns home where he teaches himself languages, reads books, watches documentaries, has cocktails and goes to bed around 4AM."Bill" is a pilot.  He just purchased a very nice home and the mortgage on that home is the only debt he has.  He has been living frugally for the past 10 years, building up a massive downpayment that he could afford a 15 year mortgage and a very low interest rate.  He works out with me religiously.  He is also the musician in our group and can ballroom dance.  He's been working on his music, his body building, and his career.  When he's in town he joins us for dinner at that same dive restaurant or (time permitting) is up for flying down south to enjoy warmer weather."Fred" is a computer networker and a race car driver.  His house is pretty much paid off because he busts his ass off working about 60 hours a week.  If you want to find him you can find him at work, at the gym, in his basement (tinkering with computers) or on the race track.  You will not find him at a club or a loud bar, because he is a beer connoisseur.  You will find him at the quiet local brewpub with a bunch of other 40 somethings. I could go on, but if I were to succinctly summarize where to "find the good men" it would be:1.  At home2.  At a coffee shop/low end restaurant3.  At work4.  Out doing their hobbiesIn short, NOT at the bar or the night club.But here is where the women face a high, if not, impossible hurdle.  You can't meet these men even if you wanted to.  You can't go to random houses, knocking on guys doors to see if any "good guys" are home.  You can't go to a restaurant and randomly approach men to see if they are good guys.  You certainly can't go to various corporate offices to see if any good guys are at work.  And unless you are in the passenger seat of Fred's race car or Bill's airplane, you're not going to find good guys attempting to join their hobbies.  In other words, they've gone ghost. They're gone.  They're not only off the market, you can't even find them to convince them to consider going back on the market.  This leaves marriage-seeking women with the "nightclub" or "online dating" as markets for finding men.  Unfortunately, these aren't "good guys."  Not that they a morally bad men, they're just not marriage minded men.  They're players.  And so when a guy scores a number and lines up a date with a girl he met at a bar, 9 out of 10 times he has no romantic interest in her, only sexual.  This makes things doubly bad for women because it is misleading or (to borrow from economic parlance) "sends the wrong pricing signals."  With all these players asking for their numbers, women misinterpret this attention as romantic attention, not sexual.  Thus, they are constantly thinking "Mr. Perfect" is just around the corner, when it is just another player.  20 years of bar-hopping and night-clubbing go by with no yield of "good men" and thus, with the biological clock screaming, they ask "when have all the good men gone?"The answer, ladies, is "home."Enjoy the decline!  
How I Befriended a WWII Sniper 
This post is not one of bragging or heroism.  It is a post the background story of which is necessary to convey the moral of the story.  Any criticism or accusations of bragging and blowhardism will be ignored. It is here that I have to confess something, for in me telling this story I will tip my hand and belie what my next project is.  That project being the first in a new series of books I will be starting (for the rest of my life) called,"The Crotch Rocketeer's Guide To X""X" being wherever my motorcycle travels take me.  The Canadian Rockies.  Tierra Del Fuego.  The Wild West.  You name it.However, the first in this series of books will be South Dakota, specifically, the Black Hills, which is where I currently am.  I am taking photos, notes, and whatnot to compile a guide for everybody (not just crotch rocketeers) about how to avail themselves of the most the Badlands and Black Hills have to offer.  However, since I only have two weeks here I have to spend my time efficiently and judiciously, requiring me to make side trips and short stops along my general way...which is how I made friends with a WWII sniper.I had met him once before on one of my previous trips to the Black Hills.  This was the byproduct of me hearing about a "barn dance" at some unheard of town, and because this town was so obscure and so out of the way, I was committed to experiencing this event.  Upon arrival I found out the townsfolk were going to go to "the" bar in town and get some drinks before the dance started.  I decided to tag along and upon walking through the door of "the" bar I saw "him.""Him" being "Lee."  A man nearly 90 years old, thick glasses, a skinny and frail figure.I was warned about "him."  I was told he was a curmudgeon, a pissed off old man, that he had a sawed-off dual barreled shot gun behind the bar, and that I shouldn't piss him off.And they were right.He was a curmudgeon.He was old.He was pissed off.And there was the double barreled shot gun.However, what they did NOT tell me was that he was a HAAAAYOOOOGE fossil collector and agate hunter.  They also did not tell me his house was attached to the bar.  And they also did not tell me that he left the door open from the bar to his house WHICH GAVE YOU A PERFECT VIEW TO HIS AWESOME FOSSIL AND AGATE COLLECTION!As I was walking through the bar and looked to my right, I saw all this 90 year old man had collected.  The finest pieces, the finest specimens, the crappiest of which put my best to shame.I turned to my left, gobsmacked, and like a little kid at Christmas asked if I could look at his fossils.He said in a very stern tone, "no!"  And if my memory serves me correctly there was even a threat of the double barreled shotgun.A little shamed, I realized what the townsfolk said was true.  He was an old curmudgeon.  He didn't like strangers.  And even though he had the world's greatest agate and fossil collection, my passion would simply be an annoyance to him and so I let it be.However, my memories of this town and "the" bar still remained fond.  It is a GREAT TOWN, a LITTLE TOWN, a TOWN YOU WILL NEVER FIND UNTIL I PUBLISH IT IN MY BOOK.  And so, when I was on my way to my hotel and realized the sun still had about another hour to set, I figured I had the time to take a detour, take a snap shot of the bar, the town, and the streets for the "Rocketeers's Guide" and save myself a chore at a later date.Upon arrival there were no cars in front of the bar.  I was thinking the old man maybe died or just retired, but when I parked my motorcycle near the entry I could hear a television and knew he was still in business.  I didn't want to piss him off so there would be no asking about the agates or fossils, and truth be told, I was a bit fearful of asking him if I could take a picture of the inside of the bar.  Old men like their privacy and this guy DEFINITELY was the type I could see getting pissed off, looking at some crotch-rocket-driving city slicker wanting to take a picture of his "cute" and "quaint" little bar.  I walked in, took off my helmet, and sure as shit, there was the old man.  Just like I remembered him, but two years older.  However, though two years had passed since I last saw him, he looked 5 years older.  He was even more frail.  He was my height (5'9") and maybe 115 pounds.  His shoulders were also unlevel, suggesting to me his bones were going out of whack.  He was also more bent over, not to the extent of a humpback, but one of a man in his 90's.Also at the bar was a man rolling his own cigarettes.  He was in fatigues and a muscle shirt.  Approaching 60's.  Looked like Sam Elliot.Upon seeing me the old man made his way over to my position at the bar.  He used the bar as a crutch to make his way over.  He asked me what would I have and I said, "Whiskey."I stroke up a conversation with the guy rolling his cigarettes.  Chit-chatting here and there, but as many men in this area of South Dakota, he knew about agates, fossils and the like.  We started talking about different places to hunt and the old man was listening.However, though interesting, our conversation was interrupted when two large men walked into the bar.  Both drunk.  Both very large.They weren't loud drunk, but their body language gave it away.  Slow talking, slurring, not getting to their point.  Inevitably they wanted two beers and already I knew something was up.This bar is a far flung bar in the middle of nowhere.It is in a town you would not know exists unless you already know it exists and if you're going to get a drink  when you're already drunk this is not the place you'd go.Also, when you're hammered, you don't ask for a Bud Light.  You go for something heavier with more of a punch, especially if you're over 2 bills.  So when these large men asked for two Bud Lights, I knew something was wrong.Confirming this was when these vermin started giving the old man shit about the price.The price for 2 beers was $6.  The gas alone was more than that to get their drunk asses out to this bar from the main drag.  So when they started not "heckling," but complaining, even acting like they weren't going to pay, then (truthfully) I was glad South Dakota recognizes Minnesota's carry conceal laws.The man rolling his own cigarettes didn't seem to notice.  He was talking to me the entire time.  I was trying to keep two conversations up, responding to the guy with "Uh huh..yeah...yep...uh huh" while watching the two thugs interact with the old man.  Then one of the thugs went to the bathroom, while the other one asked to bum a cigarette off of the other guy.  Funny thing was, the other guy was rolling his own cigarettes, which meant there would be some work required of the thug, which actually put him off.  Regardless, while they were going over the basics of rolling one's own cigarette I strode over to the old man and said under my breath,  "you alright?  You need me to stick around?"The old man said,"Yeah, I'm fine.  Thanks for asking, but I've handled these types before."Taking the man for his word, I paid my tab and decided to leave.  Grabbed my helmet, walked outside, and there was a truck with a kid who was nowhere near the age of 16 in the driver's seat.  Hand over his face once I walked out.  He obviously drove these two guys to the bar and was sitting just a like a getaway car.  Too damn fishy.  "Oh well," I said to myself, "the old man is a piss and vinegar sort, he's got that shot gun, he'll be fine with the other guy in there."Put the key in the ignition, started to done my gloves and helmet, and then I just couldn't do it.  I couldn't let the old man be.  Piss and vinegar and anger and weaponry all aside, he was just too damn old and too damn frail.  They could overpower him easily ensuring he never reached the gun.  The large thug could easily hold down the cigarette-roller.  And who knew what role the adolescent thug would play.  I couldn't leave.So I returned.Walked back into the bar and somewhat brashly said, "Eh, I decided I'm going to stick around a little bit!" and took my old seat.The old man came up and asked me under his breath if I wanted a drink on the house.  I said no, but I'll take water.  I asked him quietly if he called the cops, which he hadn't, because he wasn't just a tough, old, curmudgeon man in reputation, but in reality as well.  His pride wouldn't let him.  I figured the best thing to do would be to get the cops to come in and so I walked outside in the vain hopes of having reception.For some ungodly reason, there actually was reception for both cell AND data in this town.  Got the local county cops on the line, started to give them the information, and then the two thugs walked out.Apparently, they had had enough.  The two "Bud Lights" were enough for them.  They got in the car their 12 year old son/daughter (I couldn't tell) was driving and as they drove off I saw them open a bottle of tequila.They already had the booze from the get go.  Stopping by at the old man's joint was something more nefarious, at minimum, ulterior.I told the cops what was happening, telling them they were leaving, but they may want to send out a squad anyway given a 12 year old driving two men with an open bottle of tequila usually isn't good news for others on the road, and then returned to the bar.I said to the old man, "looks like they're gone" and before I could ask him about how long it normally takes the cops to get there he said,"You are really observant.  Most young men don't even pick up on that.  YOu knew what they were doing."Kind of shocked how somebody couldn't sense something was wrong, I said,  "Oh, I don't know about that.  It was pretty obvious they weren't up to any good."I then decided to throw one from his generation to lighten things up,"Besides, you may have that shot gun, but I don't think you can draw as fast as Glenn Ford."And mercy did that get him on my side."Oh yeah!!!  Glenn Ford was fast, but let me tell you!  This isn't the first time!"He then regaled me with a tale that I will not repeat as I assume he would like to keep it private.  However, the story consisted of a thug, taking advantage of an old frail man, out in the middle of nowhere, and that old man rising to his own self-defense.  But while the old man was telling me this story he slipped and belied why he may be so curmudgeonly in the first place.  He said,"I was a sniper in the Pacific and by golly I know how to handle myself!  Ain't nobody going to get me!"Heh, the old frail man who stood in front of me was a WWII sniper in the Pacific.  He was the badest ass mofo for at least a 40 mile radius.  Sure he was 115 pounds.  Sure he was weak.  But he was never going to go down without a fight and that made him the coolest guy I was guaranteed to meet this entire trip.I wanted to say something a little cocky, but lesson-teaching, about large, multiple, younger thugs, up close and personal, vs. Japanese officers at 1,500 yards in the hopes it would convince him to retire, hire some muscle or maybe call the cops sooner, but I opted to shut up instead.  He offered again to buy me another drink, but I said,"No thanks, I'll take you up on it next time I'm out here.  Should be a week or two, but I'll be back."And before I got up from my seat he said,"Thank you for making friends with me."It wasn't until about 10 miles later did I fully realize how freaking cool and awesome it was to have a guy like him thank me (THANK ME????) for being a friend and considering me a friend.  It means more to me than "earning a degree" or "getting a promotion" or some other such lame ass shit that passes for "achievement" or "success" today.  Besides, pissed-off, curmudgeon, angry, WWII sniper, agate hunter, fossil hunter that could put me to shame, now doesn't hate me so much!?   I mean, come on, how do you beat that?  
Why the Manosphere and Socialism are Mutually Exclusive 
A young man on the RooshV Forum had posted a question about resources that would help him determine his political orientation.  Obviously a younger fellow and not fully versed in politics, economics, and ideology, he was noble in that he was at least open minded and wanted to find out for himself what his political leanings were and NOT let the government-education matrix tell him he was a socialist.However, I found that kind of funny because if you think about it being a real man or a Manosphere adherent and being a socialist/leftist/democrat are pretty much mutually exclusive.If you look at what men stand for (and the themes that are being written about in the Manosphere) they are largely traits of that of conservatives or libertarians.Independence.Freedom. Self Reliance.Production.Wealth/enriching oneself.Success.Competition.Excellence.Integrity.Honor.Physical health If you look at our presumed opposite number  (feminists or women in general) they write about/champion:DependenceGovernment assistance/relianceCommuneSharingEquality in opportunity AND outcomes"Fairness"SamenessPreventing hurt feelings by the elimination of successThe elimination of concepts like "best" or "better"Fat acceptanceNow we can debate about the details, but frankly, it cannot be any more stark and any more clear.Men champion ideologies themed around capitalism/conservative/libertarianism/freedom/the individualWomen champion ideologies themed around socialism/democrat/dependency/commune.But there are many insightful ramifications for this "boiling down" of the two spheres' ideologies.It goes a long way in explaining why women tend to vote democrat and men, republican.  It brings up good questions about males vs. females aptitudes in logic and math versus emotions and feelings.  It explains clearly how women view the government as a viable substitute for men.  It even brings up some interesting psychological or sanity issues (in the case of fat acceptance).  But if there's one thing it does point out, especially for a young man, it's that real men aren't socialists.  Real men aren't democrats.  Real men aren't egalitarians.  Real men aren't communists.Real men are freedom-loving individualists who want to achieve excellence.The reason I bring this up is because there are a fair amount of young men who think they are democrat, discover the Manosphere, love what it has to say about courtship and dating, but then get confused (or even angry) when they find the political aspects of the Manosphere to be conservative or libertarian in nature.  I imagine this causes some confusion where a young man would say, "Wow, I really dig this stuff on dating and girls, but WTF is with this capitalist, nazi, GW, racist, BS?  I hate the banks, maaaan!"So let me break this down to explain why there seems to be this disconnect.1.  You are too young and ill-read to know the history and economics behind the current political spectrum to be able to accurately judge and assess the correct political ideology.  This is not a slam on you young men, but a correct assessment AND YOU KNOW IT.  Have you studied the federal budget?  Have you studied Keynesian vs. Classical economics?  Of course you haven't.  But you HAVE STUDIED GIRLS.  The only reason you find the observations of the Manosphere spot on about women IS BECAUSE YOU HAVE AN INTEREST IN WOMEN.  Most 20 soemthing men have no interest in economics or politics. It's time you do your civic duty and un-ignorantize yourself about government finances, budgets, and economics.2.  The stuff you like about "dating" and "courting" and "girls" and "sex" derives from the exact same logic, reality, and truth that most men in the Manosphere derive their political ideology from. The common thread between them is one simple thing - "truth."  Real men really don't have an opinion as much as they merely want to know what the truth is and then abide by it, even taking advantage of it to advance themselves.Do women like caring sensitive men?  NoDo women like strong, brutish men?  YesConclusion - hit the gymThe same cold, steely logic applies to all aspects of life.Will majoring in poetry help me get a job?  No.Will majoring in electrical engineering get me a job?  Yes.Conclusion - major in engineering despite me wanted to be a poet.Will lying around collecting a government check advance society or improve myself?  No.Will lower taxes and less government spending prompt people to get off their ass and work?  Yes.Conclusion - vote republican. Women, on the other hand (particularly feminists) do the opposite.  They find out what the truth is and try to change it or villainize it:Will majoring in women's studies get me a job?  No.THAT'S BECAUSE SOCIETY IS SEXISTS AND PATRIARCHICAL!!!!  I NEED GOVERNMENT MONEY!Conclusion - vote democrat. Will being fat and having short hair attract me a man?  No.THAT'S BECAUSE MEN ARE INTIMIDATED BY A REAL OR STRONG WOMAN!!!!!  I NEED IVF!!!Conclusion - vote democratWill running trillion dollar deficits ultimately destroy the US dollar and our economy?  Yes.HOW DARE YOU CRITICIZE OBAMA YOU RACIST!!!!Conclusion - marry Barack Obama vicariously.The choice is really up to you - do you live in reality or futilely fight against it?3.  Being a man it is in your nature to be conservative/libertarian/individualistic.  as time goes on and you become more and more informed about government, politics, economics, and budgets, you will start to realize the BS you were fed in K-12 and college was precisely that.  BS. Unless you have high estrogen levels in your system, your DNA and genetic programming will take over your social brainwashing, driving you to succeed, achieve and excel as well as maximize your freedom.  We could go on, but the truth is I am not trying to convince you.  I kind of like keeping the Manosphere stuff separate from the political stuff, and I truly believe it is up to the individual to come to their own conclusions about their political beliefs.  What I am trying to do, however, is explain to you the differences between the Manosphere's and feminists' political ideologies so that you can make a more informed decision on your own as well as clear up any confusion as to why the Manosphere seems to have so many republicans, conservatives, libertarians, etc.Besides, the truth is, I don't have to lift a finger to convince you.  If at any time you want to be a liberal man, go ahead.
Most real men are anything but.
Accidental Alpha 
I was sitting at my post late one night at the Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Building.  I was stationed there to protect the multi-million dollar super computers that were in the bowels of the building, even though it would take a crane, a wrecking ball, and other heavy industrial equipment to steal them from the premises.  In short, I was there to lower the insurance premiums of the building by sitting at a desk because I was "security" and according to the insurance company's idiotic actuaries, there was now officially a statistically smaller chance the 5,000 pounds of super computers would not be absconded with.  Up came a friend of mine.  She was an east Indian girl.  The epitome of "cute," she must have had a British soldier inseminate her lineage 200 years back somewhere because while her skin was dark, her eyes were piercingly blue.  I appreciated her companionship, but she talked a lot, and I had a lot of studying to do while protecting the immovable supercomputers.  Besides, I know who she would talk about."Brian."Brian was a guy she had a crush on for the past 6 months.  She would consult me about how to get Brian to go out with her.  How to get Brian to ask her out.  How to get Brian to notice her.I appreciated her to death because she was a computer science major and was pulling her own weight in life.  But I was on such a crunched time-table, I didn't have too much time to consult her or advise her about her love life.  She would have to leave in 10 minutes, otherwise I wouldn't be able to finish my chapter and complete my assignment for "Advanced Financial Statement Analysis.""Hiiiiiiii Aaron.""Hello, Swatee.""What are you doing????""Studying.""Why do you study so hard?""Because I don't want to be poor anymore."But soon enough "Brian" came up in our conversation.I loved the kid to death, but I didn't have time to talk about Brian.  It was finals, I was under pressure, and my credit load was the heaviest I had.  And so when she asked for the 40th time about how to get Brian to talk to her I broke.  I said (though in a polite manner),"Look, Swati.  I don't have time for this.  I'm too busy.  I need to get this studying done.  Just ask the guy out already.  I can't be your therapist."She seemed hurt, as I suspected she would be. But then she sheepishly said,"You're Brian."I was perplexed and didn't get it at first."Huh?  Wha???  What do you mean, I'm Brian?"She then confessed, telling me that she didn't know how to approach me and ask me out.  And so she made it seem that she liked this fictional character called "Brian" hoping I would somehow realize.She then did the boldest move I've ever seen a girl make - she asked me to date her."So, would you want to date me?"Without a skip I said, "No."She didn't seem so taken aback by the answer, as much as she did the speed at which I answered.  She responded increasingly shakingly as she digested my answer:"Wa...well...why not?"Equally callous I said, "because you won't sleep with me."Now on the verge of non-functioning she said:"But...but...I would do a lot of other things."I said, again, equally dispassionate, "No, I don't care.  I'm sick of girls not having sex and I'm not dating any more girls that won't have sex.  Your religion prevents you from it so I'm not going to waste my time with you."She ran upstairs crying.It wasn't until a full 15 years later did I realize just how devastating that must have been to that nice young girl.  She really liked me.  She really had an interest in me.  She even went so far as to do what less than .00001% of the female population does and live up to the truly equal reputation they claim to have and ask me out.And I shot her down with the coldest of indifferent callousness. However, I still managed to forgive myself and let me explain why.One, life was tough.  So tough that girls were not on my mind.  What was on my mind was much lower and basal on Maslow's hierarchy of needs.  I was starving.  I had no money.  And I could barely afford to live.  My entire life was work and school and sleep.  There was no fun, there was no "partying," there was no girls.  However, a close third to SURVIVAL and TUITION was "girls."  And so if there was any freetime I had, it was dedicated towards finding one and getting laid.However, most girls within my "game-reach" would play their mind games, tease and joke.  They had parental finances, they had many more male suitors, they had all the advantages, and so when I had a rare 3 hours free on a weekend and was looking to close in that tight window, they were looking for me to merely begin the beginnings of an initiation to perhaps, maybe qualify later, to be considered a candidate, to perhaps at some point in time, maybe have sex with them.The best I got was a girl who dry humped my leg (who was just the first of THREE) and then asked me to leave when she was done.Between the biological-physical pressures of starvation, sleep deprivation, financial demands, tuition, studying, and the rare mind-fuck games girls played on me, I broke and remember, quite clearly saying to myself, "I do not have the time for this bullshit."And so, you can understand why I was so callous and blunt.My life was completely consumed with survival and school.  And therefore if ANY girl was going to insist on being in my Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs she better damn well be putting out.  Otherwise, get the fuck out of my life, you serve no purpose.Two, self respect.  I didn't notice it at the time, but it was arguably the first time I stood up for myself and said, "No."  I was sick of busting my ass off, doing 10 times what the local frat boy douche was doing, and if he could get laid while daddy paid for him, his booze, his roofies, his rent, his insurance, and his condoms, then the least any girl that had an interest in me could do would be to fuck me.  I was by all measures and manners a better man than most on campus, but if any girl dared to insult me by saying,"Lets you and me have a relationship where we cuddle, you pay for shit, spend what rare free time you have with me, but I'm not going to reward all your supreme-kick-ass-edness with sex, but merely my presence,"sorry sweetheart.  Don't care how blue your eyes are.  Go fuck yourself.And it was this transformation that made me the "accidental alpha."Almost immediately after telling her I would not date her, my junior and senior years were a complete 180 from my freshman and sophomore years.  I was working just the same, but oddly enough many women starting popping up, nay, foisting themselves into my life.  I would be sitting at my station and several girls would flirt with me to the point I'd be guaranteed a date.  I would be walking a girl home (while working) and she'd give me her number.  I would be studying at the library and a girl would sit next to me to ask me a stupid question that was an obvious ploy to talk to me.Of course, none of this mattered because I had to put food on the table, shelter over my head, and money into my bloviating and worthless professors' hands, and so I continued to ignore them.  But my ignoring them did make dating a lot easier.  Soon, despite my pressure for time, I had notched up over 70 dates in my junior year alone. My belligerent and iron persona got me a "friend harem" on campus which only begat more introductions to other girls.  And it almost became a non-issue as women seemingly just approached me and "fell into my lap."But let us be clear about one thing:NONE of this had anything to do with what I did.It had EVERYTHING to do with my environment.  An environment that was so harsh, it forced me to push women to the back of the line and put myself first, because if I didn't, I would (frankly) die.And this is the lesson to learn.How a man "achieves alpha" depends.  Sometimes it is through reading blogs like this.  Sometimes it is through good leadership and guidance from a father.  Sometimes it is through sportsmanship and competition.  But if I were to gander for most men, it was accidental.One day, you're the nerd of the world.The next, for some odd reason, you're king shit.The trick is to be able to learn WHY and HOW.Consider the natural athlete or "natural alpha."  He is genetically superior.  Tall, handsome, fast reflexes.  Society is geared to practically guarantee him alpha status through sports, captainships, and highschool hierarchy. But what happens after high school?He goes to college.Learns he's not all that as he's competing against nationwide bigger, stronger and superior guys.And soon develops a gut and gets a "BA" in "business" and works as a salesman at the local styrafoam company.  He returns to his 10 year reunion and realizes he's out of shape, no girls recognize him, and no girls want to talk to him.The man was an "accidental alpha."  His environment made him attractive, but he was clueless as to why and thus could not maintain nor replicate his success he enjoyed for those two brief years in high school.  His "alphaness" was fleeting.You need to be smarter than the high school jock.  You need to know WHY so you can capitalize on it and sustain it.  And thus, when you become the accidental alpha you need to have the wisdom and foresight to step back, assess the situation, and realize why everything is going your way.In my particular case it was that my environment was so extreme it forced me to say to the women,"Go fuck yourselves, I do not have time for you and your petty mind-games and drama and bullshit.  I need to eat and pay for rent.  And unless you're going to get naked, then you can go find an emotional tampon elsewhere."In other men's particular cases it may have been,"Sorry sweetie, I'm making $100 per hour.  I'm going to milk this as long as I can and no T&A is worth sacrificing this."But whatever the case, you must realize why it is you are alpha at that moment in time, otherwise it will forever remain ACCIDENTAL.  You need to identify the traits and behavior you are exuding that is resulting in the success you have with women.  You need to pause and get your head out of the grind to take note as to the (seemingly odd) success and attention you're receiving from women.  You need to stop and identify what precisely is going on because if you don't take time to figure out why you are having that success, it will forever be gone when you;graduateretireachieve your goalsbecause once you do, whatever it was that was attracting women to you will turn off.And unless you did indeed identify it so you can replicate it, you will forever lose it.In short, ensure your accidental alpha status becomes permanent.  
The Summer of "Fuck You" 
I had originally written an intro chapter for The Black Man's Guide Out of Poverty titled "The Summer of Fuck You." However, after finishing it I didn't think it was "ideal" for an intro chapter and opted to write a new one instead.  That being said, it's perfectly fine writing and I decided to save it and use it as a separate post. Ergo I present to you "The Summer of Fuck You."Booze, Repossession, Cursing and Cigars 
The Great Recession had hit me on all fronts in life.  My job (which was in banking at the time) was constantly under pressure to find business, any business, otherwise we'd have to lay people off.  My part-time job (moonlighting as a dance instructor) was suffering from attendance that was half of what it was two years previous.  I couldn't refinance my mortgage at a lower rate because it was underwater and banks wouldn't refinance rental property.  And what money I was making on the internet qualified more as a hobby than any serious source of income.  I was staring bankruptcy right in the face, and with no solution under my control the dread, fear, and helplessness that ensued shortened a fuse that was already way too short.  
Then, one Tuesday, my morbidly obese boss called me into his office and wanted to have a chat about a loan I had written up.  I had spent nearly 6 hours writing the report for this loan.  These 6 hours were completely unnecessary as even a quick skimming of the applicant's basic financials proved he would not be able to pay back the loan.  But I knew what was coming.  So desperate was my boss for new business he would lecture and berate me for being "too harsh" and that I should go and rewrite the entire report to his liking which translated into English meant "lie your ass off and make this loan look good so I can make a commission."
Sure enough I was proven correct.  My boss started going into how I was too harsh in my analysis.  That things were not always black and white.  That the numbers I calculated (though mathematically correct and precise) were still "unacceptable," and I "better learn to become a better team player" etc., etc.  However, he went an extra step further, this time criticizing my ability to do my job.  How I wasn't a team player.  How my writing skills were not up to par and a bunch of other things that I knew just weren't true.  He was lying and trying to get a commission on a loan that he knew would never be paid back.  He was being dishonest and effectively trying to steal from the bank.  He was the epitome of the "bankster scum" liable for the destruction of the US economy.  And this scum bag dared to have the gall to lecture me for getting in the way of his commission.
After the lecture I returned to my desk.  Because of the precarious nature of my finances I had already developed the skill of letting this stuff roll of my back.  I had developed the skill of ignoring it and not letting it get to me.  But something inside my brain broke.  Something snapped.  I mentally could not tolerate the impossible situation I was in.  And for the first time in my life I made a decision that was decidedly bad.
I grabbed what few things I had on my desk.
Called up my boss' boss.
Told him my boss was a criminal scum bag.
And then I quit.
I walked off the job and returned to my shitty duplex.  Grabbed one of the few remaining cigars in my humidor.  Poured a nearly full glass of cheap whiskey.  Unfurled a lawn chair out back and permitted myself to do something I hadn't in nearly 3 years.
Enjoy life and relax.
A couple hours later my (now ex) boss called.  By this time the alcohol had amply made it into my blood stream, making me an even more colorful conversationalist.  And so, despite being hammered, I delivered what was arguably the greatest "fuck you" speeches ever delivered to a boss.  He was more or less speechless.  He murmured something about me being unprofessional, but in the end I told him he was fired...and may have followed up with something about his weight.  I hung up on him, returned to my cigar and vat of rail-quality whiskey, and proceeded to pass out in my backyard.
 
The next few months that ensued was what I like to call "The Summer of Fuck You."  Since things were outside of my control, why would I worry or work so hard to futilely do nothing about it?  My fate was cast, nobody was going to help me, there were no jobs to have, the situation was truly helpless and this was all inspite of "doing the right thing."  And so instead of "doing what was right" I decided to do what was wrong.  I refused to apply for jobs, I committed myself to letting the house go into foreclosure, I got drunk nearly every day and, when sober enough, played video games all day long.
Then something interesting happened.  
Out of nowhere I received a call around 2 in the afternoon.  It was from a recruiter.  I had slept till noon that day and had only been drinking for 2 hours, but was still drunk enough to be belligerent.  The recruiter said.
"I have your resume here and you have a very impressive background!"
"Oh yeah?" I semi-slurred.  "What about it?"
"Well, you have nearly a decade of credit analysis experience, you've programmed models, and the writing sample you left here was exemplary," he explained.  
"So, what, you got a job or something?" I asked flippantly.  
Somewhat intimidated he said, "Well, yes, we actually do and we're looking for someone with your background."
I said, "What bank?" and he proceeded to tell me
I knew the bank he was talking about.  It was what was considered a "community bank."  Small banks that are bottom feeders in the banking industry and were the WORST when it came to credit and quality control.  They employed ex-bosses like mine, middle aged scum bags who were just in it for the money and didn't mind driving the bank into bankruptcy as long as they made bonus.  Knowing full well what laid in store for me if I decided to to work for this bank I bellowed out,
"Fuck you!  What?  Another shitty ass community bank that doesn't have it's shit together?!!!  Let me guess, your president was captain of the local high school football team back in 1976 and doesn't know jack shit about financial statement analysis or ratio calculation!!!  But you know he's a 'great salesman' and can play golf?!?  And let me guess, you got a problem loan portfolio the size of Texas!  Made loans to fucktarded midlife crisis men so they could run a bank into the ground.  Yeah, I totally want to come out there and help you guys clean up your shit!!!!"
There was a moment of silence on the other end, "....so what do you charge per hour?"
Somewhat shocked he didn't hang up or tell me to fuck off, but still drunk enough not to give a shit, I bluffed.
"$75 and hour!!!"
Silence again at the other end, "....how about $65?"
Not being drunk enough to turn that down I said, "Fine!"
After some additional and more sober discussion we agreed upon a starting date and duties.  But when I hung up the phone and the weight of what just transpired hit me, I looked around my dumpy basement office and said to myself, "What the fuck just happened?"
Surprises during "The Summer of Fuck You" didn't stop there.  Because I had given up all hope of any success in nearly all aspects of my life, I had changed my behavior correspondingly in all of these aspects.  Naturally, when I changed my behavior I got different results, usually for the better.
A girl once flaked 20 minutes before a date claiming "her friend just broke up with her boyfriend and needed her."  I read her the riot act telling her that shit didn't fly in the 7th grade and sure the fuck didn't fly at 30.  Sure enough she was at my place a week later in lingerie....um..."cooking" for me.
A carpenter quoted me $1,200 and then delivered me a bill for $1,500...until I went into a rage, cut him a check for $1,200 and threatened to see him come after me for the extra $300 (which he has yet to do till this day).
A bartender once tried to short-pour me a drink.  Once, and he didn't do it again after I said, "Hey, hey, hey.  Did I say pour me an 'eye drop' of Rumpleminze?"
But the most dramatic effect my attitude change had was not on my career, my dating life, or price negotiation skills, but rather my insignificant hobby - blogging and self-publishing books.
Before I quit my job I made sure to keep my writing life separate from my professional life.  My blog was (and still is) quite controversial.  And a huge risk in today's politically correct world was that if anybody found out about it I could easily be fired for "hurting somebody's feelings," "offending somebody's sensibilities," or being accused of various sorts of "isms" (sexism, racism, homophobia, etc.).  However, with no career to care about, a house I couldn't care less if repossessed, a genuine indifference about the future, the philosophy of all of which was drenched in booze, there was nothing left to lose.  And since there was nothing left to lose I could go full throttle and speak candidly, bluntly, indifferently, not giving a one damn about who was insulted, who was offended, or whose feelings were hurt.
The results were like everything else during "The Summer of Fuck You" - unexpected and beneficial.  
Readership started growing at a rate faster than ever.  Loyalty increased as readers were not only more entertained and engaged, but knew I was speaking my mind (no matter how much they may have disagreed with me).  And while certainly my political adversaries were even more appalled at my crassness, bluntness, insults and harsher hate-filled tone, ironically the more I "insulted" them the more self-published books I would sell.
But the biggest irony was not how the popularity of my blog increased with the controversial, rude, impolite and extreme nature of my writing, but rather what was quickly becoming the fastest growing demographic in my readership - young black males.
Based on every sort of traditional political analysis or "conventional wisdom" black males would be one of the last demographic groups that would have an interest in, let alone agree with, my blog.  I, being an "evil white male libertarian conservative" could not relate to such a demographic, not to mention because of my "privilege" would be clueless, and therefore could not relate to young black men.  Furthermore, because of the incredibly direct, indifferent, and politically incorrect nature of my blog it would almost be a guarantee I would be seen as a racist and dismissed as such.
The opposite was happening.
It took a bit to figure out why, but I believe it's because what young black men experience today is very similar to what I experienced seven years ago during "The Summer of Fuck You."  An impossible situation, one where there seems to be no hope, there is nothing under your control that you can do to improve it, and an impossible situation that is just too much to take.  You crack and simply give up.
However, in the case of young black men "cracking and giving up" is not as destructive as becoming a daytime alcoholic, daring banks to repossess your home, cursing at job recruiters, and giving up on all hope.  Rather it is much more productive in that you finally tire of doing "what was right" and instead start to search for "something that works."  And it is this search, this desire to find something that works that has driven both you and me to this same crossroad.
The Potential
At this crossroads it is my sincere belief we both have the perspective and experience to fundamentally and permanently change and improve the standards of living, enjoyment, riches, happiness and lives of all black men.  Our unique, but similar experiences, combined with my background in economics and finance allows us to chart the clear and guaranteed path for all black men out of poverty and into a better life.  However, it is going to require more than just similarly shitty experiences and a desire for something better.
It's going to require strength.
Specifically it's going to require the strength to commit to discovering and accepting the truth.  The resolve to letting go of previous beliefs that have no empirical proof of being true.  Predispositions, biases and falsehoods that your life is just too short to believe in.  And lies that may feel good to the ego, but are essentially the true chains that keep black man down.  You must set aside your feelings and what you'd "like to be true," and instead accept the fact that a successful life can only be achieved by abiding by what is true.  If you can do that, not only can black men achieve the success of their white brothers, but surpass them, even beating out their Asian brothers.   
Why MGTOW Is Unsalvageable 
It is now a nearly daily event where I will get a comment on my YouTube channel from some naive late teen or early 20 something girl who parrots the simpleton and naive argument she was programmed to parrot:"Feminism is just the equal treatment of men and women!"Like all of you, I find it funny, but disheartening because in throwing her lot in with "feminists" or "feminism" she is associating herself with a movement that entails:Menstrual knittingMenstrual painterSpitting on priests and Catholic menFalse rape accusationsand a cornucopia of other outright insanity, hate, and genuine bigotry against men.However, such a young girl can hardly be blamed.  Not only is she young and inexperienced, she's naive.  Additionally, feminism is sold to her as "simply" the equal treatment of men and women (while its darker hate-filled side is very often hidden).  So when presented with this proposition, that men and women should be treated equally, then who (male or female) would reject feminism?The problem, however, is while young women may be predisposed to look at the self-proclaimed moral virtues of feminism, because of the internet young men see the uglier and truer side of feminism.  They see the slut walks.  They see the fact acceptance.  They see their dad's getting divorced.  They see their buddy's worrying about getting sperm-jacked or being falsely accused of rape.  And so when a young woman proudly (though cluelessly) claims she's a "feminist" you might as well proudly be telling a Jew your a Nazi.And that same thing, I'm afraid, is happening to the term "MGTOW."MGTOW in all of its original intent was as noble and just as feminism.  It was simply men choosing to leave the rat race of careerism, marriage, dating, etc. behind, and go live their one life on this planet as they saw fit.  They abandoned tradition, choosing to refuse the offer society currently left them on the table as a cost benefit analysis more often than not proved the old social contract just wasn't worth it anymore.However, like all good ideas, especially ones that rebuke convention, it attracted not practitioners or genuinely independent men, but genuine social rejects and outcasts.  And soon within a couple of years a concept of individualism, freedom, and independent thought was turned into a religious cult that served more as a haven for cultists to commiserate with one another and hate on women.This presented genuine MGTOW's a conundrum I'm sure many legitimate and original feminists faced;Do you keep claiming to be a MGTOW/feminist when radicals, bigots, and losers take over movement and thus redefine the term? Originally, I thought the percentage of cultists in the MGTOW community was a minority.  Just a bunch of loud nerds or unemployed losers who had all day to play a keyboard jockey, pontificating about the "religion" of MGTOW as if they were doctoral seminarians and academics.  But when I did a video to differentiate us real MGTOW's from the 17 year old who couldn't find a date to prom, I realized soon they were both too loud and too high a percentage of the community.  MGTOW, no matter what its validity and benefits as an idea, was effectively hijacked by the cultists and their behavior would make it a four letter word.Alas, I have come to the same conclusion the originator of the term MGTOW (Rob Fedders) came to.  The term MGTOW is not salvageable.  MGTOW today is about as manly as feminism is feminine.  It no longer represents strong, independent men who under their own intellectual volition decide to go out and strike out on their own way.  It is a bunch of self-proclaim internet professors who can only study and speculate about what real life MGTOW's are doing in the real world.Are their real world MGTOW's out there, real men, genuinely going their own way?  Yes, of course.  But they're too busy actually being MGTOW to write about it, let alone care if they're labelled "MGTOW."Ergo, it's up to every man out there which they'd rather be. A practitioner with no label:

Or a theoretician "Level 53F" MGTOW? 
A New Breed of Man SJW's Can't Beat 
In the spirit of full disclose I must admit that:1.  I know Roosh and2.  I am an occasional guest writer for his site Return of Kings.Having said that neither my personal nor professional relation with Roosh will affect nor color my analysis of his Canadian trip and the SJW drama that has ensued.  The reason why is simple - his actions and experiences in Canada speak for themselves and tell a story that needs no editorializing.As this post is being written Roosh has completed one of two Canadian speeches in his world speaking tour.  The first speech (Montreal) was threatened by some SJW's, notably one who set up a petition to prevent him from even entering Canada, while another (Jessica Lelievre, the epitome of "spoiled brat rich daddy's girl") harassed him in public by dousing him in liquor (and foolishly filming it which has resulted in a lawsuit).Now I can go on, and certainly the media will cover Roosh's travels through Canada and the SJW circus that will come with it.  But instead of chronicling what's happened and then make some obvious observations about the mentally-ill culture of SJW's, I wanted to explain1.  Why this time it will be different2.  Why it is because of qualities and traits of men like Roosh that will make it different and3.  Why the SJW's will loseWhat SJW's, leftists, socialists, and other vermin of society are used to is a tired, old, and worn out tactic of silencing somebody they disagree with or threatens to expose them for the parasites they are by accusing them of an "ism" (racism, sexism, ageism, etc.), which in turn then threatens that individual's career and thus livelihood.  Mozilla firing Brendan Eich, Dr. Palmer's shooting of Cecil, doxxing and SWATing, even I've had people try to tell my clients I wrote "mean racist things." Though dishonest, cowardly and tiresome, this tactic works and is highly effective.  In threatening and holding hostage an individual's career and reputation, they also threaten that individual, his life, and his family.  Alas, they can essentially shut down any social or political commentary from the productive classes, leaving only leftist, SJW and politically approved socialist thought in the public forum.  However, this tactic only works if there is something of value to hold hostage over the person saying things SJW's find disagreeable. A dentist with a career.An accountant with a family.A professor with a 20 year track record.But what the SJW's and leftists don't realize is that while they may find the world to be such a place of injustice and they "still have a long way to go," their leftist predecessors have made great strides in the past.  They have managed to stagnate the economy.  They have managed to create an education bubble.  They have managed to destroy the labor market for young people.  And, above all else, feminists have largely been successful in destroying young women for young men.And it is from this environment a new strain of men have arisen.  A strain of men immune to all SJW's tactics.Take a look at Roosh and his background and you'll see a man who has nothing to lose, and therefore nothing the SJW's can threaten.He tried (like all of us) to "do what was right."  He went to college, tried his hand at a soul sucking job, and when his employer found out he was blogging under a pen name, they still threatened him with being fired.  This not being exactly conducive to having the "freedom of speech" and with no real job prospects that were promised to him like the 1950's, he went on a South American trip which laid the foundation for what would be his career - traveling to different countries and then writing about how to get laid in these countries. Of course, while that sounds great it wasn't easy. Traveling on buses in South America, constantly going to clubs, learning new languages, and the meticulous level of detail he had to take in terms of notes and writing made it a real (albeit exciting) job.  But the larger point is that SJW's, socialism, leftism and feminism had made the US so hostile, if not impossible for the "9-5 job and wife with children and a white picket fence," he was practically compelled to go down this route of self-employment.But what is doubly ironic is how precisely he makes his money.  Most entrepreneurs can still be threatened by SJW's.  The cupcake shop that doesn't make cupcakes for lesbians.  The pizzeria that theoretically would not deliver pizzas to a gay wedding.  They have a product that can still be assailed, assaulted, held hostage, and destroyed.But what if your job is merely countering the political, economic, social, and psychological environment SJW's created?  What if your job is to unplug as many Neo's out of "the Matrix?"  What if your job is nothing more than being an SJW hunter?  This is why Roosh is simply immune to any SJW's attacks.  It's because he not only has nothing they can threaten or take hostage, but because his business is a direct result and response to the environment SJW's and leftists have created.Alas, this is why Roosh is invincible against the SJW's and there's no way they can win.  Unlike Mortimer Snerd, loyal accountant at KMPG for 30 years, with a mortgage, two car loans, a wife about to divorce him, and three kids in college, they cannot threaten Roosh's career or family as it doesn't exist.  Worse for them, the more they attack, the more publicity he gets AND the more they get exposed for the psychopath, tyrants they are.  But what's worse for SJW's is there's (what I would estimate to be) millions more Rooshes with absolutely nothing to lose.  Men who grew up in and are by products of the SJW/feminist culture, and are thus immune to it.  My company, Asshole Consulting, NEEDS feminist, SJW culture to continue to brainwash young men and women into delusion otherwise I'd run out of clients.  Jack Donovan NEEDS SJW's to continue to emasculate young boys otherwise nobody would need his books on masculinity.  And that's just the tip of the iceberg when it has come to what is nothing more than a full-fledge industry of neo-masculinity that has arisen in the past decade to deprogram, explain, provide sanity to, and provide agency and purpose to MILLIONS of young men (and women) who are slowly waking up and realizing just how badly feminism, socialism, and their goose-stepping SJW's have ruined their lives.What SJW's around the world need to realize is that Canada is just the first instance where SJW's have met a monster of their own creation in the form of Roosh.  And not only can he not be stopped, but there are millions more who also have nothing to lose, are immune to you, and are very, very angry that you not only lied to them about the real world, but destroyed their birthright to western civilization. And there's nothing you can do to stop them. 










WOMEN











Divorce is Bad for Ballroom Dancing 
From a reader:I asked a very pretty, slender and young brunette to dance. I asked her for experience level, and she said she had only taken the free lesson once but that she liked to spin. So spin her I did. She was one of the best follows I'd ever led, despite having so little experience she just went where I led her, swung-out and spun as I told her. She just flowed. It was great. She had the warmest smile on her face the entire time...Contrast to later that evening, an older (at least 50s) woman asked me to dance, so I obliged. She was nearly impossible to lead. She was rigid, immobile, unresponsive and gave me no smile. I've danced with other older women, and most weren't nearly so difficult to lead. Though it is not a 100% correlation, I will testify with my now 16 years of dance instruction that divorced women are harder to dance with and for precisely the reasons our fine young reader implied - they are psychologically predisposed against following.Yes, there is an element of "can't teach an old dog new tricks" but that applies equally to men and women.  By the time a student is 50+ I have seen less aptitude to learn new moves in both sexes.  But divorced women (regardless of age) were more often than not a bear to instruct, let alone dance with.They'll turn on their own. They'll initiate the dance even though the leader hasn't started.  They'll assume the move you try to start and execute the wrong one, and (should they actually wait for you to start leading a turn) they will IMMEDIATELY execute the turn with no regard to the beat or timing by which the turn should be executed, resulting in them getting out of the turn ahead of the lead and way ahead of the beat.   Now all women to a certain extend do this when they are learning. They are merely trying to "help," but what I always teach the beginning women in my class is that following is a psychological skill.  There is nothing they can "do" or "start" or "help" with because "helping" "initiating" or "doing" is antithetical to following.  They must RESPOND, not initiate or do.After explaining this most women get it and start following splendidly.  However, I can almost pick out the divorced women in that they are the ones where my philosophical explanation of following went into one ear and out the other.  They still initiate, they still lead, and some go even so far to say, "well, my partner won't lead, I HAVE TO!" Or, I've even had it so far where the woman giggles and says, "oh, I'm not good at following.  I have to lead" COMPLETELY ignorant to the fact that it goes against the dynamics and mechanics of dancing making it IMPOSSIBLE for her to dance with any one.Sure enough, they fight, they toil, they get frustrated.  Some even go so far as to instruct their current dance partner (I have them rotate) talking over me, telling him what "he's doing wrong," while I'm trying to address the exact same problems they "think" they're solving.  The field trips ensue and you get to know them personally and I'd say about 7 out of 10 times you find out they're divorced.  The remaining 3 women obviously displaying signs of "Grrrrl Power (TM)" and "moxie" belying their psychological disadvantage to learning to follow.But rip apart the ladies all I want, there is another side to the coin, and that is the men.  Divorced men, but more so, singles-group men, desperately trying to find a wife at my dance class.  They're there because they either got divorced or never found a gal and it shows.  They plain can't lead.  They're afraid, they take no risks.  The qualities and traits that send women screaming.They're polite, they look at theirs partner's feet hoping to plagiarize the moves instead of listening to me.  They get railroaded once they dance with the divorcee woman with moxie, telling him how he's screwing up, constantly talking to him so he can't head the beat, let alone me yelling out the moves.  When it comes time to turn the girl, they lift a limp wristed arm up SUGGESTING, not COMMANDING the woman to turn.  They also lack the psychological understanding of the word "leader" and instead think a ballroom dance is done by committee and compromise.  They're almost as bad as the husband who is forced to come to dance class, but plain refuses to participate in an attempt to punish his wife with stubborn poutiness.The best students I have are what you would expect the best relationships to be - the man is the leader, and the woman helps him and is supportive.  There is no "co-leading" or "committee" or "compromise." Without a doubt the best "couple" students I've had were the happily married couples.  And by "happily married" I mean it was obvious they were still having sex.  The man was the man.  He led, he commanded.  His wife was turned on, had a smile on her face and was only too happy to support and help him.  You knew they would go home and have sex immediately after class.Of course, I know even though my observations above come from 16 years of empirical experience, they are politically incorrect.  Having "roles," especially traditional ones forced on people or even advocated is verbotten by the leftist thought police.  Divorced, empowered women are GREAT ballroom dancers!  And timid, shy, compliant men are AWESOME ballroom dancers too!  It's just you evil patriarchs applying your "labels" and "definitions" on people as "lead" and "follow" that make the dance not what it should be.  Besides, who are you to say the couple who work as a flawless team to the point they are one on the dance floor is any better than the spineless, limp 54 year old beta male as he futilely tries to lead his 52 year old divorcee partner as she lectures him while he's trying, resulting in what looks to be a disjointed dance akin to a drunk man trying to pilot a revolting dump truck!  That's just your evil, traditionalist patriarchy sexism shining through. 
No Rings for Liberal Women 
As I'm enjoying the decline today I will be providing the cliff notes version of my thoughts.  You can fill in the rest.In short, women, especially single women, heavily prefer to vote for socialism.I don't think they even know why beyond a "I want to help the children" or "spending money on the unfortunate sounds nice."  Subconsciously, even consciously, though, I believe they also like the idea of having a father/husband/provider figure in the form of the government in that it not only fulfills the financial-provider role, but there is no payment or consequences for such services.  They need not to commit to any one man.  They need not to be held to a certain set of standards by any one man.  They need not rear their own children nor pay for their children.  100% freedom with 0% responsibility.  In short, no earthly man can compete with the metaphorical "Supreme State Alpha Man" because we (unlike the state) do not have access to the entire financial resources of a $15 trillion economy.Now, again, as I mentioned in my previous post, it doesn't matter what you would LIKE to happen or how you would LIKE things to be.  This IS how things ARE.  You must accept that and adapt to this environment.  Women prefer the government over men.Or do they?It is here I have an evil smirk on my face.What's the one thing the government can't provide to a woman?That's right, intimacy.  Namely marriage.  But everything that goes through their brains when you mention "marriage.""Their day.""Rocking chair time.""Frivolities in the kitchen.""Romantic dinners."Everything society has built up in their little minds as to just how glorious marriage and the married life is CANNOT be provided by the state.  And it is the one thing you have that they want.  And want it they will when they realize all the government programs in the world won't cuddle up next to her in bed on a cold winter night.Therefore gentlemen I say "no rings for liberal chicks."You want to jack up my taxes so you can major in Social Work or English or some other such hobby? Fine, no ring for you.You want to jack up my taxes to pay for your unnecessary government job as a "child counselor?"  Fine, no ring for you.You want to jack up my taxes to rear and educate your children?  Fine, no ring for you.You want to jack up my taxes because you think you have a right to it and are going to spend it on people you deem "less fortunate?"  Fine, no ring for you.Women have made it very clear who they want to take care of them.  The state.  Of course that still means "us" because we pay the taxes, but with the state acting as a middle man or intermediary, we no longer get to attach strings to said funds meaning there are no standards in terms of how our money is spent (frugally preferably), how our children are raised (by parents, not the state or the education system), how our labor market works (the best are hired, not quotas) and how our economy is ran (with no government interference, not government omnipotence) or what investments are made (infrastructure, not "the chillllldrnnnnnn").You liberal women made it very clear who you want to marry.  You want to marry Big Daddy G (government).  And I find it hard to propose to somebody who's already married.  I suggest men get a little bit of self-respect here and do the same.  
Dating the 30 Something HR Lady 
My genuine loathing for HR is no secret.  I believe HR is the single largest non-public sector threat to the private sector and thus, America.  I also believe the vast majority of HR "professionals" are power hungry, sexist, bigoted and incompetent.  I believe HR was created as an affirmative action program for women (this is starting to sound like the Nicene Creed).  And I believe because of HR's power trip, it has become an agent of compliance and ego-stroking, not performance.  This has resulted in an echo chamber that employs only the most bland, unimaginative, but ass-kissing employees, resulting in compliance now, but condemning employers to a Black Swan event in the future.Yes, I hate HR.But one of the more interesting observations I had a while ago was how HR (which is predominantly headed up by 20-50 something women) is starting to take on personal traits of said women, namely, dating. The questions asked by women in HR are identical to dating questions.  This is not necessarily a bad thing in that you do want a personal fit as well as a professional fit, but I ask a simple question:How successful are these HR ladies in their loves lives?Miserable I presume based on the now-approaching-score of HR women I've known (I've also known most of them to have BIG financial troubles in addition to their romantic troubles).  But that's my point.  If they're so bad at screening for candidates in their romantic lives, how good are they plying the same screening techniques for candidates in their professional lives?Lousy of course.  But don't let that stop them.  No, we have to still ask dating questions.In the end this will all burst like all Black Swan event bubbles do.  Having a myopic view, presuming your premises are always correct and you know what you're doing, will result in an inbreeding amongst your employees and corporate culture.  Innovators, leaders, revolutionaries, creators and non-conformists will never be allowed in, and if they are, they will be immediately identified by the HR-white-blood cells of the corporate being and immediately dealt with and fired.  Without these "free radicals" your entity will lose vision and purpose.  It will also lose the ability to identify any threats as well as opportunities that will destroy/benefit your company.  You will stagnate and it's only a matter of time before one of those particularly entrepreneurial free radicals gets some financing and either replaces or obsoletes your firm.But hey, by all means, you keep asking the top graduate from MIT"Where he sees himself in 5 years.""What's his favorite movie and why?""If you could be an animal, which one would it be and why?"I'm sure it prove just as successful as your dating life. 
Ferris Bueller Syndrome for Feminists 
Ferris Bueller's Day Off is a movie that everybody knows and if you haven't seen it, then quit being a communist terrorist traitor and watch it.Good, you done watching it?Thank you.Now we can move on.I cannot find the source, but I remember somebody putting together a study about the feasibility of doing everything Ferris and his crew did in the movie and whether there was enough time in a day to do it all.Ferris loafed around until at least 10AM until Cameron picked him up in his sh$tty BMW.Then they stole Sloan from Winnetka High. Then they:Went to a Cub's gameWent to Sear's TowerWent to a Chez LouisCruised on Shore Line DriveWent to the Chicago Art MuseumAttend/participate in a paradeand a ton of other stuff.In short, it was mathematically impossible with commute times and commitment times to do what Ferris and his friends did.So what makes American women so sure they can do the same and "have it all?"I'm sorry, the math just does not compute.You are going to go to college for a bachelor's degree.  You graduate when you're 23 because I don't see the caliber and quality of youth today graduating in four years like they should.Add another two years because you invariably majored in a worthless liberal arts degree which mandates you get a masters (because THAT will get you a job).You're 25.Look for a job for a year, intern for another, and if you're really, really lucky you FINALLY land a "real job in your field" at the age of 27.Congratulations!  You're JUST STARTING YOUR CAREER!Well, you have to prove yourself, so the next 4 years are solely dedicated to your taxpayer-financed "social worker programmer assistant directorship adjutant position."31.You need to constantly go to CPE and get new certifications and just aren't done "partaying" yet, so another 4 years until you get the credentials and experience for the promotion.35.You really should get your doctorate or the utmost credentials in your field.37.Why, you invested so much time into your career, you can't start a family now!  You need to reap the beneifts of your investment.  Besides, my millionaire, investment-banking, astronaut, surgeon, motorcycle-riding bad boy, sensitive 90's man is just around the corner!  JUST LIKE I PLANNED IT!42."Where are all the good men?  Why can't I find a good man?  Dirty disgusting men chasing after all those 22 year old harlots!  They're just intimidated by a POWERFUL, SUCCESSFUL (now scream)INDEPENDENT WOMAN!!!!!!!!I'll get intro-fertilization!  I don't need no stinking man!48."Why can't I find a man?  I'm a "ready-made family!"  My son is a straight A honor student at his local elementary school!  He recycled the most garbage in his class and knows how to identify 100% certified grade A organic produce!  He also plays the cello and is not predisposed to being male or female, just "who he is."  I enrolled him at the local charter school for arts.  He makes the best 100% certified green finger paintings.  I have a showing at the local middle school talent show!"52.My son wants to major in music therapy, I co-signed his student loans.  No man has decided to marry me yet, but that's alright.  I meditate with yoga and hang out with "50's are the New Hippies" group and we all talk about organic coffee, Trader Joe's, and Whole Foods and rationalize away why no man has decided to man-up and marry us!  It's obvious!  They're too intimidated by us!  Why, just the other day I saw a decent jogger get out of his Prius look at me, and he RAN AWAY!  Can you believe it!  He just can't handle a real woman!58."Harmony, my son...that's what I named him.  SHUT UP!!!  It's a perfectly good name!  You're just a close-minded sexist, bigotted, racist, misogynist, asshole!  Well, anyway, he finally finished his bachelor's degree in music therapy.  He can't find a job, but that's because of George Bush that nazi fascist!  So his professors told him about this $75,000 program he can attend and get his MASTERS in Music Therapy!  I'm so proud of my son!  He started a band you know! "Pee Piper and the Pip Pop Pips!"  It's really underground, modern, minimalism music that most people are too uncultured to understand.  The fact so few people attend his concerts is only proof he's that good.  I'm so proud of my little Harmony!"  I need money, I think I can sue the sperm donor at the sperm bank for some money!  He owes it to me.  He did provide the sperm afterall.63.So Harmony decided he loves his mother so much he decided to move back home with me.  We get along so well. He plays his acoustic guitar and I make us organic herbal tea.  He mightbe able to play at the local Starbucks next week!  I'm going to go talk to the other young hip women at the coffee shop and see if they want to attend.  Why, just because we're in our 60's doesn't mean we don't look hot.  Why, 63 is the new 45!  That's what Oprah tells me!  So it must be true!70.Why doesn't Harmony visit me anymore?  I've been nothing but his BFF and he meets some harlot in Indonesia with the money I gave him for his charity trip!  Joined some insane religious cult and now is off helping orphans in some foreign land and not his mother!  Why, with Mittens and Boots (my new cats), we could be one big happy family!80.Why are there so few men at this nursing home!?  They had all the privilege and all the power!  They had the cushy lifestyle!  Why do those greedy bastards keep dying off so early!  How can that be when they were raping us and pillaging us and benefiting from their "good ole boys network!"  Sexist, misogynist bastards!82.Dead and with nothing to show for it.Heh, heh.  Enjoy the decline!  
Why Men (and Women) Hate Feminism 
A while ago I received an e-mail from one of my female readers.  She was being honest and polite, but wanted to know precisely what I had against feminism.  It was along the lines of "feminism is about the equal treatment of women, so what is so bad about that?"  However, like many other women, I don't believe she was fully aware as to just how far the feminist movement has gone, co-opting women and how far from the truth it is.  Thus, I believe it would be to everybody's benefit to explain in detail why most readers here in the Capposphere and elsewhere are against feminism (and to see if I'm missing any other reasons).Reason #1 - Myopic View of the SexesIf there is a "primary" reason I would have to say this is it.  Feminism started demanding changes in regards to women, with no consideration as to what would happen to the other half of society, ie - men.  They also did not think it through and consider children as well.  It was a very female-centered approach and nobody considered (let alone, cared) how actions/changes/etc. in women would affect the rest of society.  You still see this today based on the policies advocated by feminism in that it is all about women.  A secondary concern is given to the children (more often than not, using children as a means to extract government resources), and maybe a tertiary concern is given to men.Reason #2 - Lies About Human NatureA close second is the ludicrous concept that men and women are not just equal, but the same.  Women can do what men can do.  There are no biological differences.  And any difference is viewed as sexism or oppression.The problem is these differences are what makes men and women great.  Men like women.  Women like men.  Men don't like manly women, and women don't like girly men.  We enjoy the difference.  All feminism has done is ruined the love lives of millions of other women (and men's as well) lying to youth about "being a sensitive 90's man"or a "strong independent woman."  That men are "shallow" and "cheap" for liking long legs and big boobs, and that any man who is worth his weight in salt will "like you for you."  Women now ignore these basic biological facts about male sexuality, even mocking and scorning them, and fail to attract men.These lies about the "exact sameness" of men and women also destroy a vital component of our economy and society - the division of labor.  Though nobody is ordained or condemned to play these roles, traditionally the wife would stay home, while the husband would work.  This allowed for not only better families, but better reared children.  It also allowed for happier people (as men are predisposed to go out and work and women are predisposed to stay at home and rear a family).  Neither role was inferior to the other.  Both were vital, but it was feminism that lied to millions of younger women telling them the grass was greener on the other side.  The result has been an increase in divorce, less stable family, less financially stable families, and problem children incapable of becoming functioning adults in society.  This has also resulted in women being less happy.Reason #3 - False Claims of SexismThe thoroughly debunked "wage gap" is getting mighty tiresome.  It is a false argument used only to gain "victim" status by feminists to result in legislation that unfairly benefits women.  Affirmative action is nothing more than discrimination against men.  Most men resent thisReason #4 - Not Pulling Your WeightThe wage gap, however, does prove something.  Women, for all their clamor of independence and "what you can do I can do better" are failing miserably and only achieving about 76% of what men do.  This in spite of all the handicaps of affirmative action, a media that is always supportive, and limitless educational and government programs.  Of course, the wage gap is not 100% "proof women aren't pulling their own weight."  Many women still take on traditional roles and rear children, some drop out of the work force to take care of their families.  But when it comes to majoring in rigorous studies, producing things of economic value, and being economically-contributing members of society, they disproportionately fail.  They account for more government workers than men, they account for easier subjects in college than men, and they are nowhere to be seen in dangerous or risky jobs.  Women on the whole are NOT equal when it comes to economic production.Reason #5 - Poor Stewardship of the Right to VoteThis is more of an opinion, but I believe it is an opinion held by the majority of men (and surprisingly, women) who hate feminism (so you may not agree the the political opinion, but it IS a reason some people hate feminism).  In short, feminists have been poor stewards of their right to vote.  I say this because they have consistently as a group voted for more government and less freedom since given the right to vote.  I believe this is because it is in women's nature to be more caring than men, and thus tend to vote for "nicer" things.  Children, health care, education, etc.  However, "feelings" and "caring" have no place in government finances.  That requires passionless thought and consideration, research, mathematics, and an understanding of history and economics.  It also requires an appreciation for the freedom granted to us by our forefathers and an understanding of the role government was intended to play.  Feminists have proven ignorant about these topics and vote with their hearts, not their heads (and more recently, just for plain politics).Reason #6 - Replacing Men With the StateClosely related to #5 is that feminists and feminism advocates essentially replacing the husband and father with the state.  This is abundantly clear when you see how much money and support single mothers get not to mention this macabre desire by some feminists to eliminate men from the birthing process altogether.  Not only does this take away the two most important things in a man's live (his theoretical would-be wife and children), but essentially forces men to compete against the government as a much-better financed suitor.  Not only do men lose out on love and family, any children brought into this world via Daddy Government are missing a real father and will suffer incredibly later in life.Reasons #7 - HypocrisyWhile most hard core feminists will claim they're "independent," they're anything but.  They are usually the first to have some kind of make-work government job, some kind of professorship nobody asked for, or begging and pleading for donations to some kind of "activist group."  They typically produce nothing of value and require the state to transfer other people's money to create jobs for them.  They even point out, point blank, they want more government money for them and/or their children in government policy.  And while, yes, there may be that one feminist computer engineer, the vast majority of them are hopelessly dependent.Reason #8 - Backlash for the Ruination of Women/Men/LivesIn general and summarizing some of the above, most people haven't sat down to think things through to the point they can articulate why the are so frustrated or angry with the opposite sex, let alone what role feminism played in this angst.  But both sexes are painfully aware of the lower quality men and women of today.  Modern day western women are on the whole unmarriageable, and modern day western men are no where near capable of being a provider or protector.  As they ponder these things, however, they will start to realize just what a bunch of BS and lies they were fed in their youth.  Lies about the sexes, the roles people were supposed to play, how the sexes were to interact with one another, and what people "should and should not like."  As people age, they will see the best thing in their lives (namely, members of the opposite sex) ruined and spoiled, and consequentially the quality of their own lives ruined as well.  Men now have to settle for women they're not attracted to, women have to settle for men who are effeminate and clueless, all because a bunch of women in the 1970's were miserable with their lives and (as far as I can tell) merely wanted everybody else to be miserable like them.  When people put two and two together, they will see it was feminism that warped and thus ruined this aspect of their lives and they will get angry.Those are the 8 primary reasons I could come up with.  I think there may be more, but at minimum I hope it debunks feminism as simply being the "equal treatment of women" and clears up some things on both sides of the aisle. 
The Dowd Crowd 
This post is intended to help all women, but primarily women under the age of 30.  I cannot emphasize enough how sincere and honest I am about this statement - this post is intended to help you.  It may not seem it at first, but if you can permit yourself an open mind and hear me through you will see that not only is that my intention, but the post itself will actually prove helpful, especially to younger women.If you don't know Maureen Dowd, don't worry.  It just means you're not old.  But to give you the quick 1-2 on her she is arguably the original "East coast, liberal, feminist woman who lives in New York and pines about socio-romantic topics, as well as politics" type gal (hence referred to as ECLFWWLINYAPASRTAWAP).  Three decades ago she was "hot" and not just physically, but publishing wise as well.  Sure she'd dispense advice on politics and economics, but an edge she had was on relationships with men with a feminist twist.  Men aren't needed.  Who needs men.  Women are the new up and coming leaders, blah blah blah.  She was heralded, many newspapers (remember those things) wanted to publish her and because of her moxie, she sold.30 years later Maureen Dowd has paved the way for a new generation of "East coast, liberal, feminist women who live in New York and pine about socio-romantic topics, as well as politics" type gals.  Obviously younger than her, they still dispense courtship, dating and romantic advice to younger women through a feminist and liberal lens.  And though they deliver their message through a new media, the message largely remains unchanged.  If anything, it is a more purified and modern version of feminism and leftism.But I had this nagging thought.  And, as I'm prone to do, I researched it.Maureen has been dispense advice for all these years.  And her disciples, some not so young, have also been dispensing advice for years.Since they seem to be experts on dating, romance, men, and courtship, just how successful have they been in their lives in these regards, and therefore, should young women even be listening to them in the first place.Off the bat I will admit this is not 100% scientific.  This is "what I had to work with."  If you can believe me I was intellectually honest in my research and data mining because I too was curious what the reality was.  In short I was not looking for any one answer, but I genuinely wanted to know if these "experts" who consult, advise, and inform the younger women of today as to how to go about their love lives (not to mention professional lives) know what the hell they're talking about.  The first step was to get a list of all the "ECLFWWLINYAPASRTAWAP's."  After eliciting my readership for a list, as well as compiling known women that would fall into this category, I came up with the following ECLFWWLINYAPASRTAWAP's:Virginia HeffernanSandra Tsing LohEllen FeinElizabeth GilbertMaureen DowdEmily Bazelon Lindy WestAmanda MarcotteJessica ValentiJill FilipovicCarolyn HaxHanna RosinPamela Gwyn KripkeLiz JonesMillie KerrLori GottliebNow keep in mind, though the tone of my post thus far sounds hostile, I tried my best to make this list as intellectually honest and scientific as possible.  For example many people would say, "Why is Lori Gottlieb on there?  She came out admitting she was wrong!"Correct, but for all those years she DID dispense advice as a ECLFWWLINYAPASRTAWAP.  Her epiphany or realization is after the fact.Or for example I did not put Kate Bolick or Kay Homywitz on the list, despite my readership saying I should, in that they did not write articles that were of the feminist variety ECLFWWLINYAPASRTAWAP's did.Additionally a lot of my readers just sent me feminists in general.  There was a feminist lawyer, a handful of professors, but none of them were "writers" or "journalists" who opined about dating and men. In short the list is the most comprehensive list of your stereotypical, left wing, feminist widsom dispensing journalists who for some reason all need to live on the east coast (I will entertain more to add to my database to further improve my research).  They met these criteria and there is no "passion" or "emotion" about it.The next thing I did was research their profiles to the extent I could to find out the following traits or "variables" about them:Are they Currently Married?Have They Ever Been Divorced?Was their Undergraduate Degree in a Real (STEM) Field?Do They Have Children?Their Looks on a Scale of 1-10 (as rated by me)Do They Have an Advanced Worthless DegreeAre They Employed in "Real Private Sector Work?"AgeThe reason I picked these variables is because I believed these metrics would not only be of interest to younger women (as to measure their success in romantic and courtship life), but they sure as hell are to men.  Ergo, while there may be some debate as to whether young women would find these variables the correct ones to measure success, there is no debate whatsoever these are the variables men definitely look at.Are they Currently Married?As it stands right now the majority of the ECLFWWLINYAPASRTAWAP's are not married.  Only 37.5% were married.  I did take some liberty with the younger ECLFWWLINYAPASRTAWAP's where it was clear they weren't, so there is some room for criticism there, but the fact does not change that the majority of them are not married.  It should also be of note not ONE of the ECLFWWLINYAPASRTAWAP's is under 30.  So it's not like these are recent college graduates just getting their careers off the ground.  They're been around for a while and very few are married.However, in intellectual honesty I do have to state that if you take out the 30 somethings and just focus on the 40+ crowd 55% are married.Therefore if you are a young woman and your goal is to be married by your 30's there is a less than 38% chance of that happening.  However, if you wait till you're 40's or older, there's only a 45% chance you won't reach that goal, chances akin to "betting on red" in roulette.Ever Divorced?Nobody likes divorce.  I think I can safely say that without leftist nit-pickers saying some people do.Half of theECLFWWLINYAPASRTAWAP's  have been divorced.Normally this would not be concern for alarm because "half of all marriages end in divorce."  The problem is that women with college degrees statistically have significantly lower divorce rates.  And all of these women have at least a bachelors.  In other words, they are doing worse than their peer group.  Unless you consider divorce a "success" (which no doubt some of them do), their performance have failed in this regard.Worthless Undergad My hatred and loathing of worthless degrees is no secret.  But my passion against these worthless scraps of paper does not change the fact that those who are less intelligent, less rigorous, and just plain lazy pursue easier degrees.  Only 1 woman in the ECLFWWLINYAPASRTAWAP group has a worthwhile undergrad (Sandra Tsing Loh, surprisingly), the rest all have what can be considered worthless degrees (English and Journalism accounting for nearly all of them).  Admittedly there is some selection bias in most of these people are "journalists/writers" but it does not change the fact that at the age of 18 they purposely and knowingly chose cake degrees that avoided math at all costs (it is also interesting to note how many of them "married" into a magazine or a sizable blog)Do They Have Children?Good news young ladies.  60% of them do have children!  And remember, about 5 of the ECLFWWLINYAPASRTAWAP's are still in their 30's.  So if you want to have kids there's a good chance that will happen.  But there is a drawback.  Of the women past menopause or at the age where it's too risky to have children (my cut off was 44) one third will go childless throughout their lives.Single MomsOnly 25% of these women are single moms.  Admittedly some by choice, because many of them subscribe to the philosophy fathers aren't needed (one even saying single mothers are better than married parents for the children).  But it is still good news you only stand a 1 in 4 chance of being a single mom.  However, remember a fair amount of these women were "young" still in their 30's and never married, thereby not allowing them the chance to become single mothers.  If you go to 40+ 44% of them are single mothers.  In short, in order to get divorced and be a single mom you have to live long enough to get married, have kids, and then get divorced.  Though, again, many in this control group would not be against the turkey baster method.LooksThe average score of a ECLFWWLINYAPASRTAWAP is a surprisingly average 5.39.  Also of note was just how plain and average most of them were.  Nearly half fell in the 4.5-5.5 range.  The high score was an 8.5 and the low score was a 2.75.  Scoring was based on what I found attractive.  Scoring was also not adjusted for age.  If the woman WAS hot in her youth, it didn't matter.  If she was old she got a lower score.  It was my visceral response to what she looks like today.  I also had to search high and low for "real" pictures.  Not glossied up, "glamor shot" pics.  Which I found out that feminists would resort to such fake, patriarchal nonsense that was beneath them. Advanced Worthless DegreesA statistic merely to quench my curiosity, 53% of ECLFWWLINYAPASRTAWAP's have advanced degrees.  Naturally all of these advanced degrees were in worthless fields, namely English, Journalism, and Law.Real EmploymentReal employment is defined as genuine economic production that people willingly pay for and is not the consequence of nepotism, cronyism, government financing, or non-profits.  Namely, are you producing something of value or are you in a field that produces something of value.  Again, sample bias skews this statistic as I do not consider blogging or modern day journalism a real profession (let alone for "Slate" or "Salon" or your husband's newspaper), but I did award full and partial points if they had written a book or something that people willingly purchased and seemed to have some genuine economic productive value.  23% of them can be considered "legitimately employed."AgeThe average age of the ECLFWWLINYAPASRTAWAP's was 43.6 years.  30 was the youngest (which was a charitable estimate) and 61 was the oldest.Other Non-Statistical ObservationsNearly all of these women are employed by/write for Salon, Slate, Huffington Post, and Jezebel.  It suggests to me an oligopoly or cartel wherein the network is tight, the cadre is small, but because of the reach and connections within the blog/journalism/east coast media monopoly they seem larger and more influential than they really are.Supporting this is the sheer number of what I would consider "faux awards" these women received.  Everyone seemed to have multiple awards from multiple organizations, most of which I've never heard of.  After reading enough profiles you didn't "get the impression," you outright knew these were nothing but a bunch of "pat yourself on the back participation trophies."  The impression of this segment of American media I was left with was that it was nothing more than a house of cards.  All "yea for us we're all winners" akin to the minimalist art community.  In other words any kind of media presence they have is largely fabricated, but necessary to market their writing/product.Non-profit employment was rife.  Again, suggesting the free market where people willingly part with their dollars was not the driving force or purpose behind their employment, but rather charity or politics in the form of a non-profit benefactor.The Question I Have for Young WomenNow, let's summarize all the ECLFWWLINYAPASRTAWAP's into one imaginary "cumulative, average woman."The average ECLFWWLINYAPASRTAWAP is:

a 44 year old woman
who is unlikely to be married
likely to be divorced
likely to have children
with a good chance she will be a single mother
doesn't have a real degree or a real profession
but went to school for 6 years on average for it anyway 
and is very average looking coming in at a 5.4

Do you REALLY want to become that?I don't care what they write.  I don't care what they say.  And I don't care how sweet it may sound to your young, naive, gullible and VERY INEXPERIENCED ears.Do you really want to be a divorced, middle aged woman with a hobby that you desperately try to pawn off as a career?Look, while it may be cool, even intellectually stimulating, even "empowering" to think of men as the enemy, to think of men as "oppressors," or to use words fabricated in academia like "patriarchy" or "male normative," all you are doing in the long run is merely alienating yourself from the other half of the population to have some false sense of pride in your youth.  The other half that (despite what the ECLFWWLINYAPASRTAWAP's would say) can and most likely WILL play a vital role to your future happiness.What you have to do is THINK INDEPENDENTLY and not let the ECLFWWLINYAPASRTAWAP's indoctrination ruin your life by transforming you into one of them.  Realize there is nothing wrong with liking men, or wanting to have children, or wanting a husband, or (GASP) wanting to be a housewife or stay-at-home mom. Additionally, there's nothing wrong with being beautiful or feminine or the epitome of female.  There's nothing wrong with dresses, there's nothing wrong with heels, there's nothing wrong with long hair and (GASP!) there's nothing wrong finding joy in pleasing your husband/boyfriend/man. This isn't to say you HAVE to be a stay at home mom and CAN'T pursue a degree in accounting, but in listening to the utter hogwash and tripe that is perpetrated by the ECLFWWLINYAPASRTAWAP's of the world you ignore your natural and biological programming to become the best thing you ever can be - a woman!The Male's PerspectiveFinally, if the argument for enjoying being feminine, being beautiful, and being a woman isn't enough, you better do what your ECLFWWLINYAPASRTAWAP counterparts didn't and that is one very important thing:Think of the men.If there is ONE criticism I have of ALL women's writing (ECLFWWLINYAPASRTAWAP's or not) it's not an emotional one, it's a mathematical one.  If two people are going to date, court, get married, etc., why is 100% of the attention and strategy on the woman?  Why is the man or what the man wants never given any consideration?The problem with ECLFWWLINYAPASRTAWAP's approach to men and courtship is that it's myopic (look it up).  They are only focused on themselves.  But in ignoring what mathematically adds up to 50% of an equation, you are GUARANTEED to fail miserably at solving it.  If you want a successful relationship with a man then you (GASP!) HAVE TO CONSIDER WHAT THE MAN WANTS!So ask yourself, what man wants a:44 year old womanwhose been divorcedhas somebody else's kidsdoesn't have a real jobhas student debt from her worthless masters is only a 5.4 and has a lippy feminist attitude to boot?Are you kidding?  Not one man wants that!  Not one!  And the only reason a man might settle for that is because he IS SETTLING and can't get any better.A man who is accomplished, interesting, independent, successful, confident and in shape will NEVER marry, court, date, let alone give the time of day to such a woman.  The type of man you want would NEVER even entertain a ECLFWWLINYAPASRTAWAP.You may find that offensive.  You may find that rude.  You may find it disagreeable, but all of that is trumped by the fact it is true.It's up to you whether you want to:accept the truth, act accordingly and consequently stand a better chance at a successful love lifeorcontinuing listening to the ECLFWWLINYAPASRTAWAP's, in which case you're likely to become one. 
My "Russian Ballet Dancer" Story 
It was about five, maybe six years ago.The salsa scene in Minneapolis was at its peak and I was also at the peak of my game.  I was in the top 5% of salsa dancers, I was able to bench 175 pounds, run 10 miles, and there really wasn't a girl that said no.  I was making great coin both teaching dance and in banking, and not that I wasn't confident before, but I was supremely confident now.Thus when I saw the perfectly sculpted, tight little bodied brunette, I was unfazed in my approach.We danced ONE song.  I knew not to ask her to dance again that night.  She was too good looking.  Every player would be suffocating her.  I would demonstrate superior "market value" by dancing with every other girl in the club and wait till the next time I met her to dance.  I'd be aloof, and my aloofness would set me apart.Just one problem.When the song ended and I bid her farewell by saying, "thanks for the dance," she didn't leave, but rather followed me outside to where my friend and I had a table.  I didn't notice until I turned around to sit and saw that she had followed me out.This was odd.  She was about a 9.8.  No girl in the history of 9.8 girls ever did that.  And hotornot rated me only an 8.6, at least one standard deviation away to make this statistically significantly odd.She said, "Can I join you?"My friend and I looked at each other, mentally shrugged our shoulders at one another, and said "sure."She was Russian.  Formally trained as a ballet dancer and had performed many times in Moscow.  She moved to the states about 6 years ago and was currently attending the University of Minnesota for a degree in Business.  I also went to the same school and so an intelligent and familiar conversation broke out.It was soon apparent to me and my friend that this woman was definitely from the former Soviet Bloc.  She was cultured, she was educated, she spoke intelligently, she was polite, she was skinny, and above all else, she didn't seem to play games.  She wanted to sit and talk with us and even asked me to dance a couple more times.  Had I been just 2 years younger I would have entertained idealistic thoughts of her being "The One," but experience and cool head made it so I played my cards right.  After another 90 minutes of conversation, interspersed with me excusing myself to dance "with another friend," I said I had to get home to go to bed (which I didn't) and left the club.  We exchanged numbers and if I recall correctly, she called me first.  She wanted to go dancing again.We went on a couple genuine "dates."  Nothing seemed to be wrong with this girl.  She was intelligent, she had a sense of humor, she picked up on my jokes, and we developed a handful of inside jokes which bonded us further.  I had the coveted "Russian Ballet Dancer" in my convertible and as far as I could tell, she was into me.After the token third date we returned to my house for the third-date-tradition-mandated sex.And that's when the other shoe dropped.It was apparent she was uncomfortable taking her clothes off.  Her body was perfect, so I had no idea why, but once we became intimate she started crying.I stopped and asked what was wrong.Turns out she was a mail order bride.  She was brought to the US by a sergeant in the airlift wing at Fort Snelling.  Apparently, he enjoyed beating the crap out of her while having sex, thus scarring her from sex for the rest of her life.  Again, if it was 2 years earlier, I would have had overly idealistic expectations and this would have phased me and made me angry.  By now I just learned there was always going to be a critical deal breaker with every girl.  Since sex was off the table, so was she, and we reverted to friendship.The next six months I would invite her out with my friends.  The reason she originally wanted to sit with me and my friend was that she just got out of her abusive relationship and had no social network.  Her husband made her a kept woman are rarely let her out of the house.  Having pity on her and wanting to make sure she could enjoy and healthy social life with quality friends I welcomed her into my "Crew."  We'd invite her out dancing, we took her to her first "drive in," and welcomed her into our little club.  I even had her come to my parent's house with other "Orphans" (friends whose parents lived too far away or were dead) for Christmas.  She was a good friend, but by the 7th or 8th month, she started becoming flaky.  We'd invite her out, she'd cancel at the last minute.  She said she was on her way, and she'd never show.  It got to the point she become "one of those people" who you could rely on being unreliable.I didn't inquire, let alone care, because I wasn't dating her, but she kept mentioning her new female friends she made and that they were always going to down town clubs.  She lived downtown and so it was convenient for her, but it become a less frequent event to see her, and a common event to have her flake.Her 30th birthday was coming and knowing she didn't have a cemented social network, just the teenybopper girls she was hanging out with, me and my friends decided to throw a surprise birthday party for her.  I even wrote her a spoof "children's book" to address an inside joke we had about Russian buffaloes.  Everybody was at my house.  We had the decorations, a big "Happy 30th Birthday Sign," and everybody was dressed up.It was 6:15, she was supposed to be there at 6:00.  Where was she?I called her.Sure enough, she said she was going to cancel on us and go night clubbing with her friends.I lost it.I yelled at her like a father would a spoiled and inconsiderate child.  I told her all of her friends had set aside time in their day to celebrate her 30th birthday and...well..you get the idea.She felt guilty enough she showed up, but I decided to 86 the evening plans we had for her.Instead of dinner at Mancini's I moved dinner to a shitty and cheap Chinese restaurant in the burbs.Instead of salsa dancing at Babalu, I said we *might* catch a movie.And instead of friends showing up, I had them scramble with the understanding we'd rendezvous after I'd ditch the ballet dancer at a yet to be determined venue.I even opted to hold onto the book I made for her because I found it an interesting conversation piece.What few people who did show up for the Chinese dinner didn't much talk to her.  I ignored her, and mere small talk was sent her way.  The tab came, nobody volunteered to pay for her "birthday dinner," and I said, "well, have a good night everybody."  And we left.  It was the last I'd see of her for 5 years.The "post game analysis" was one of unanimity.  We all came to the same conclusion, even the women - she was "Americanized."  She ran into a cackle of modern day, 20 something American bar flies that were accustomed to being the standard discourteous, inconsiderate flakes most American girls had become.  She went from a refined, dignified, adult, mature, intelligent, and interesting person, to just another typical shallow, hollow, mass-produced flake.  She went from something unique and special, to something common and worthless.  And in doing so she lost what I consider to be one of the highest quality group of friends and any shot at a man of better quality than her abusive sergeant ex-husband.It wasn't until I saw her 5 years later that time took its toll and delivered its revenge.  She didn't have the tight little body, she was pudgy.She didn't have perfectly smooth skin. It was starting to wrinkle.She didn't dress immaculately as she once did.  She was dressed unappealingly.  And I noticed her current cadre of friends were not as reliable or interesting as my Crew.I was glad to see she was so successful at transforming herself into another everyday, average American woman. 
Potemkin Women 
When I first moved to my current home and started establishing a rapport with the bartenders at the local pub that would become "my bar," I remember meeting two uppity 30 something women.  They were sharply dressed, boisterous, laughing and certainly the center of attention.  One was very attractive while the other was average.  Because they frequented "my bar" it was inevitable I would establish a relationship with them also.  This relationship was business in nature, but also short lived.They were in the "house staging/fashion" business and wanted me to help them with their finances.  I agreed, but found it difficult to consult them for they would constantly bail at the last minute, change meeting times, just plain forget or just plain not take my advice.  They were too busy and having too much "fun" with their business and details like "accounting" were deemed non-critical.Admittedly I was 1/4th attempting to get some kind of angle on the hot one, but after being stood up for yet another meeting I decided to end the business relationship and replace it with a "Minnesota Nice" relationship (one where you hate the other person, but fake being friendly so as not to disrupt the over all social environment).  It wouldn't have mattered anyway, because the hotter of the two made it very clear she was looking for a sugar daddy to take care of her.For the next couple of months they would come into my bar and some of the other local ones, always talking about their business loud enough for people to hear, and always ordering the priciest of drinks to further prove they were successful.  It was almost as if they were 20 year olds trapped in 37 year old bodies, who somehow made it seem "house staging and fashion design" was all about drinking, partying, networking and wearing fancy clothes.Then nothing.They disappeared.  They were gone.  And nobody took note, for it was the absence of annoyance that made things "normal" again, meaning you don't remember the moment you recover from a sickness, because that's the way you're supposed to feel normally.It wasn't until 6 months later that for whatever reason or another a neuron fired in my skull reminding me about the loud duo and so I asked the bartender,"Hey, whatever happened to Tweedle Dee and Tweedle Dumb?"The bartender laughed as he was cleaning out a wine glass. "I don't know what happened to Tweedle Dee, but Tweedle Dumb (the hotter one).  That's a funny story.  She would come in at another bar I work at across White Bear Lake and just get hammered.  She'd then start crying about how miserable she was, how should couldn't find a guy to marry her, and how her business was losing money.  I think they went out of business, but I haven't seen them in months."And thus was my first conscious observation of a Potemkin Woman.If you don't know what "Potemkin" is, it is a reference to a "Potemkin Village," a trick the Soviets used to make things look better than they actually were in Soviet Russia.  With poverty, lack of production, no bread, lines, and all the other wonderful benefits socialism brought them, the Soviet leadership hid this fact by making fake "villages" to make it look like everything was just hunky dory in the USSR.  So when journalists and tourists visited, they were shown the Potemkin villages, not the gulags or everyday Soviet misery.  It was nothing more than a ruse to make things look better than they actually were, and is the precisely same tactic many American and western women use today.You might ask why somebody would engage in such trickery, acting more important than they actually are.  But there are good reasons women use such a tactic, specifically it allows them to attain something that they personally cannot achieve or are too lazy to achieve.  Usually it is a higher status/richer man, but it could also be undue and undeserved business, undue and undeserved reputation, undue and undeserved attention, and undue and undeserved status.  And thus, very much like their midlife-crisis banker male counterparts, they put on the flashy clothes, talk a big game, act all independent, and scoff at people who are actually better than them.  Unfortunately, it is just a bluff.  A bluff that time and real life inevitable calls.  But unless you are aware of it, you can very likely fall for it and (like I did) waste precious time and resources dealing with such women.First, understand that Potemkin Women have been with us since they were little girls.  Middle school girls actually.  If there is an example of a Potemkin Village in America, it is middle school.  Nothing is real, it is all fake, and the most popular girls rule the roost by essentially faking it into college.  They have the fanciest clothes, they have a clique no one else can join, they have the latest gadgets.  However, if you've ever had the misfortune of dating one of these girls, you'd know they are typically psychological messes underneath.  Of course, this is rarely known or figured out because their ruse is so effective it intimidates boys (and girls) from ever approaching them, let alone dare questioning their legitimacy.Second, understand Potemkin Girls never mature into women who shed the fakeness and the ruse.  They merely become "Potemkin Women."  It worked so well as a child, why not continue the strategy?  They go to college, earn some worthless degree, go out and "partay," they dress sexy at night clubs and do the faux lesbian thing, only to reject the naive boys and men who dare to advance.  The ruse is so effective and society is only more than accommodating,  a lot of  young women actually start to believe their "Potemkin Life" is a real one.  They actually think they're that smart (when a 3.8 GPA as a Communications Major is laughable), they actually think they're in demand (while most 20 something men just want to have sex, not marry them), and they actually think they're going to succeed in life (as media, parents, colleges, government and every other facet of society lies to their face).  When in reality, they are merely setting themselves up for a spectacular failure and accruing debt at a pace of 4 $10 Cosmo Martini's a night on a 23% APR credit card.Finally, after getting married, divorced, and having no real skills to fall back on, not to mention, they're getting older, the 30 something Potemkin Woman puts on her best act.  She wears the clothes she can't afford, starts the business that has no hope, parades a reputation that has no truth, all in the hopes of being given one more chance at attention, money, love, and/or status.  However, here reality has reintroduced itself to the Potemkin Woman and I have seen it up front, close and personal.  And the difference between the show the Potemkin Woman puts on and her insecure self is stark.There was the salsa dancing 42 year old who WAS hot for her age and wore the most provocative outfits.  Of course she would only dance with the most accomplished salsa dancers.  But she broke down, crying one night at her house because her children hated her.There was 29 year old lawyer who made junior partner in record time and wouldn't even consider dating men who made less than her (including yours truly), only to end up alone at a bar a decade later with a mean scowl on her face that would scare away any man. There was the former model who at 48 still wanted to go to "night clubs."  She broke down crying as it looked increasingly likely her house would go into foreclosure.  And of course there's Tweedle Dee and Tweedle Dumb. Now I could go on retrospectively identifying all the Potemkin Women I've ran into, but the point is, especially for men (though women will also have to interact on a non-romatic or business level with Potemkin Women) is to realize just how hallow and miserable their lives really are.  The more posturing, parading and bragging you see, the more likely it is they go home and their lives are miserable.  That the woman who laughed at you in front of her friends when you offered to buy her a drink, goes home that very same night in a drunk stupor and cries herself to sleep because "she can't find a man."  I don't say this because I "want" it to be true or that I'm looking for some kind of "revenge" for women that spurned my advances.  I'm telling you because it IS true.  I've seen it.  I've seen the Potemkin Woman at home all by herself at 3AM, out of the public view...and she ain't pretty.  
Where's the Feminist Self-Improvement Counterpart? 
Victor Pride caught a lot of flak from feminists a while ago for his 30 Days of Discipline, some of the rules of which were unconventional.  But criticize his techniques as you might, the fact still remained that Victor wrote a manual with the intention of self-improvement.A couple months back I entered a "Forced Discipline and Regimen Month."  The goal of this was also self improvement.  To force myself to do this I put up before and after pictures.  I received some guff about "cheese cake photos" and my blinding pasteyness, but again, the overall intention was self-improvement.And while the two examples above focus on physic fitness and health, if you step back and cast a wider net, you'll realize The Manosphere, as well as various economics blogs, follow a similar parallel.  Namely one of self-improvement.  Men trying to improve their chances with women.  Men trying to advance their careers and financial success.  Men (and women) trying to start businesses. And men and women trying to aim for happier, better lives.  They are constantly asking "what can I do to improve myself."I have a simple question.Where is the feminist equivalent of this?If I were to generalize the two spheres (feminism and Manosphere) it seems very obvious The Manosphere is focused on self-improvement and improving one's self while the feminist sphere is one of whining, complaining, bitching, victimization and entitlement.  I say this not out of spite or agenda, but because it's true.The Manosphere, for the most part, is an entity of advancement, progress and self-improvement while feminism is one of complaint, victimhood, and class warfare.If you don't believe me, just take some sample "themes" from both spheres.HealthHow many feminist blogs/sites write constantly about physical fitness and health?  And I'm not talking about "how to eat green/organic" (the purpose of such articles being ulteriorly political, not health), but "how can I lose weight?" or "how can I be sexier to the opposite sex?"None or very little.Contrast that to The Manosphere where nearly I'd say 1/4th the articles revolve around health.  Heck, we even have entire blogs in our ranks dedicated solely to men's health.  And how candid and blunt are they compared to their feminist counterparts?  We are harsh and merciless upon our readers.  Telling, nay, yelling at our younger readers to lose weight, work out, eat their veggies and your personal preferences be damned.  You're going to do it son!  Whether you like it or not!And why do we do it?For women!  Not even ourselves! (though it is duly noted that this is so we can GET women, but the point is we at least change our behavior to match what women want).Education/Labor MarketAnother theme that shows where The Manosphere looks to self-improvement while feminists bitch is education.  Manosphere Men always ask whether or not the investment in college or training is worth it.  Underpinning this is not just the cost of education, but a long term financial strategy, the purpose of which is to achieve economic independence, self-reliance and freedom.  Thus, we pursue fields of study that have a positive and adequate ROI.  We also encourage younger men (and women) to pursue such fields based on our experiences.  We do not let the difficulty of math or science stand in our way, but commit ourselves to it instead knowing surmounting this challenge will pay much better dividends in the future.The feminist sphere on the other hand practically demands the right to attend college and have a job as an entitlement.  An entitlement of which more often than not proves to be a worthless hobby rather than the first step in a well-thought out, long term, SELF SUSTAINING financial strategy.  Then, when the economic realities of the labor market come bearing down on them, they NEVER ask what they can do differently to close the wage gap, but rather bitch, whine, complain and demand government intervention to undo what reality and their stupid decisions have done.Family/SpouseA huge percentage of The Manosphere is dedicated on how to be a better father, husband, lover and sex machine.  Yes, again, admittedly for our own desires, but I've never heard a feminist fret over "whether or not she could provide for her family."  Most men, many of which, did not have the luxury of present or real fathers are now starting to fully understand the damage a lack of a dad has on children and thus are recommitted to be good husbands and good fathers.  Their own suffering and experiences make them quite selfless as they thoroughly, seriously and completely think about their children and family, current or to be.Feminists?  Are you kidding me?  They're begging to get artificially inseminated and have the federal government supplant the husband and father role, with absolutely no regard to the children they intend to abuse and extract financial governmental resources and societal attention from cough...*raise*.  The fact so many feminists view fathers as unnecessary to the proper upbringing of a child shows they only view the child as an asset to own, a pet to have, ultimately proving it's all about them.BusinessesThe Manosphere has a significant percentage of its text dedicated towards setting up a business and doing something significant with your life.  Creating a company, employing people, making a better product, innovating a new creation to advance society.What is the feminist sphere's answer?Taxing said businesses to fund some non-profit charity that never solves the problem but manages to pay its "directors" a handsome sum?Some worthless NGO that only employs equally worthless liberal arts majors to protest for some productionless leftist cause or another?Even MORE bitching and whining about the performance gap between men and women?Again, The Manosphere is focusing on advancing society where the feminist sphere is primarily focused on parasiting off of it.RealityFinally, reality.Notice how the Manosphere takes a "what is reality" approach first, abides by that reality and then figures out how IT can change to abide and profit from that reality?  You know kind of a realistic, mature adult approach to life?Well the feminism sphere does the complete opposite.So lazy and ego-centric is the "feminism sphere," it not only ignores reality, but goes to desperate lengths to CRIMINALIZE and CHANGE reality.  AND change it to its own selfish and LAZY desires.  "Fat Acceptance" being the perfect example.So selfish and lazy (and veritably insane) is the feminist sphere they ACTUALLY THINK THEY CAN CHANGE MALE SEXUALITY TO THE POINT WE'D LIKE FAT CHICKS.  They actually think they can shame men into finding fat and ugly chicks attractive.  They think they can, via political arms and the government, get men to "accept fat" (not to mention slave away paying taxes for the government to surrogate their roles in society).But the key thing is LAZY.  Don't for a second think they don't full well know what the reality is.  They KNOW what men what.  It is the fact that to meet that goal would require such effort and challenge (working out, staying sexy, being GENUINELY educated and intelligent) they are dissuaded from such a life.  For such a life requires more effort and rigor than being a women's studies professor, a welfare recipient, a CSR/HR manager, AND requires you consider the desires of others.  In short it requires you to be self supporting, and above all else selfless.And that is a trait no feminist has.  
Fractional Reserve Speed Dating 
If you don't know what "fractional reserve banking" is, don't worry.It just means you're successful with the opposite sex.That being said (and not to ruin your chances with the opposite sex), "fractional reserve banking" is the idea that a bank will take a depositor's money, lend most of it out, while still allowing for the depositor to fully withdraw that money at any time.  Ergo the bank only holds a "fraction" in reserve of its depositors' monies.  The reason this works is because it is very unlikely EVERY depositor will come into the bank at one time and withdraw ALL of their money.  Therefore banks only need to hold a fraction of total deposits to allow for daily withdrawals here and there, while lending out the rest and making money on it.  There are many criticisms of a fractional reserve banking system.  Most notably that the banks are "creating money" by lending out money that already has a claim on it and technically isn't theirs to lend out in the first place.  But the larger point is that the true amount of money in the economy is only a fraction of what all the bank's electronic records say there is.Naturally, you would think money is the only commodity that can lend itself (pun FULLY intended) well to a fractional reserve system, but in my trials and tribulations in life as a SAEG (tm) I have come upon another commodity where fractional reserving is done, and it isn't in banking.It's in speed dating.Many years ago I gave speed dating one shot.  I walked into the joint, dropped my $35 down along with 7 other men and for that $35 we got to meet 8 other women for 5 minutes a piece.  The one date that I did manage to score out of this escapade brought her gay male friend to chaperone, which prompted me to dance with pretty much every other girl on the floor but her.  Gay-chaperoned dates aside, the point was there was an equal number of men to women.  8 to 8.  For if there was a shortage on either end you would have too many of one gender chasing too few of the other.But something interesting occurred after the speed dating event was over.  As some people headed to the bar, I decided to approach one of the girls I was interested in and chat her up a bit.  Using a simple approach I said,"You ever done this before?"She said,"Yes, but technically not tonight."Curious, I said,"Why technically not tonight?"And her response was one for the Economics of Dating history books."Well, the guy who runs this speed dating thing always has too many men and not enough women.  So he calls us when he has extra guys and we just fill in and act like we're interested.  If women don't show up, he can't sell as many tickets so he buys us drinks as compensation."Kind of curious about the math, not to mention I just wanted to see how screwed over me and the other 7 men were, I asked,"So how many women were plants?"She said,"4."I was more or less speechless, but the cynical side of me let out a cynical "Heh, what will they think of next?"  Seeing she herself was a plant, I just walked away, went to my car and left.Naturally I was somewhat upset at this little bit of trickery.  What was sold as a way for 8 men to meet 8 women was in reality 8 men to meet 4 women.  In short a fraction of the women that were truly available.  But by cheating the system of sorts, the host of the speed dating was able to "create" women just like banks "create" money and profit from this newly created asset.  He just had to pay them interest in the form of free cocktails (and no doubt the ego tinglies of leading poor saps on).Now, could it have been this ONE speed dating racket doing the fractional reserve dating?  Of course, but unlikely.  No doubt this is the case all over where there is higher demand on one side (the men) than there is supply on the other (the women) and it doesn't take a genius to faux-fill the market to equilibrium, profiting off of such said market manipulation.  The problem this presents men, however, is one of trust and reliability.  Given it is a fact women are less interested in dating than men there will always be that threat and likelihood a significant fraction of the women in speed dating are merely plants there to extract your money.  And given this risk it makes speed dating a losing proposition to the average guy whose $35 would be better spent on groceries, rent, gas, utilities or plastic pigeons.  So once again learn from the experiences and mistakes of the ole Captain.  Don't bother with speed dating.Besides, even if you're one of the lucky few to land a date, the best thing you'll manage is one of them highly-coveted and much-sought after "Gay-man-chaperoned dates." 
Why Every Young Man Needs to Hang Out With Older Women 
I once again decided to avail myself of the free gym and lounge offered to my girlfriend at her place of employment.  Normally my schedule consists of lifting weights, using the communal internet to do my daily work, running on the local trails and then grabbing a bite to eat.  However, the powers that be had a surprise in store for me, and that surprise took the form of 5 elderly ladies.At first it was just one.  I was sitting in a comfy chair in the lounge when this amazonian woman (6'1') walked in and sat beside me.  She inquired if I was with the "coffee club" and I said, "No, I'm just here because my girlfriend works for the company and this is considered my 'bachelor daycare' which prompted laughter and prompted conversation.She was a widow and a mother of children slightly older than myself, and she was waiting on her friends for their little coffee club.  She was promptly on time, suggesting to me she may have been ex-military, and started to ponder whether her friends were even going to show.  She called one of them and while on the phone started jesting to her friend that she was sitting with a "fine young handsome man."  I interrupted and suggested she tell her friend I would abscond with her to Bermuda, her friend on the other line laughed loud enough I could hear it.Sure enough within half an hour her friends all did show and as they trickled in I was introduced to them as her "new boyfriend," "boytoy," and "time share."  Every one of them laughing at each new title.  I had work to do, but set my laptop aside because it became quickly obvious and apparent these ladies were neither boring or uninteresting.  Yes I had work, but since I knew other humans are the most important thing in life, I set it down and participated with the ladies.I would say "normal jousting" occurred, but while the pattern of conversation was that of jousting you would have with other men, the fact these ladies were older made it superior conversation.  They were wise, they were experienced, they were witty.  In short they were the perfect people that you would want to engage in conversation.  They were not crass, but certainly weren't saints either.  They would tell stories about how they would peek through the blinds to see young men (back in the day) roof the house from across the street.  They would make high-brow remarks about me "coming over to do work for them," but at the same time inquiring what I did, telling me about their families, and other more innocent topics.  They were also cultured catching every Victor Borge reference I would lay on them and not having to require me to explain who Cary Grant was.  They, in short, were not just a pleasure to be around, but were the epitome of fun.  No person on the face of the planet would not have fun with these women.Because of this I decided that we should all meet at the lounge during the day time and I would grill them steaks and make them martini's.  Not one of them refused the offer.  We set a date, arranged for some minor logistics, and I have a afternoon date with 5 elderly ladies for steak and martinis in the near future.Now let me tell you the important lessons to take away from this experience.#1 Enjoy Them While They Are HereEvery young man, and I mean EVERY young man, needs to hang out, at least once, with elderly ladies.  Not for any ulterior motives such as MILF/GILF or gigilo/money, etc., but because this is the last generation of real women you will ever get to interact with.Understand once this generation dies off you get to deal with aging boomer hippies, middle aged Gen X'er feminists, and entitled Gen Y'ers and millineals, all of which have to one extent or another been influenced and impaired by feminism.  In other words the last true remaining, classy, Sophia Loren-esque women will die off and you will never get to enjoy hanging out with them, leaving you with "empowered women" and "masters in communications" types of females who are only female in gender.  There are non-physical reasons men like women and these women are the last ones on the planet that "got it."  Reasons that are soon going to go away and you won't ever get to enjoy.  So I suggest you enjoy their company and presence while you still can.#2  This is "How It's Supposed to Be"You ever feel like you're walking on eggshells with modern day women?  Always wonder where the next sucker punch is going to come from?  Asking yourself the question, "Will I go to jail if I ask a girl to dance?"Well that's because women have been co-opted under the socialist guise of "feminism" to be victims and any interaction between men and women is hyper-analyzed to see if those interactions in any way can be construed as "oppression," "victimization" or "crime."  In other words, a war has been declared between men and women, unbeknownst to most men.This is how women were before the "war."Men and women got along.  Men appreciated women and women appreciated men. They would wittingly spar, counter with charm and see who could crack the most smiles from the opposing team. They were not focused on themselves, but rather intrigued and interested in the other.  And if you ever wish to experience how that felt, not to mention have a standard or a "goal" as to how men and women should interact, again, hang out with older women.#3 True Judges and JudgementNearly every young man is judged every day.  And he is certainly judged when he approaches a woman of his age be it for a date, a social event, or what have you.  However, unfortunately, this young man has no context.  And when Sally McDitzysociologymajor shoots him down, perhaps even mocking him in the process, he actually thinks that this somehow reflects upon his:qualitymoral caliberpersonal caliberworth as a manMy question is simple - why do you let the most inexperienced, spoiled and childish people in the history of human kind (20 something western girls) judge you AND accept their judgement as a true measure of your worth?I do not say this out of desire or bias, but because it is true.  What experience, wisdom or hindsight does Tanya the Suburbanite Princess have to give her such authority?Older women are much better judges as to the quality and caliber of a person (be it a man or a woman) than their younger, spoiled-brat, entitled 20 something counterparts and if you really want to know if you are a good person, charming individual and all around good man, then it is older women you should hang out with.Can you get them to laugh?Can you get them to like you?Can you get them to smile?and the ultimate condoning of your quality as a manCan you get them to start inquiring about setting you up with their daughters or granddaughters?There is no larger or better endorsement to your caliber and quality as a man than a nice ole grandma lady asking if you have a girlfriend and saying she has a nice single grandaughter she'd like you to meet.I say all of the above not because I'm looking for anybody to validate myself or others.I say all of the above not to make you feel better about yourselves.I am saying all of the above because it is true.Our female elders, just like our male elders, have just as much wisdom and MORE when it comes to the opposite sex.  And if you want to enjoy the company of women, and appreciate the true intellect of females, and have some honest judges as to your worth in salt as a man, then I strongly suggest you hang out with our female elders.This post made in honor of my dance partner in Wyoming.  She said yes when all the 20 somethings said no.
 
From 0 to Assault Charges in 30 seconds 
In a previous post of mine I left out a lot of detail because the nature of the post required it. However, there was a sub-story of legitimate worth that would have detracted from the primary one and it is now that I wish to share this sub-story with you.Without going into detail, my friend and I were at a downtown party.  This is one of those deals where they close off the street and in a municipal politician's Keynesian wet-dream attract tourists and locals to support the local economy.  I got wind of a salsa club half a block from the "sectioned off block" and then set off to find some dance partners for me and my buddy.I approached I believe 5 different groups of girls/women with the honest and polite intention of merely scoring some dance partners.  However, one stood out because of the lightning speed at which the situation deteriorated to the point I knew to step back otherwise the law would get involved.  At a distance they looked to be upper 20's maybe even early 30's.  But as I approached improved vision showed me they were younger 20's.  Already committed to the flight path I followed through and made my approach."Howdy!" I said, only to receive blank stares from the three girls that populated this group."Me and my buddy are looking for some dance partners.  Found a salsa joint just a block south of here and wondering if you girls would be interested."Two of the three girls were silent, but the third (and prettiest) one spoke up with such an arrogant tone that it stirred an agitated darwinian response in my psyche."Ummm...no.  I'm not interested in dancing with you."I paused for what seemed to be an eternity, but (in hindsight) recouped probably lightning fast to this condescending response."Who says I'm asking you?" as I put my arm around her slightly overweight, but shy redhead friend.  "I'm asking the redhead."The two silent girls were...well...silent.  But the blond, obviously insulted by my "game on" response, got angry."Nice try.  It's time for you to leave."Somewhat angered myself I said, "What if they (referring to her two shy friends) want to dance?  We only need two, not you."And that's when the situation really started to deteriorate."You better get out of here or I'll kick your ass."And her face was serious.It wasn't that I was intimidated by a dime-a-dozen cutesy 20 something girl, it was the audacity any woman (girl really) would threaten to kick my ass for what was a request to take her and her friends salsa dancing.Again, it seemed like an eternity.To recoup from the outlandishness I just got threatened by a 20 something child, and to assess the now rapidly escalating volatile situation, and to predict where the current path was taking us (me to jail, her to the plaintiff's desk)  and to concoct the precise words that needed saying, seemed to take forever.  But again in hindsight, it was lightning fast."Yeah, you and your 90 pound ass." as I then proceeded to look away and disengage.This exchange transpired in what was no more than 30 seconds, but it was a very valuable 30 seconds that not only I learned from, but every young man should learn from as well.  A fair amount of American women have been brought up so spoiled, entitled, impolite and easily-offended, there is now a HUGE risk is merely approaching women.I'm not saying not to approach.I'm not saying not to make your play.I am saying that girls today, with society spoiling them for every one of their 20 youthful years, can go from 0 to "Assault Charges" in literally under 30 seconds.  And you NEED TO CONSTANTLY ASSESS THE SITUATION and know when your innocent attempt to score a dance partner is RAPIDLY turning into an unwanted advance from a guy and thus an excuse to feed the "drama-queen monster" a reason to file a faux complaint of harassment to the local constable. I hate to sound old, but this REALLY DIDN'T HAPPEN IN MY DAY.  At least the Gen X'er women would politely turn you down or just say no.  It never, once in my (probably) thousands of approaches deteriorated to the point so quickly that a violent event would have consequented in under 30 seconds.But there is another lesson I want all of you to pull from this. And it is not to brag, but to clearly paint the picture of what was really going on.Me - salsa dancing, ballroom dancing, fossil hunting, economist who writes books, goes on great motorcycling escapades blah blah blah.My buddy - millionaire pilot who lives DT St. Petersburg, can fly wherever he wants, whenever he wants, drives a luxury car, etc. etc.Both - in great shape, financially better off than most, etc. etc.  How much do you want to bet these girls in 15 years from now in their late 30's, early 40's are bitching and whining "where are all the good men" when there were two accomplished (by the veritable definition) menOFFERING TO FREAKING TEACH AND TAKE THEM SALSA DANCING!!!!???Again, there are times where I wonder if maybe if we men are in the wrong, and our advice no longer applies, but it is instances like these that only reforge and reinforce there is a war on, and we didn't start it.But by god and by damn we will finish it.  
The Importance of Revisiting the Meat Market 
As most of you know I am spoken for.  Took a while, but the benefits of it taking a while and dating 300+ of America's...COUGH COUGH...WHEEZE WHEEZE...PHLEGM PHLEGM..."finest"kind of puts things into perspective so that when a quality candidate comes along (one every eight years) you know to capitalize on it. However, that being said, there is a thing called "euphoric recall,"  a term an alcoholic friend of mine taught me about.  It means that your brain tends to remember only the good things or good times and forgets the bad ones.  I believe it is a survival mechanism in that if your brain remembered all the bad stuff in your life, you'd become depressed and suicidal.  But that aside, the principle applies in the same regard when it comes to courting and playing the field - your brain will remember only the good times of your single swingin' bachelor/ette days.Because of this, after some time men (and women) will tend to only fondly remember the good aspects of dating and playing the field.  They will then start to wonder about their current spouse/boy/girlfriend/lover, or just the concept of settling down in the first place.  But what they forget is the sheer hell and pain-in-the-assery those "good ole times" were.Thus, why I recommend "revisiting the meat market."As I sit here now typing, my pilot-bachelor-millionaire friend and I just returned from "Friday Night" in St. Petersburg, Florida.  Every Friday night they section off the bar area of downtown and the night clubs, cigar lounges, and bars open up.  We headed out to the cigar lounge to smoke, but as luck would have it, I also found a salsa club just a block south of the "Friday Night" festivities.However, when we reconnoitered the salsa club there were practically no women to dance with, prompting us to think we'd surely be able to convince some women to come dance with us back at the "Friday Night" festival.  I thought this would be a breeze given the levity of the festival and figured it would only be a matter of approaches to convince a couple girls to join us, but, ahhhhh yes.... euphoric recall.The first group of girls "didn't know how to dance."The second group, "no thank you, nice try."And the third group!  Mercy, a veritable 23 year old bitch told me "nice try, it's time for you to leave." (And to dissuade any arguments that I was dejected or butt hurt, no, in all honesty I was merely, literally, and honestly asking girls if they wanted to join me and my buddy at a salsa club.  And to further address any additional arguments, yes, I was on my game, was charming, wasn't creepy, etc, etc, etc.and my approach was one of NOT hitting on, but a genuine and friendly request that some girls come dancing with us (for example, I asked no one particular girl, but GROUPS to join us)  Also the approaches were aloof, indifference and nonchalant.)Regardless, my point is the responses were just so hostile and arrogant that it reminded me of just what a pain in the ass it was trying to play the field, when in fact we WEREN'T EVEN TRYING TO PLAY THE FIELD!  We were just trying to get dance partners.  And thus, there is a lesson for both those of you who are spoken for and those of you who are single.For those of you (men) who are single, my god.  I don't envy you.  I've been off the market for a while, but not that long.  And even in that short time the arrogance and hubris of women has increased 2-3 fold.  To see someone as young as 23 dare to have the rudeness to dismiss a request to dance with "time for you to go" only tells me they have been approached so many times their courtesy and etiquette has been obliterated by their egos.  And while admittedly this is a sample pulled from St. Petersburg and is not representative of all girls in America, it is once again further proof the wisdom us old fogies have is needed more than ever.For those of you men who are spoken for, I HIGHLY recommend revisiting the meat market.  Not so much to hit on girls, but to be reminded as to just what a pain in the ass it was suffering such brats in your youth, and what a catch you have back at home.  I have the benefit of being able to use a platonic vehicle in the form of dancing to test the attitudes of women today, but simply revisiting a meat market or a bar and faux talking to a girl will more than make you appreciate the attitudeless woman who entertained your offer to take her to a movie 10 years ago.I'll say it again for the cheap seats.  I ALWAYS and CONSTANTLY worry that the wisdom we gained from our experiences 10-20 years ago will not apply to the current generation, and in no longer being applicable, turn out to be erroneous, misleading, and thus, detrimental.  But the situation has WORSENED, NOT IMPROVED making our advice and experiences all that much more important for the young boys of today.Stay frosty, boys.  Stay the freak frosty. 
The Captain Meets Two Girls From Russia 
There's a bar called "The Vault" in Hot Springs, SD.  It's about the only place that fits my age, has decent food and internet access.I was working my mother's-basement-based internet media empire when two very attractive young women walked in.  They were decked out, in heels and groomed perfectly.I naturally assumed they were with the "Ms. South Dakota" pageant which is hosted in Hot Springs and thus ignored them.  I continued with my work, finished my burger and went up to the bar to pay my tab.However, my path had me go right past the two entrants and so enroute to the cashier I stopped and asked,"Are you girls entrants in the beauty pageant?"They, surprisingly said, "no."  I continued on to the bar to pay my tab, but in that short 3 minutes I was confused.  They were WAY too good looking to be locals.  Too young to be natives.  And too dressed up to be from the area.  I caught a hint of an accent and so on the return trip to my table I stopped by again and asked,"Excuse me, but do you mind if I ask you a question."They said, "sure.""If you're not with the beauty pageant, then why are you here?"They giggled a little bit and said, "What beauty pageant?"I said, "The Ms. South Dakota beauty pageant.  It's hosted here every summer."The one on the right said, "No, we're not with the beauty pageant.  We're workers at the Vista Hotel.  We're from Russia."And then the light went on.To handle tourist season a lot of the local hotels, gift shops, and so forth, hire eastern European kids to handle the excess traffic.  They get to see some of the most beautiful parts of the US and the employers get cheap labor.  And when they said they were from Russia and working at the hotel, it all made sense.But here is where it gets interesting.Had they been American women, my inquiry as to whether they were part of the beauty pageant would have been a complete failure.  It would have been viewed as sucking up, dismissed, poo pooed, "yeah we know we're hot," and I would have been guaranteed a 100% failure.  But since these were girls from Russia, it was the complete opposite.They were completely flattered."Did you really think we were in the beauty pageant?" one said with a smile on her face.I said, "Yes, but you have to understand.  NOBODY dresses up like you girls do in this town and most of the women are old or ugly.  You stand out and since the pageant was in town I figured you were part of it."This innocent and sincere statement only endeared me to them further.  They genuinely appreciated the fact I mistook them for beauty pageant contestants.  They started asking what I did, why I was there, as I also inquired about them and what they were doing.However, it was sad because I only had one more day in town and wanted to make sure these young ladies got the most out of their trip.  Since I couldn't play the role of tour guide, I wrote everything I loved about the Black Hills and the Badlands down on a napkin making them promise me they would visit these sites even if it took a little money.  They thanked me and then something very rare happened.One of them asked me to pull up a chair and join them.I don't mean this to sound like "Gee shucks whillikers howdy" moment as if a girl never asked me to join them.  I mean this as a "holy cow, a courteous gesture on the part of a young woman to be considerate enough to OBSERVE the situation and make a stranger feel welcome."  Though I would have liked to talk to them more, I was deadly tired from 300 miles of riding and climbing Bear Butte, and very politely declined the offer, said I had to get some sleep and reiterated the importance they explore and enjoy the Black Hills.The moral of this story is a simple one.This is HOW IT SHOULD BE.Notice there were no sexual overtones or romantic interests.  There was no presumptions on the part of the girls. It was just a simple and honest interaction between a guy and two gals.  And the women were cordial, kind, sweet, and (dare I point out) physically presentable to the public.  When I made my approach they were not rude, dismissive or condescending.  Instead they listened, were polite and took me for my word, never once considering engaging in mind games.  It resulted in a very enjoyable experience where instead of pulling teeth to merely engage a member of the opposite sex in a non-sexual, genuinely interested, curiosity-based, grounds, I got to enjoy a good conversation with two nice girls that will make two lucky men very happy in the future.  They were ladies.  And I suggest American and western women start paying attention if they wish to achieve the same status and respect. 
Why You Can't Find a Man 
I am working on a whole new economic theory.  In my humble opinion it will revolutionize economics.  I tire as different economists and philosophers argue the differences between "Keynesian" and "Austrian" and "neoclassical" and "classical" economics, because they're1.  talking way over normal everyday people's heads2.  usually are quite often wrong because they are more concerned about supporting one particular line of economic thought instead of ackowledging the empirical real world.It's just a general theory now with the details and tenets being worked out in my head as I hike and ride, but some day it will be my "General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money" but it won't suck and will be understandable by the masses.  And no, I'm not even going to tell what it is because I do not want other economists taking the idea and running with it.Anyhoo, with this new theory prompted me to conduct an informal and unscientific study.  It won't seem any different than any previous sociological study I've done, but it does have its origins in my new theory - specifically why can't those girls find a man.In a post I requested men estimate the percent of their free time they spent pursuing the fairer sex at the following ages:15, 25, 35, 45, 55, and 65Out of the 27 data points only one was 65 years of age and it was zero, so I only have data for ages 15-55.I then averaged them out to estimate a "demand curve" of ladies for men at varying ages.  And it looks like this.










In short men (while still boys) spend 15% of their free time chasing girls, peaking at around 24% when 25 and then consistently declining to only 2% in the three decades thereafter.What this confirms is something we've already known - that as men age they leave the market.  But that's precisely the point.  It CONFIRMS.  I don't like going into debates with theories, I like going into debates with facts and knowledge because I don't care to debate.  I care to be informed.Regardless, though just a single and simple chart, it has ramifications.First, it validates work done by The Rational Male, namely his attempts to chart "Sexual Market Value."  No doubt he has gotten guff and accusations of misogyny for daring to chart such a thing, but it is reality and reality cannot be bigoted or sexist.  The above chart just provides more empirical data to prove it.Second, it explains why as women age "they can't find a good man" or "where have all the good men gone."  As I've explained before, they went home.  This is a very important point to make because it shows the classical signs of an economic bubble.  There was HUGE demand earlier for women.  Men would flood the market with attention, effort, time and energy trying to find girls. Just think of all the time you would go to parties, clubs, online dating profiles, etc. etc, just to get a number back when you were 23.  Men would make themselves available as much as they possibly could.But then the bubble bursts.Men no longer go out "clubbing."  They don't log into their Match.com account as much.  And they could go to that desperate singles event, but the game is on.  And soon the supply of attention that was previously flooding the market and driving the SMV of women up, plummets, driving down the "units of attention" per woman.However, I fear there is a "Wile E. Coyote" experience these ladies have.  They have been so accustomed to being flooded with attention, they don't realize the ground has been taken out from beneath them.  They are like the McMansion buyer in 2005 who lost his job in 2006, has to sell the house and "can't believe," nay, REFUSES to believe his house had gone down in value.  Ironically, he only worsens his situation in delaying the sale based on pride as the market tanks further.Third, also notice age has an effect.  A 25 year old man is looking for a 25 year old woman.  But at the age of 55, they 55 year old man is probably not looking for a 55 year old woman.  Matter of fact, most of his attention and efforts are going to be expended on a (roughly estimated) 45 year old woman.  This means the chart is even worse for aging women.In short, however, the chart does answer where all the "good men" have gone.  They're still alive.  There wasn't a disease that wiped them out.  They merely aren't in the market anymore and are expending their free time on other things.  
The Role Women Should Play in Society 
I received a question from a reader about what I thought women's role in society should be.At first thought I imagined the response would be a lengthy one, but the more I thought about it, the more I realized it was very simple.Women's role in society should be whatever role women wish to play.That's it.Period. Women, like men, are human and have every right to freedom and should not be pigeon-holed into one role or another.  They are sentient, they are human, they are individuals, there should be no specific "role" they play in society as pre-ordaining them to play ANY role would be be tyranny over the individual.Where the hubbub or contention occurs is where women do precisely that, but then whine and complain about the consequences.For example, if a woman wants to get impregnated at the age of 16...and then 18...and then 21 by three different men, I personally do not care.  But when you start telling me I have to pay higher taxes to bail this parasite out of her own idiotic mistakes, then I morally and logically should have a say in how she should lead her life because the veritable parasite is now consuming part of mine.  I would go so far as to even say I have the right to force birth control on her.  And the reason why is that when somebody starts requiring others pay for their way, then they cease to be an individual and forfeit all rights.Or another example. Say a woman majors in a worthless subject.  I don't care.  I don't really care.  You go major in Lesbian, Transgender, Chicano-White-Privilege, French, 18th Century Poetry for all I care and make sure to go $150,000 in debt at some prissy little liberal arts college tucked away in the non-urban East coast. As long as she lives up to the fact she will be unemployable, in debt, and just plain out of luck.But once I'm requested to bail her out (either though loan forgiveness via the taxpayer or lobbying to increase my taxes to make a pointless, make-work government job for her), then once again she has forfeited being an individual and I have every right to dictate to her what she should and should not do.In other words, the issue of "women's place in society" is not one of liberty or individualistic choice or idealism.  That is a simple matter - they should be allowed to do whatever they want.  It's a matter of whether society is man enough to let them suffer the consequences of their decisions and TRULY TREAT THEM AS EQUALS or is hoodwinked into being asked to bail out women for stupid choices, stupid mistakes, and just plain stupidity.But don't think this just applies to women.  It is only women we are talking about because of the question posed to me.  This lesson applies to both sexes.To what extent do we grant freedom to an individual to fuck up his or her own life?Philosophically and morally I say "the fullest extent."But it is on the grounds and understanding that they get to suffer the full and complete consequences of their mistakes, their stupidity, and their inferiority with no cost to the taxpayer.  Of course, we do not have this today.  Everybody gets bailed out.The loser who borrowed more than they could afford to buy a house.The loser who had more children than he/she could afford.The loser that majors in English in an English speaking country where English is a skill akin to breathing.The loser that started a sports bar or a trinket shop because they had a dream but no business acumen.  I could go on, but you get the point.  Mature, freedom-loving adults, allow people to do whatever they want because that is freedom and that is liberty.  It is the consequences of stupid decisions that causes the controversy about women's role in society today because women (disproportionately to men - and yes, I will defend that with empirical data) then go begging, nay, DEMANDING the rest of RESPONSIBLE society lessen their standards of living to bail them out of their stupidity.So what role should women play in society?Simple, whatever they want, long as they're adult about it.  
Don't Let Women Land You In Jail 
She was screaming at the top of her lungs on I-35W southbound right at the intersection where I-94 intersected.It was rush hour.I had to make a move to make my exit to westbound 94.  I needed the entirety of my mental capacity and senses.But she was so fanatical it impaired my ability to drive to the point it now was a serious threat to my safety which resulted in the only time in my life I made a physical threat to a woman."I will fucking beat the fucking shit out if you don't shut the fuck up right fucking now!"I said it with more emphasis, sincerity and anger than what Blogger text formatting will allow, so please do believe me that I was a micrometer from punching this veritable child into a bloody pulp.  It was that bad, it was that serious, and I was that close from pulling over and just beating the ever living hell out of a Californian suburbanite princess.But appreciate that statement.I REALLY WAS a micrometer from beating the hell out of her.I REALLY WAS so angry I would have not relented.And had I just a mere brain cell or life-experience less or two, I would have followed through with that threat.  She'd be on the side of 35W, a twitching soon-to-be-quadriplegic corpse as I drove off happy to be rid of her.Now ask yourself the question - what would the consequences have been?Well, the consequences are quite obvious.I would have been in jail and this vile woman would have been scot-free (albeit "twitchy"). Another interesting anecdote, and not unrelated either, she married a guy I knew and liked.  And while I feel sorry for him, he is the first guy to ever invite me to a party where I saw lines of cocaine lined up.  And while I had quite an amiable relationship with his young fellow, I can only imagine what would have happened had the cops busted down the door when everybody was snorting coke.Now I could go on.The time I sucker punched (unjustifiably so) a guy who took my gas station spot.The time I taunted a guy at a bar for collecting welfare and living off of his dad for tuition.The time I told a rowdy and drunk cowboy that the girl who was hitting on me wasn't his woman and I'd take her home if I damn well pleased.There are many instances.But every instance was a RAZOR SHARP instance and pure dumb luck that the dice didn't roll the other way, with me landing in jail with a criminal record, vs. the other way where I luckily find myself now.  And I say that with the most sincerity.  I should have a criminal record, but it was only by pure dumb luck I don't.So you young men listen to my following wisdom.1.  No girl is worth getting into legal trouble for.  I don't care what it takes to override your biological, Darwinistic predisposition, you NEED to learn to control your emotions when it comes to women.  This is the NUMBER ONE thing your brain is wired to vehemently react to.  You must learn to IDENTIFY IT  and CONTROL it. You find your girl sleeping with another man in your own bed.  You have a pistol on your person.  You MUST learn not to shoot the man in bed with your girl.  Because NOTHING good will come of you killing that man. The (again, I use it rarely, but accurately) cunt is SCREAMING at the top of her lungs for some unjustifiable reason or another while you're driving on the interstate.  Do you pull over and beat the hell out of her, or do you take a deep breath, think things through, and in a very zen like fashion ignore her decibels, drive her home, drop her off, and never see her again as you pursue your own life?  Again, what are the consequences to succumbing to your darwinistic desires to pull over and beat her?Jail.Whatever the instance, you must have the adult, TRUE MAN, maturity to dismiss and ignore such drama and antics, side step such traps, and ensure you remain a free man, outside of the prison system so you can enjoy the finite life you've been graced with.2.  Simply do not associate with even QUESTIONABLE people. I really don't believe that most people in jail are there because they were hardened criminals.  I believe many of them are there because they were innocent bystanders.  They had a tacit interest, their friend was being assaulted, their girlfriend needed her "honor" defended, whatever, they were the wrong man at the wrong place at the wrong time.The key is to avoid such "wrong people" and such "wrong situations" from the get go. When it comes to the point cocaine lines are starting to show, you go.When the jealous lawyer who is married (true story) starts to wine and dine your girl, you go.When your friend needs you to lie for him to provide an alibi you go.Your life is not meant to be wasted away in a 6 x 7 cell because you were hanging out with the wrong people, so just make sure you don't even associate with such people. The larger point is that if you look at most people with criminal records or who end up in jail unjustifiably so, they all have one thing in common - they didn't have the good sense or self-respect to say, "You know what, these people I'm hanging out with are bad news.  And even though I'm a good guy/gal, their activities could get me in trouble.  Be it by association, drama, jealousy, rage, or foolish antics, it isn't worth it."You need to learn to walk away and never associate yourself with such people in that it only will increase your chance of having a criminal record.  
When Boys Took Girls to Jazz Clubs 
I was driving back from a buddy's of mine tonight when the DJ on the jazz station said,"The song you were just listening to was from Captain Jack McDuff."I remember Jack McDuff.  Saw him multiple times in person at the Artist's Quarter and "The Dakota," jazz clubs in the Twin Cities. He died of old age about a decade ago.  Only reason I knew of him and the only real reason I ever ended up becoming a ballroom dancer was because a more-cultured friend of mind FORCED me to go see him, and thus my love for jazz was born.But something else became of that fateful night. My desire to take a girl to a jazz club for a date.Simple enough.Innocent enough.Hell, down right classy enough.But oh so complicated.For while in the past I've harped upon the irony that I could not find a date when I was 19 to attend a Victor Borge concert with me, hearing Jack McDuff this evening reminded me of a problem or phenomenon that was more prevalent back in my collegiate youth.You just couldn't get a girl to attend classy events with you in college.Let me state this and let me state this clearly, so that it goes down in the history books and is recorded for posterity.There were MANY young men in the age ranges of 18-22 that were more than willing to be gentlemen.  And not only gentlemen, but classy men as well.  We had ideas about taking young women out on dates that were not just "drinks at the bar" or "going to a house party," but genuine venues and events like jazz clubs, salsa clubs, Victor Borge, and opera.  A significant step up from what went for common dates.But there were no takers.Understand we were not nerds or ugly men.  We were not morons or socially awkward.  We were thoughtful young, (albeit) naive men that frankly wanted to do something classy, something different, something better than the run of the mill date.  But despite that, there were no takers.  And the reason was sociological.You ever try to get a girl to attend a jazz club with you at 20 years of age?Damn well near impossible.First there's the pearls before swine aspect of it.  Back in the 90's you had to duke it out with tickets to the "Back Street Boys" or some local, crappy, hippie, grunge band sure to spread tetanus to all of its audience.  When you dared to suggest the girl dress up in a nice "dress" and you in a suit and you'd pick her up and take her to dinner before, you were laughed at and dismissed.  Perhaps even ridiculed as being sexist for daring to suggest she wear a dress and not a nose piercing. Second, you're over shooting.  What 20 year old girl has ever heard of Jack McDuff?  You'd be lucky to get a 35 year old to even know who he was, let alone even know of the venues you were talking about.And finally, face it, you were a square from day one even thinking along those lines.  Forget how great the jazz club was.  Forget how great the jazz music was.  In you thinking about attending a jazz club immediately took you out of your environment/class/caste and put you at such a great disadvantage you literally might as well have been trying to sell ice to Eskimos. The average 20 year old girl had no interest, inkling, desire or want to have anything to do with a culture approaching something like jazz.And so there you were.  You had worked up the extra $40 over the course of a month to pay for dinner and a cover.  You had maybe eyed a handful of girls to ask out.  You had strategically chatted up and charmed them to the point you'd be able to ask them out.But when you finally popped the question:"Oh, I'd like to see Jack McDuff, but I'm going with my girlfriends to see Lilly Lipstick and the Licking Lizards.  They're like the new Kirk Cobain!"Fast forward 20 years.I don't think I've asked a girl to a jazz club, salsa dancing, a high end concert, or any other event that would call for formal attire in at least a decade.  And this isn't because of me courting a lady.  Even when I was single I gave it up.  Matter of fact I don't know any guy in my peer group that even bothers with setting up "special dates" where they get reservations, find unique locales of lounges to go to, etc.  No, all of them, not the majority, ALL OF THEM, now only offer "drinks at the local bar," "wings at Applebee's," or a "movie."The special dates, be it Victor Borge, salsa dancing, Cpt. Jack McDuff, or any date that required pre-planning on their part has now been relegated to "special nights" with their theoretical wife in the future that they may or may not ever marry.  Those thoughtful, considerate, impressive dates are now taken off of the table as they were seen to be too bold, too "needy," too "nerdy," and frankly were never availed of when offered.But in those 20 years, it's interesting how times have changed.Now, pretty much every girl I know wants to go salsa dancing.  Nearly every girl I know would kill to have a guy dress up in a suit and pick her up.  Nearly every girl I know would die to go to a high end jazz club.  And nearly every girl I know would love to have a gentleman take her to a nice dinner.The irony of course is thatJack McDuff is deadVictor Borge is deadAnd that young man is dead. Though there is still open night jazz at the Artist's Quarter in St. Paul that would require modern day men to drive 40 miles round trip and pull suits out of storage which they haven't worn in years.  That would take time and effort they just not longer care to spend.In other words that nice, innocent, well-intentioned boy with a little more class than the average guy and his offer to take you out to a dinner, a night of jazz and (here is something so stupid in hindsight, but what I'd actually do out of naivete) who would buy you a flower to pin on the lapel of your dress, got his fill of martini's and jazz on his own.  He no longer exists.  The offer is off the table and now you can enjoy the bar scene, just at the age of 40-60.  You can enjoy the aging, balding, recently divorced (or still married) investment banker or failing businessman.  You can enjoy the man who leases his Mercedes, but you don't know the difference between "lease" and "own."  You can enjoy the guy who has a lot of money, but can't run a mile without suffering a cardiac arrest.Because it would have been nice.  A young, nervous, but determined 21 year old man, intent to impress you with a dinner he could barely afford.  And hoping his selection in jazz or symphony would buy him enough time to accidentally show you his quality and caliber.  And though not a BMW he'd pick you up just the same in his Ford Escort.  And there you'd sit at a high end restaurant, all dressed up, being treated to a fine dinner and some great music, as people walked downtown and observed from the outside saying,"how darling""how cute"Yes, that would have been nice.But alas, it was "girls night" as "Farting Pete's" where you could drink for free and have a score of men lavish you with attention and free drinks.  And we all know that is more important than having that young kid pin a flower on your lapel as you listened to Jack McDuff. 
"My Child Comes First" 
Whilst peering over the shoulder of my male friend, perusing the Match or the POF, he'll occasionally point out how common it is for women to list in their description,"My child comes first"and then laugh as he moves onto the next, hopefully, childless profile.  But this brings up an important issue about hierarchy and the importance of different people in people's lives.First, gentlemen, before you wed, you will (not "need" or "should") you WILL make it very clear you will be the number one thing in her life and she will be the number one thing in yours.  The kids will come second because without two parents, they will suffer.  This doesn't mean you put your kids beneath you, as it is akin to having a pilot and a co-pilot on the plane.  Those are the two most important people.  The fliers, very important, but they would all die if in an emergency the emphasis was put on them.  If you fail to convey this concept then you WILL be relegated below the children and relegated further to the position of ATM.  You are not an ATM, you are the father of the household.  Don't just act like it, insist on it.Second, if you fail to do that, you will perpetually be knocked down the hierarchy as various "important" things enter your wife's life.  This will result in the following hierarchy and placement as time goes on.2nd place behind the wife3rd place behind the wife and any kids4th place behind the wife, any kids, and if she's religious, Jesus (or God or Allah, etc.)5th place behind the wife, any kids, any god, and her career6th place behind the wife, any kids, any god, her career, her affair7th place behind the wife, any kids, any god, her career, her affair, her familyI could go on, but if there are enough "false gods" you could in theory be bumped down to 117th place. Regardless, it is important to assess these things about a woman before considering marriage.  Say, for example, she's already divorced with kids, has a career and is a really religious girl.Well lil' buckaroo, you're default placed at 5th.She's got no kids, but constantly listens to her mother's advice over yours, and is insistent on getting her "Masters in Feelings," you're default ranked 4th.Again, at any time you men can put your foot down and say, "No, I am the head of the house hold, and I will be in first place."  It really is that simple.  
Why You Should Sleep With Your Students 
Permit me to be blunt...not that I wasn't previously.You should totally sleep with your students.Of course I am not speaking to K-12 employees or anybody who takes their teaching job seriously, but if you are like me and ended up teaching on a part time basis to adults, you should totally take advantage of your situation and sleep with your students.The reasons are numerous and the drawbacks are nearly non-existent.As a (male) instructor you are already put in a position of power and authority, granting you at least two more points on the scale of 1-10.  I cannot count the number of women I seduced because I was a:dance instructoreconomics professorfinancial advisorIt was almost effortless.So why should you refuse the advantage if you are in an equal position of educational power?Aren't you men working primarily to work up the money to hopefully convince a young lady to copulate with you?  Why work so hard when your profession will do that job for you?Also, unless you are really attached to your job or you are teaching minors, does it really pay enough for you to start having morals?Sure, there were rules against professors dating their students.Sure, there were rules against me fornicating with my apprentices. But there weren't any rules after class ended.  And there certainly weren't any rules after they graduated.  Besides, no girl is going to rat you out and if she does you at most lost a job that paid a lousy $18/hour and had no job stability.  The larger point is simply this:Out of every bit of game and strategy I've ever ran, it was "Teacher Game" that got me the most play.  Being an economist scored me nothing.  But being an "economics professor" scored me at least three nubile girls.  Being a salsa dancer was fine.  I think I got a couple dates.  But being a salsa dance instructor score me much more.  It is the position of power a teacher/professor/instructor has that grants him a HUGE advantage when it comes to seducing women.  So instead of going down to the night club and perfecting your "negging" skills, may I perhaps suggest an alternative?Go to your local community college or community education department and "selflessly" become a teacher of one sort or another.Women under your tutelage are much easier than women at the bar.The Extinction of Real Grandmothers 
I love my grandmother.  She is the epitome of everything a grandmother should be.  She is kind, she is nice, she is sweet, she (for some ungodly reason) loves her grandkids.  She is also incredibly classy.  She worked in investment banking, had martinis, flew to Florida with her friends, and even today schnookers all the old guys at the rummy competitions they have at the senior center.  I am very fortunate to have a real grandmother in the Aunt Bea sense and feel guilty for not visiting her as much as I should.However, I am even more fortunate in another sense.  I believe my grandmother is one of the last of her kind.Understand that feminism has been going strong since the 1960s.  And whereas my grandparents hailed from the Greatest Generation, modern day kids' grandparents hail from the hippie generation.  And sadly these women have not grown up.I first noticed this when I visited a cadre of Cappy Cappites down in Raleigh, NC.  We went to a jazz club to smoke cigars.  Everything was great, very classy club with a good selection of cigars.Then the music started.And in came in a cackle of 40-50 something women wearing clothes from their halcyon days during Reagan's first administration that were no longer fashionable and no longer fitting.I saw these aged women dancing on the floor, getting drunk, dancing with each other, grinding as if they were 21, none of which had rings.  And then it dawned on me - these women were my grandmother's age when I was a kid.  These women had grandkids.And in a very Joe Hollenbeck way I said to myself "WHAT THE FUCK!?"But this was to be expected.  After a 40 year regimen of you-go-girlism, feminism, careerism, divorce, and you-can-have-it-all, there was no way these women would turn out to be the refined, elegant and graceful Sophia Loren like grandmothers my generation was blessed with.  No, sadly, not only do the kids today get to suffer single mothers, drama, divorce, ritalin, drama, and an otherwise unstable family, even their GRANDPARENTS aren't around to provide that modicum of stability, let alone role modeling.  Regardless, I'm going to go and buy my grandma some chocolates and flowers.  I suggest if you have a good one like I got, you do the same. 
A Short Man is Like a Fat Woman 
The LADIES (Bill Burr emphasis) over at Return of Queens came up with an explanation of their scale of attraction for men on a scale of 1-10...well...OK,they ATTEMPTED to come up with a scale of 1-10, but being the lovely females they are, nothing is ever so simple.  Their attraction to males is a bit more multi-faceted for a simple linear scale, so it became a list of "do's and don't's" instead.  Perhaps not as simple as us men were looking for, but helpful nonetheless.However, one of the best bits of advice was about short men, specifically, how women are just not attracted to them, and this needs to be expanded a little more for the benefit of our shorter brothers.If you were like me and every other boy/man in America, you were brought up believing what your parents and teachers told you - that women would like you for you and just be yourself blabbity blah blah blah.  You were also maybe told women preferred dark, TALL, men, but that was the extent to which height was addressed.  And thus you were sent out into the world, thinking your height was no serious disadvantage.  That like you, women weren't bigoted against people shorter than them and just as you were comfortable dating a girl taller than you, women would be comfortable dating men shorter than them.Oh, how wrong you were.  For while not addressed or talked about much, height is arguably the number one thing women look at.  And I would go so far to say they are repulsed by shortness on a level almost as much as men are repulsed by fat.While I have seen no studies, anecdotally there is enough data a study doesn't have to be commissioned.  It is usually the case women are shorter than their partner.  Only during my "ballroom dancing prime" was I able to score taller girls (and they would usually not stick around).  And we can of course take what the ladies at ROQ are saying at face value.  But if there is a case study that proves the "shortness handicap" it is my much more ripped IT counterpart.  This "friend" is basically me on steroids and improved in every other category.He makes six figuresHe is an infinitely better mechanic than I amHe is a computer genius He races cars and rides motorcycles He's way more ripped than I amHas a nicer houseHas a nicer carHas a higher networthoh, andhe is an accomplished dancer AND musician.You could not really improve a human more.But, alas, he is 5'9", and that's where he "fails."  Matter of fact it was a conversation we had about a month ago that prompted me to look at shortness as such a handicap, and the ROQ piece confirms it.  You can be the most accomplished man in every aspect of your life, superior to most of your competitors, but if you're short, you might as well be that "fat girl with a *great* personality."So what is a short guy to do?Well the primary purpose of this post is to at least MAKE YOU AWARE of your handicap.  I do this NOT to berate you or make you feel bad, but to improve your chances with women.  A soldier that goes into battle unaware of his greatest weakness or operating on false information is going to fail compared to a soldier that DOES know his greatest weakness and makes decisions accounting for it.  So if you are short (I would say 5'10" or shorter) REALIZE and ACCEPT women are just not going to be as attracted to you.Don't listen to what your parents sayDon't listen to what your friends who are girls sayDon't listen to what society saysIf you are working out, interesting, good looking, and doing everything "right," if you're short THAT is the reason you are failing with women, just like FAT is the reason woman will fail with men.Second, well while a fat girl can always lose weight (well, according to science and biology anyway, HAR HAR HAR!), a short man simply cannot increase his height.  There is no "solution" to height.Correct, so, like the ladies at ROQ point out, you are merely going to be relegated to shorter girls.This is alright because, again, men really don't care that much about height.  And there's plenty of short girls around. The problem is (as many online dating profiles will show you) short girls are just as picky as their taller female counterparts when it comes to the height of men.  Profiles are abound of 5'1" girls DEMANDING a man 6'0" or taller.  This "height spread" combined with the fact taller men aren't going to turn down a girl based on height, pushes short men out of the "height market." Regardless, you're just going to have to "aim low" and not bother approaching taller girls.Third, lie.Do women put on makeup?Do women wear clothes that adjust their shape?Do women wear heels?Women lie all the time about their appearance, so the least you can do is lie about your height.Of course, this isn't Gattica, so how do you lie?Pull a Prince and get some platform shoes.  Nothing 4" or anything as drastic as that, but an additional 1.5" will still look like a "normal" shoes, but mayhaps give you that edge you need.Fourth, charm.  I am a student of Walter Matthau because the man did not look like Steve McQueen, but still managed to be charming.  It won't fully compensate for being short (as my IT doppelganger has shown), but a devastating charm can add a couple inches in height.   Finally, if push comes to shove, Asian and Latin countries.  Women in these countries tend to be short.  And of course this is doing no service to our Asian or Latino brothers, but sorry guys, all's fair.  If height is pushing you out of the taller-Anglo/Scandinavian/basketball-player market, you'll just have to go to cultures where women are biologically shorter.  Whatever strategy or strategies you choose to pursue, the key lesson to pull from this is to realize just what a severe handicap being short is for a guy.  It's not a "minor" inconvenience.  It's not "something shallow girls insist on."  It is a genetically hardwired preference of women, neither to be berated or shamed.  It is a law, and a law you need to abide by.  
The Destruction of the Muse Machine 
Laugh as you might, but in my idiotic and naive youth I fancied myself quite the poet.  This was brought about in part because of advice from my father (he said girls like stupid poems) and my observation that a poem was a convenient vehicle to hit on a girl while also displaying wit and cleverness.Just one problem.Poems rarely worked and were the epitome of beta.Sure poems enthrall the girl you're already dating, but as a tool for "game" or attracting a girl, poems quickly showed their use - useless.Slowly, but surely, my poetry writing met the same fate as a gal bladder becoming an present, but obsolete, unnecessary and never used tool.Still, since that time roughly 15 years ago, there was the rare occasion a girl would suit my fancy, so much so I would be "inspired" to do something creative.  Poetry was just one thing, but there were other forms my creativity would eek out. Crafty ways to ask her out, line up unique activities for a date, or just be inspired to write the most charismatic of e-mails.  I didn't know it at the time, but what was happening was what I would later find out to be called the "muse effect."  A muse being a woman and her effect to inspire men to be creative and productive.At first hearing about it I dismissed this "muse" effect, but with wisdom and hindsight, it's as obvious as day that there is indeed a muse effect.  Matter of fact, it's so obvious the entirety of western civilization (and any civilization) was built off of it.  Mens' desire to procreate with women they are attracted to is just a powerful a force as gravity in this universe and all of our advances in all of the different fields as an indirect and inspired means to nail chicks is proof of it.A sad thing, though, happened one time.After countless dates with countless pains in the asses manifesting themselves as American women, my system was just completely worn down.  So much so (and I remember this quite clearly) I walked into a restaurant one time and there before my very eyes was the epitome of "my type of gal."Just imagine it "THE Cappy Cap Gal." Petite, redhead, with a little bit of that 90's grunge moxie chick thing going on.My lizard brain immediately went into default mode and I sent out to approach her.  Fully intending to spew some charming charismatic bullshit, I had not one iota of worry as I desperately wanted this woman so.  But as the neurons fired and electro-chemical pulses flowed and I was confident in my stride, I remembered, quite clearly, walking towards her with the full intention of asking her out, something abruptly slapped me across my face and stopped me dead in my tracks;My empirically-experienced frontal lobes said,"Wait, what's the point?"I remember the restaurant, and I remember the exact location I stopped.  And I remember leaning against the wall there for a solid 3 minutes debating with myself whether or not I should even approach the girl.What ended up happening was almost precisely what happens when you try to start a car with a dying battery.The engine just couldn't turn over.I just could not get excited about what was in front of me.I sat there running two concurrent debates in my mind.  The now-dying debate as to whether I should even bother approaching her versus the now more-recent discovery that I was not incentivized to approach what (as to up to that point in my mind) was the "perfect girl."  Taking inventory, I realized that my frontal lobes had vetoed my lizard brain so much so that while there was the natural and impulsive "wooza!" experience, it quickly faded into a simple, but 100% truthful and empirical excuse:"I'm too damn tired."Naturally, this accidental, nay, biologically forced decision ended up being the right one.  I decided instead of pursuing her to just sit and observe her.  And so, over the course of a year, patronizing this restaurant/bar I learned several important things.One, she was dating a loser whose only form of transportation was a peddle-bike.  He had tats, a dumbass haircut, worked as waiter and was about 33.  I was just this "loser" compared to him - 30, owned two cars, rental property, taught dance on the side and was still working in banking.Two, bar her physique, she was no catch herself.  Also a waitress, but also an "aspiring artist" painting "murals" at people's houses (her art work went nowhere).And three, after getting to know her on a platonic level, I learned about how hard it was for her to make rent and pay for groceries, and...well...to occasionally lend her boyfriend money.In the end I realized what happened.  My muse machine was broken.  No more could the mere glance of a woman prompt me to work harder, be more creative, or produce more GDP.  If anything, the more attractive a girl, the more my cynical and empirical mind would distrust her.  And while this epiphany helped me 10 years ago, it isn't until now I realized the severity and critical ramifications "broken muse machines" present to our economy.The blatant truth is men are the true innovators, shakers, and makers of this or any other economy.  Certainly there are some outstandingly productive women, but by and large nearly 100% of all economic production and creativity come from men.  And the primary motivating factor for men is the beauty of women.But what if women in this (or any other) society become so disagreeable their repugnance actually overrides and kills mens' biology?  It destroys their "muse machines?" Well, the answer is obvious - what we have now.Pajama Boy, men on strike, basement dwellers, video game players, man-childs, herbivores, etc.Call it what you may, you have an army of men who are just not incentivzied or mused any more.  And you can't really blame them.  Look at what is supposed to "inspire" them.I always love how "low t" and "erectile dysfunction" is presented as a "disease" or problem men have.  When in reality you damn well know the number one cause of erectile dysfunction is a fat, unattractive wife.  Throw in divorce, lippy attitude, socialist voting preferences, and genuine psychological problems, modern day American women are the anti-muse that are shutting down the engine of economic growth.  Nuclear bombs dropped from mother Russia herself could not be as devastating to the US economy and society as the unfeminine, loud, noxious, obese and uninspiring women that roam the landscape today.I mean, seriously, wow, ANOTHER overweight, short hair, tatted up, democrat-voting sociology undergrad pursuing her masters in social work with a cat that reads Cosmo and thinks The Daily Show is funny who thinks she's "unique" and "independent" while living off of daddy's credit card?Wow, let me fire up the ole creative juices and go paint the fucking Sistine Chapel!  I need me some of that all-too-common hairy-armpit bitchy government worker play!The truth is men have lost what has traditionally inspired them to be the awesome, creation and production machines we were.  And though it took a while, after 40 years of feminist propaganda and turning women into men, they were successful.  Women in the west are so homely, so physically unattractive, and (I would say above all else) COOKIE CUTTER COMMON they couldn't inspire a bear to shit in the woods.Naturally, women will be appalled and criticize such statements.  But when China cuts off the credit line or the Fed's QE-hyperinflation jig is up, the "uninspiring, not unique, not terribly intelligent, make work government worker, I'm an independent, worthless-degreed female that really offers nothing to society" bubble will burst and the importance of feminine beauty and genuine production will become painfully clear. 
When the Fuel Runs Out 
I've been kicking around a theory, one of which I've ran past Roosh and some other philosophers and theoreticians.Do men have a finite amount of fuel/energy?Fuel and energy for what, you ask.Fuel and energy for pursuing women.It seems a stupid question on the face of it, but when you think it through a couple more layers you start to see it's importance and ramifications.  Most of "sexual market value theory" is based on the relative worth of an individual where young women in their 20 something prime command the highest premium while men age more slowly, but surely into their 40 something primes.  This is the biologically "separation of powers" that nature has programmed into the human species to ensure not only its survival, but that no one sex gains the upper hand over the other.  But the entirety of this "model" (completely true as it is) is one-sided in its focus.It only focuses on demand for the respective sex.It never considers supply.And supply is the topic I'd like to address today.I took an informal survey a while ago asking men what percentage of their free time they dedicated towards the pursuit of women.  And like I surmised, the results showed a high percentage during their late teens and early twenties, only to dwindle to near nothingness in by the time they reached their 50's.  Matter of fact most men in their 50's had more interest in reading books than going out and finding favor with the opposite sex. This not only supplements the theory that men have a more long term advantage over women, aging like scotch while women age like milk, but deals a double blow to the "supply demand" dynamics of aging courtship.  Not only do men get better with age, they lose an interest in pursuing women as well.This isn't to say that men as they approach 50 don't notice a fine POA crossing their vantage point, but based on my observations they are less willing to spend the effort and resources in trying to procure a hottie. And who can blame them?If we revert back to lizard-brain-neaderthal times, calories spent was the primary calculation that determined if you lived or died.  Do I spent 5,000 calories of energy pursuing a herd of deer to MAYBE beget 6,000 calories of meat?  Do I spend 10,000 calories tilling fields to grow a crop to MAYBE beget 12,000 calories of food?  Though our minds have recently been inoculated against such biological mathetmatical realities for the past 100 years due to advances in food production, that doesn't undo the 2 million years of human genetic evolution that has trained mens' brains intuitively to calculate every proposition as such.Ergo, it is in man's natural instinct to constantly weigh the pro's and con's of effort expended on trying to mate versus the opportunity cost.  And with ample supply of food, not to mention an unlimited choice of substitute goods (video games, scotch, TV, sports, internet porn, etc.), most logically thinking males will choose the substitute goods and "rub one out" to quote Bill Burr, as that is the least expenditure of physical effort and calories and therefore provides them (according to their lizard brain) the highest chances of survival.This then leads me to my theory that most men have a finite and limited amount of "fuel."  In my younger, more idealistic, years, I would have contended a man's life force was unlimited.  He was truly limitless.  All he needed was mere support from society and a man's potential was unlimited.  While I do on a theoretical basis yearn to believe as such, living in the real world and seeing just how "anti-progress" society is, I've come to accept that a man's potential is indeed limited by the idiocy, closemindedness, bigotry, and anti-success-envy that rules the rest of society.  It not only is draining, but is also provides great disincentive at every step of a (would be) genius' advancement.  Constantly hounded about inequality, superior performance, the concept of "excellence," and bedraggled into the mundacity of "affirmative action," a true genius or society performer has the life and inspiration kicked out of them.  Combine this with progressive tax rates and a general hatred for the successful, men's fuel or "desire" to perform at their peak is severely deterred. This acceleration, according to my theory, "burns up" the "tolerance fuel" young men have for society, included of which is women.  A young man circa 1947 would graduate from college, know how to weld, and likely have a serious job offer at the local car shop.  He would have little to no problem finding a suitable woman to court and she'd be happy to court him.  Today, however, with $50,000 in debt, no job prospects, and a part time job at Starbucks seriously burns through whatever "patience fuel" a young man has today.  Throw in the generally bitchy attitude of most American female college graduates and you don't have June Cleaver at home to soothe your ills and support you, but rather a demanding, commanding, fuel-burning battle axe blathering on about her worthless liberal arts degree.  Not only does the lack of economic and employment opportunity burn away at your fuel, but the parasitic deadweight of liberal arts majoring bloviating entitled-thinking American females just evaporates whatever remaining fuel reserves you have left.Accelerate this scenario over the course of a 20 to 30 something man's life.  Poverty, constantly harangued with a never ending supply of self-entitled liberal female adult-children, and in the end, you will burn out.  You will lose your patience, and you will lose your desire to ever go to a club or a bar again.  And thus my theory.Most men have only a limited amount of energy, patience, tolerance, and naivete.  But once that runs out, they will rarely, if ever, go out to the club scene and present the "supply curve" of attention women so desperately want.  Over time, as men age and get wise, they will eschew the night club scene, and even the online dating scene, as they realize, time and time again, their efforts are wasted.  And since their efforts are wasted and said efforts are a very real and mathematical percentage of their lives, costing them genuine opportunity costs, they will scale down. The results are obvious:Less men at clubsLess men at dance classesLess men asking women out.Less men in generalThis isn't to say hot spots in NYC or Las Vegas aren't going to be teaming with DudeBroInc.  But it is to say that over time young men, after having the candle burned at both ends, will "burn out" running out of fuel and no longer have the energy or fuel to go out at night to find you.  They will be at home, watching Midnight Run, watching porn, grilling steaks or reading books.Just remember that when you're 42 and still think you have the right to fire up your "Bitch Shield" because nobody is watching. 
The Pornification of Jesus 
I had a picture sent to me of a totally ripped and buff Jesus on the cross.  I originally scoffed at it, dismissing it, thinking it was cute.Then I realized,"Holy shit, there's like millions of naive, young, Christian, but hornier-than-hell, dudes out there who are constantly compared to this perception of Christ by the "only" women they're allowed to sleep with - Christian women."So as a gesture of goodwill and faith between us secularists and our religious brothers, I thought I'd provide my two cents about this to perhaps maybe advance their cause to nail some hot Christian ass breed more Christians.Boys, this is the key problem you face with modern day "Christian" women - the pornification of Jesus.Look, you're already a nobody compared to Jesus.  I got it beat into my head I was not Jesus.  You got it beat into your head you were not Jesus.  We all got it beaten into our heads we were not "perfect in the eyes of God." However, while this should not have an effect on your romantic relations, there's a disturbing trend amongst young Christian girls where Jesus is not just their spiritual "savior," but their:husbandboyfriendprovidersoul mate gigiloand, crass as this may be, masturbatory material (any takers that this is not the case sometimes?)So how precisely do you compete against that?The answer is - you don't.You cannot compete against perfection.And it is here that I humbly request that you consider a humble secularist's opinion.  Primarily that:1.  These self-proclaimed "Christian girls" really aren't Christian and instead use the religion as a tool to leverage power over youand2.  If you choose to be ignorant of their un-Christian intentions you will be taken advantage of by fraudulent, faux, fake ChristiansThe truth is that most 20 something girls (and boys) are not capable of the mature, adult, indepdent thinking that is required to fully vette and think through something as soulful and important as religion.  Ergo, nearly 100% of the self-proclaimed "Christian" women you're trying to date really do not deep down inside believe what their parents have shoved down their throats the past 20 years.  Ergo, my humble, evil, heathen, secularist opinion is, that any women, especially under 30, who adamantly proclaims to be a Christian does not do so out of geniune deep and ponderous thought, but rather manipulation and self-advancement.  Perhaps not consciously, but it IS DEFINITELY not for Christ.  The social benefits that come from joining a religion, the mental calm not having to ponder a godless universe, and the mental stability in having an always loving, always forgiving father/husband figure around.While these things ancillary benefits to religion can be considered "good" things, the problem is there's a dark side to believing in a religion for ulterior purposes.  Namely to view/abuse Jesus/Christianity as an excuse, a perpetual forgiviness, but worst (and most tempting of all) a tool by which to abuse, extract resources from, lord over, and control naive people who actually believe their claims of faith.No doubt many of you young Christian men have ran into arguments where your logical and well-reasoned points were mooted, if not, completely dismissed with a mis-interpreted quote from the bible.  No doubt many of you have been told "they just don't see Christ in your heart."  No doubt you've been compared to Super-Alpha Jesus.  And, like everybody out there who's dating a Christian girl, you no doubt have a story where she "just couldn't date you" citing religious reasons, but then went out with some guy who violated thrice the rules she had placed on you (mine is one who got drunk, made out with an illegal alien, then complained to me he was calling her.  But we couldn't kiss after a second date because we weren't engaged).The larger point is that I simply request you stop, take off the Christian goggles for a second, step back and look at what is happening empirically. Are the majority of Christian girls you date using religion and Christ as a means to enhance your relationship?  To be a better person?  To make your time together more enjoyable?OrAre they using it as a tool, if not a weapon, to constantly keep you on edge, criticize you against Christ, lecture you, berate you, and ultimately control you making the relationship painful and like pulling teeth?Perhaps you can see it from this here secularist's viewpoint.  
Die, Night Club Industry, Die!!! 
Upon returning from Wyoming and having no real job in hand, I revisited my life's motto of "security is security" and ended up working for a security company a friend owned.  They specialized in armed security so most of the gigs were prisoner transport, body guard work, and the infamous "protecting spoiled rotten Saudi Prince brats and his entourage of 120 equally douchy elitists."  However, before you were allowed to work one of these easier shifts, you had to prove your mettle working the hated "parking ramp shifts."These "parking ramp shifts" were really nothing more than "baby sitting the night clubbers" shifts where you would prevent fights, stop people from pissing in the stairwells, watch black women fight over "their man," and even prevent the occasional Russian body builder from kidnapping a pass-out party girl.  This was only made infinitely worse in the fact we had to patrol on foot which, during Minnesota winters, made life miserable.But through all the headaches and hypothermia that comes with baby sitting the Twin Cities' club-going filth, I did notice something those 3 short years ago - there was only a FRACTION of the night clubs that used to be open during the 90's. First Avenue (a night club) was still the "anchor club" of the Twin Cities and still in business.  Same for The Gay 90's.  And The Fine Line, another reliable standby, was also open for business.  But nearly every other club or bar I went to was now gone.  Daddy Rock's was no longer.  Banana Joe's gone.  Even Old Chicago (not a club, but just a bar) was gone too.  And they weren't necessarily replaced with new clubs either.   In short, there was by my quick economist eye only about 40% the amount of clubs that existed during my night clubbing days 20 years ago.Fast forward three years to today and it's even worse.Solera, gone.The Times Cafe, gone.Fhima (a St. Paul club), gone. "Block E" (an entire BUILDING of night clubs) gone. And the over-hyped, over-rated "Capital Grille" gone (thank god).There is just nowhere near the night club life that once existed in the Twin Cities. Of course, as economists are wont to do, they research things they see happening in real life.  And after poking around on teh interwebz the death of the night club industry is an interesting and telling death.First, there is not so much a "death" in the night life scene as a stagnation and a shift.  Revenues for the "bar and nightclub industry" are stagnant, if not slightly dropping if you account for inflation.  However, the Minneapolis club scene has not "stagnated," it's cratered.  So how do these figures jive?  Simple, the data is for the "BAR AND night club industry."While nightclubs may be tanking, bars are doing quite well.  This would explain why nearly every night club I attended during Clinton's administration are gone, but the neighborhood bars are still around.Lee's Liquor Lounge, The CC Club, Jax Cafe, etc., all neighborhood bars, all still in business.Second, this is corroborated by the most cited reason for the industry's decline- "The Great Recession."  While Gen X may have been whooping it up in the Dotcom days, drinking and partying themselves into oblivion, they at least did not graduate into "The Great Recession."  Their modern day Millennial peers have.  And not only are the Millennials facing the worst job market since the Great DEPRESSION, they are also saddled with more college debt than any generation in the history of the world.  Combine that with their worthless degrees and they plain don't have the money to afford a cover charge and drinks.This has led to two behavioral changes.  One, Millennials now pre-drink at home, getting within one drink of a proper buzz.  And two, they avoid cover charges, commuting/parking expenses, and DWI's by walking to their local bar.  The third reason for the nightclub's demise, however, is the really interesting one.  Because no professional publication or researcher can speak of it, even though it is the core and the heart of the nightclub business - sex.  Specifically women.When we wipe away all the politically correct "industry research" jargon and cut through the bullshit, night clubs are all about men wanting to get sex from women.  And even though they may not come outright and say it, club owners are ACUTELY aware of this and it shows in their business models.EVERY nightclub knows you have to get hot women into the club, otherwise the men (with their money) will not show up.  Therefore you have "ladies night," drink specials for ladies, sometimes women even get to drink for free, and if you're a 20 something female in America you don't even know what a "cover charge" is.  This presents a problem however.  Wherever there are hot women, horny and thirsty men are sure to follow.  And their constant advances will inevitably scare away women.  Therefore, how do you get women to show up AND stay AND return next week?Make the nightclub environment incredibly hostile towards men and incredibly tailored towards women.You ever wonder why nightclub music is not only shitty, but incredibly loud?  It's so the girl can get you to buy her a drink, but not have to talk to you.You notice how the music is the most monotonous remixed pop top 40's crap that has not an ounce of talent in it?  It's because girls like it and men don't.And you notice how you have to stand in line, while a cute girl with a short skit gets to jump in line?  It's not only because they need her as "seed capital" to "get the party started."  They need to wear you out so you don't have the energy to approach (and thus harass) women in the club. It is this "love hate" relationship nightclubs have with men (and their money) that they must delicately balance where you are encouraged to part with your money, but deterred from actually having any sexual success with women.  And if they do it right, you'll have spent at least $50 of your money with them and have no girl to show for it.Now, for the past 40 years this business model has worked.  And using back of napkin statistics men have transferred roughly a trillion dollars worth of wealth to women in the form of drinks, food, cover charges (and flowers if you were stupid enough to fall for that gag where the guy is hocking roses in a bucket).  But there has been an incredible game changer as of recent.  One that completely obsoletes this model and has completely rewritten the rules for many other industries as well.The internet."Fun" as it is to go clubbing, because of the challenging environment it presents to men, it gets tiring.  And even the most ardent of club-going men will burn out and seek for alternative ways to pick up women.  So after spending 5 years in the nightclub scene, forking over $50 a night, to maybe, just MAYBE get laid 3 times, the majority of men will inevitably do a cost benefit analysis and leave.  However, whereas in the past "leaving" meant giving up and basically staying home (or trying to "meet girls at church" or work, etc.), now men can get what they want (sex) by going online. And the reasons are just too compelling.First you waste nowhere NEAR the amount of time you do going clubbing.  There's no commute.  There's no finding parking.  There's no waiting in line.  And there's no competing against 3 other guys for the same girl.You fire up your laptop, set up a profile, and start firing off messages.Naturally, the vast majority of your advances will be rejected and is the primary reason many men say online dating isn't worth it (for example a recently divorced friend of mine complained he had to spend a full hour a night online to get a date for that weekend).  But a mere hour a night is NOTHING compared to what 20 something men pre-internet invested daily in their pursuit of women.Second, the financial costs.  Online dating is effectively free.  Either by going through Plenty of Fish, Tinder, or meetup groups where you indirectly try to find women, there is really no significant added marginal cost to start online dating.  Contrast that with 40 nights a year of clubbing for 5 years at $50 a pop, and you save yourself $10,000 in explicit financial costs merely going online.And finally, the sanity you save.  In going online you avoid the nearly impossible environment that nightclubs have become:  Women who have their "bitch shields" up as they gussied themselves up earlier that evening with their friends in sort of a "pre-game pep talk," making them froth at the chance to shoot men down (and consequently cry themselves to sleep later that night because "they can't find a man.")The 100%-USDA-Certified-Full-Backing-and-Faith-of-the-US-Government GUARAN-FREAKING-TEE that there will be a fatty cockblocker there to pull ANY girl you're having success with away.The "herd" you must masterfully penetrate or wait until a weak one separates herself from the herd, only to have the mother hen fatty cockblocker come in and "save her from you."All while under the constant and never ending assault and barrage of the monotonous bass-beating of hiphop, rap, regatone, or whatever the latest "girl power" top 40's song that came out that week.No, you just pour yourself a nice scotch, throw on Jazz24.org, and click away.Certainly, there are economic reasons for the decline in night clubs.  And certainly there are sociological/demographical reasons for the decline in nightclubs.  But although the data is not perfect (there is a report I found for $1,500, but I'm not going to buy it), the real threat nightclubs face is that they no longer hold a monopoly on (effectively) the only legal means by which men ultimately pay for sex/dating.  And in the face of competition from the internet their current business model is too punishing financially, mentally, and time-wise for any young man with the slightest bit of self respect and common sense.Perhaps, with luck, there will be no need to patrol those parking ramps in the future. 
How Much of an Advantage Do Hot Conservative Women Get? 
DISCLAIMERS:1.  I do not HATE anybody in the group of women used in this study (bar Katie Kieffer, who I don't even hate, I just have no respect for).  Many of them are intelligent and accomplished, some of whom I do listen to regularly...while many are not.  Do not take this personally if you know you are one of those women who are talented, who do make original content and do NOT mere regurgitate conservative talking points.2.  I am aware that there are other people on the lists you would like to see.  These lists were compiled with what I had and in a non-scientific fashion.  I will gladly add others to help the accuracy of the study.  But for now, this is the data I had to work with.3.  Data was adjusted for Dana Loesch's insanely high twitter followers.  The official "final" ratio was calculated taking an average of all three "final" ratios.  Criticize the methodology as you like.A well known fact about life is that pretty girls have it easier.That's not an opinion.That's not a guess.That's a fact.However, I was curious just HOW MUCH of an advantage there is.Specifically, instead of being a super awesome economic genius trapped in a 5'9" average looking male body, what if I was instead a very average mind trapped in a cute 20 something female body with a nice set of perky tits?So I set out and asked all my agents in the field to send me examples of hot conservative or libertarian babes that had an internet presence.  I then averaged both the number of their Twitter followers and YouTube subscribers.  I did the same within my professional circle of right leaning MALE internet celebrities and then calculated the ratios of female Twitter followers to male Twitter followers, as well as the ratio of YouTube subscribers.This was the result (below):
In short, when you average it out women are paid a premium of 512% over their internet male micro-celebrity counterparts.Now, again, this is nothing new.  And I'm not even going to argue against it, for it is human nature.  A hot conservative or libertarian female is much RARER than an average looking conservative or libertarian male.  What I will, however, file a complaint about is the quality of each group's work.Certainly there ARE accomplished, intelligent, insightful people on both sides.  However, when you average it out, it is just not comparable.  The sheer number of ditzes in the female list REALLY DO get by on their looks.  Again, I don't "hate" anyone on either list, but when a girl is essentially paid 5 times to regurgitate talking points Limbaugh made before they were born, or epiphanies I realized on my blog when they were in grade school, don't tell me all the men in the conservative or libertarian movement are "deep philosophical types."  They're just your regular average horny guys who happen to vote Republican.  That is the market you are serving.  Not your high-minded economic and political intellectuals.Finally, (and I have mentioned this to my pretty AND SMART conservative and libertarian female friends) if you are: 1.  A pretty AND SMART conservative or libertarian female2.  Who is looking for a job,3.  And have the slightest bit of camera presence4.  And are willing to show off some leg and cleavage,you will find no easier career than being a "COLBOTI" (Conservative Or Libertarian Babe on the Internet).  You will make 5 times the audience your male counterpart has in 1/5th the time, making 5 times the money.  And if you happen to actually be SMART and not just a cute set of tits, you can write your own ticket for the rest of your life.I know this post sounds cheeky.  I know it sounds arrogant.  I know it may have insulted some people.Too bad it's 100% true.Ladies, take advantage of that 500% advantage. 
How Socialism Makes Women Barren 
Arrogance and cockiness set aside, I would make an awesome dad.  I did not forget what it was like to be a child.  I know that once I had a child my life would be put on hold and dedicated towards raising "The Spawn of Clarey."  I would not brainwash him to be a leftist, a feminist, a rightist or a Christian, but would instead impart upon it logic, empiricism, morality, philosophy, and independence letting it choose its own path in life.  And above all else, unlike nearly all my Gen X parental counterparts, I would actually stay at home to raise The Clarey Child instead of outsource it to a government baby sitting farm or "day care" concentration camp facility.  It is without a doubt that I would make a great dad.The irony of course is that this entire discussion is moot since I had a vasectomy 10 years ago.  And while the reasons for having a vasectomy was many, the primary one was that I just could not plain support a child, let alone myself.  And bringing a child into this world would not only ruin what pathetic finances I had in the past, but would just not be fair to the theoretical Clarey Spawn.Of course times change and now at the age of 40 I could theoretically afford a child.  I work from home, I have a (albeit small) house.  And my source of employment is stable (self employment) guaranteeing the income to put food on the table and pay the mortgage.  But though this situation is specific to myself the question everybody should be asking as it applies to millions more is"40?"Think about it for a second.  Biology and nature says I've been ready to have a child for about the past 28 years.  Society, tradition, and law says I should have been able to have a child since I was 18.  But why, a full 28 years after I'm able to, and 22 years after society says I "should" have children, is it now that I actually COULD have children?The answer is economics.I've pointed it out before, but there is a disconnect between human biology and our current political-economic system.  Specifically, today's political-economic structure does NOT allow people to breed when nature is telling them they should.  I first was MANDATED to go to school till the age of 18.  This was largely a pointless exercise in that nobody today will hire a high school graduate, let alone pay one an adequate salary to raise a family on.  This then mandated I go to college for an additional 4 years.  Of course, this dumped me into a labor market that would be ravaged by the Dotcom crash and I would limp along employment wise eeking out a meager living teaching dance and working security for the next five years.  There was hope working in the banking industry, but this hope was quickly dashed as it was so hopelessly corrupt and dysfunctional (not to mention low paying) that the income security needed to raise a child was never there.  Throw in the financial crisis, the housing crash, and the Obama economy, and it wasn't until this Earth made 40 orbits around the sun that I would be in a position to support another human being in this world.Of course, as mentioned before, this discussion is merely academic.  But the point I'm making is that our society, economy, educational system, labor market, government, and employers are making it increasingly difficult, if not impossible to PROPERLY raise a family (and by "properly" I mean the 1950's way, not the ghetto culture, Wyoming way where women spread their legs and ask the government to replace the daddy). And this is sad for it is other humans that is the most important thing in life, and it is usually your spouse and your children that are the most important humans.Now I can sit here and pontificate arrogantly and cockily because I have no skin in the game.  Not only can I "not" have children, I still to this day definitely do not WANT them.  But, even with a vasectomy if I wanted to I could still HAVE children.  It would require either a direct extraction of sperm from the testes or a reversal of my surgery.  But the REAL reason I can take this position is that my sperm does not have an expiration date.  My sperm can impregnate any woman from here until I'm dead, carrying on the "great Clarey genetic legacy" if I so chose to.But the same cannot be said for women.Naturally, we all know by now that women's eggs have an expiration date.  Menopause hits by a certain age, and even then the eggs start to deteriorate in quality post 30-32 running the risk of birth defects etc.  We don't need to hammer this point anymore, we are all aware of it.  But while women are acutely aware of the tickity tock of their biological clock, what they are completely unaware of is the non-biological side of this formula that is also working against them.  Namely the same economic, political, and sociological forces that made it impossible for me to have children until the age of 40. And while that number, 40, may mean nothing to men, it definitely means something to women.After 40, frankly, forget it ladies.  It's over.  You're not having kids.  And if you try, you're gambling not just with your theoretical child's life, but your own.  But before you get all angry at me for being the messenger telling you biological truths, you need to look back and ask who and what made it so it was basically impossible for you to have children and raise a family in today's society.First there was the same mandatory K-12 education I had to take.  In all honesty the average education delivered by the K-12 system could be shrunk down easily to K-8, allowing us an addtional 4 years of youth to pursue a career that would support a family.  But who do you think is at the core of stretching out this now-economically worthless education to last 13 years?Republicans?Tories?Conservatives?The Patriarchy?No, it's your good socialist friends in the democrat and labor parties who need to live off of your entire childhood mandate you go to school until you're an adult so their main political contributors (teachers unions) have jobs.   You're now 18.Then there's college.  Remember, K-12 education has been so diluted, so dumbed down, NOBODY will hire you.  So now you need to spend another 4, more likely 6 years of your youth getting MORE education.Who predominantly controls acaedemia and benefits from you postponing your life another 4-6 years?Leftists.  You're now 24.Of course, unlike the first "13 years" of your education, you get to pay an egregious price for your last 6 years of education - tuition.  And with that comes an inordinate amount of student debt.  Certainly you can't start having a family until you pay this off.  But complicating this issue is that the economy hasn't been growing this slow since the Great Depression, making good paying jobs scarce, and your student loans a monkey on your back for at least 6 years.But who told you you needed to go to college?  Who pushed you to get a masters?  And who told you to vote against those "evil" corporations, rich people, investors, and all those other entities that create those JOBS you'd need to pay off your student loans?Hmmm...that would be leftists.  Congratulations, you're now 30.Now here things are a little different, for while at this age men are FINALLY allowed to start working off their student loans, start a real career, and maybe work up a down payment for a house, women are barraged with propaganda to do something else.  Namely, what feminists have been telling them to do for their entire post-pubescent lives - live life, party, you go girl (TM), travel, climb that corporate ladder, have it all, etc., etc., etc.And so do women starve themselves, live in basements, get out of debt, and start looking for a proper suitor to raise a family with?Hell no!NOW it's time to PAAAARTAAAY!!!!!Let the flirtini's flow, the car payments commence, and the accumulation of shoes begin as you store it all in an overpriced downtown flat you can barely afford!  You've EARNED IT GIRLFRIEND!And so prompted by feminism (not to mention corporate interests of the likes of Vogue, Oprah, etc.) you party another 10 years.But if I recall correctly aren't Oprah, Jezebel, feminism, and all those writers at all those snarkey cheeky lifestyle magazines are leftist?  Congratulations, you're now 40 (but don't worry, you're a "cougar!")And finally, how can we forget the final nail in your eggs' coffin driven in by feminism?  The blatant, bald-faced lie that looks don't matter.You were GORGEOUS just the way you were girl!  You are BODY POSITIVE!!!! Big is beautiful!!!And any man has mommy issues if he doesn't want to sleep with a human oil tanker.  He's also "shallow" and a "jerk."Of course looks do matter, tremendously, to men.  But alas, you wanted to believe sweet lies over harsh truth and lived a lie your entire life, making you not only too old to have children, but physically unable to attract a mate.  So super-congratulations!  You believed the (again, LEFTIST ideology of) feminism and have now not only ruined any chance of having a family, but attracting a mate as well.I could go on, but the larger point I want all women to understand is that it is NOTThe "Patriarchy"The Republican's "War on Women""Lad culture""Rape culture""White Males" or"Evil Corporations" who are ruining your lives.It's the left.It is the left who wants to enslave you at a school where you learn nothing till you're 18.It is the left who mandates you into thinking you need a college education to have any worth in this society.It is the left that tells you you are oppressed and need to be freed, replacing your family with a career.It is the left that convinces you to ignore the biological programming and demands of the (necessary) half of humanity needed to bring and raise children in this world. And it is the left that tells you you need to spend money on stupid crap to have fulfillment in life.In reality, all they are doing is takingyour money,your youth,your vote,your love, your family, andyour lifejust so they can stay in power and enrich themselves.  And once they have sucked as much of your financial and life blood out of you, they will dump your ass into the real world.  A world you are WOEFULLY unprepared for, and one you offer nothing of value to.So please wake up and take the time to identify who your true enemies are.  If not, enjoy your masters degree, cats, body-positive "slut walks," and articles about freezing your eggs. 
Blame Women (Disproportionately) for the Collapse of Western Civilization 
THE GREATEST GIFT Human history has basically been the struggle for freedom.  And it has been a struggle against two things:1.  Natural elements or "limitations" (such as starvation, thirst, disease, famine, cold, heat, predators, etc.)and2.  Other humans.The natural elements that limit human freedom have been fought against (and largely won) with advances in technology, agriculture, economics, and science.  We've eliminated starvation and thirst through agricultural technology, cured diseases through medicine, and though we have yet to unlock the secrets of immortality, the majority of people today do not spend their time searching for a clean water source or worrying about where their next meal is coming from.However, whereas "natural limitations" to human freedom can be solved through vaccines, technology, and other cures found in the physical world, the human-induced limitations to freedom (called "tyranny") cannot.  By their very nature they are human, which means in "eradicating" humans would wipe us all out, tyrants and innocents alike, leaving no human history to speak of.  Thus, instead of "simple" solutions such as vaccines, farming methods, economic advances, etc., the solution to human tyranny has been 6,000 years ofbloodtoilslaverywartearstortureand other incalculable amounts of human suffering.However, slowly, but surely human kind has made advances in pushing back the tyranny that once enslaved us all.  First it was fighting against the warlords and tribal chieftains who merely enslaved entire tribes for their own enrichment and pleasure.  Then it was against religious theocracies who, again, merely used deities and the threat of hell (or burning at the stake) to enslave entire populations for their own advancement.  Monarchs and kings were nothing more than glorified warlords who were "benevolent" enough to let their peasants participate in the euphemism of slavery called "serfdom."  And even today, after billions of gallons of human blood has been spilled we have outright dictators and despots who, again, use their people as cattle to live high off of.But still, after all of this, some humans have managed great advances against tyranny.  And after many wars, reformations, revolutions, Magna Carta's, and constitutions, a genuinely free society in the form of Western Civilization formed, arguably with the United States of America as its most refined product.  For the first time in history humans can do what they want, say what they want, believe what they want, but above all else, be entitled to the vast majority of the fruits of their labor.  They are no longer slaves to a tyrant, slaves to a theocracy, or serfs to a king.  They are their own masters who self govern themselves.  And it is this - that man has freed himself from not just nature, but other men - that is the pinnacle achievement of human kind.This freedom, which has cost more than anything else in terms of human blood, time, toil, suffering and sacrifice, is the greatest gift humans have ever given themselves.  In letting people keep the majority of the proceeds of their time and have agency over their own lives humans have made the most incredible of advances over the past 300 years (which is roughly when freedom started to become prevalent in Western Civilization).  We have solved hunger, we discovered automation, we discovered electricity, we achieved flight, we've eradicated disease, founded computing, unlocked chemistry, and a million things more, all of which have allowed us to create lives for ourselves that are so amazing and rapidly advancing they were incomprehensible to merely a single generation before.It is the proverbial finger free men can give the past 6,000 years of tyrants.But all of this, ALL OF IT, hinges on one thing - that people are allowed to remain free and be entitled to the vast majority of their own production and be the masters of their own lives.  And if we lose that, we lose everything.Enter in women.WOMENWomen, in a historical context, of course have always been here.  They are a part of human history as much as any man.  However, they are not the primary actors, participants, or determiners of human history, largely in part because of biology and nature's "natural tyrants."  Women are physically weaker, thus less prone to wage war and participate in battle.  They also are the ones to get pregnant, again physically limiting what they can do in a world largely ruled by "might makes right."  They also are more nurturing, psychologically predispositioning them to stay at home and rear the children.  And they also have boobs (which if you didn't know) was nature's kind of authoritative way of saying, "Yeah, you're the one who's going to stay off the battlefield and rear the children."This is not to belittle or besmirch the role of women in history (of which there are many examples of women in history).  It is however to point out that the vast majority of human history has been determined and made by men.  Consequently, this greatest gift of freedom, that was so hotly contested for over these past 6,000 years, was bought and paid for by the deaths, blood, toil and suffering of hundreds of millions, if not, billions of men.  Additionally, it is men who have availed themselves of this freedom, well beyond that of women.  The VAST majority of all scientific advances have (once again) been discovered through the mental sweat and toil of men.  And while we can all certainly rush to point out the occasional female scientist or inventor, this fact is blatantly apparent, even today, where the majority of STEM students are men, and the majority of "social work" majors are women.The point, however, is not a competition as to "who created what" and what the sex ratio of corpses were on history's battlefields.  The point is this freedom, and the commensurate AMAZING technology and INCOMPREHENSIBLY easy life that came with it, was available to both sexes even though men largely earned it.  And with these amazing advances in technology, life got so easy (in historical terms) that humans no longer had to worry about the natural tyrants that historically oppressed them (disease, starvation, sanitation, etc.), but could now focus their efforts on much lesser problems.What were these problems?  Well, more of the sociological variety.EgalitarianismEducationHealthFamilyCrimePsychologyEtc.However, a very interesting one was the issue of women's suffrage and equality.Previous to this, and admittedly by nature, women were just plain not allowed into the management and leadership of society.  Men had paid the price, literally, in blood, sweat, and toil, and it was laughable at the time that women would have a say in economic and political affairs.  However, with technology (invented by men, afforded to them by the freedom they paid a dear price for), pressing matters such as war, famine, disease, etc., were becoming less and less frequent.  Additionally, labor saving devices created by the industrial revolution (*COUGH*, MEN!) allowed women not to be anchored at home, as well as allowed them to work, earning a keep just like men.  Furthermore, it wasn't as if raising children and maintaining a home was not work itself.  Ergo, there was a good and compelling argument to consider letting women have the vote.  And so, in 1920 the 19th Amendment was ratified in the United States and women were allowed to vote.However, whatever the logical, economic, philosophical, not to mention, MORAL reasons there were to let women vote, you cannot deny there would be HUGE consequences in literally DOUBLING the voting population to include a group of humans who are biologically, psychologically, mentally, and emotionally different than men.  And the primary fear that would result from such a dramatic shift in voting rights is that the world's greatest gift humanity gave to itself (freedom) would be undone.  Women would vote for more state intervention, reinstating the human tyrants, essentially undoing what hundreds of millions of men had fought for over the past 6,000 years.Of course, on the face of it, this is laughable.  No doubt such concerns were scoffed at during the early days of women's suffrage, just as they would be today.  Why would women CONSCIOUSLY vote themselves and the rest of humanity back into tyranny?  Who wants to be ruled by a dictator?  Who wants to slave away for the government?  However, if we are to look at the empirical data and see how women have handled the responsibility of voting we see that is PRECISELY what they're doing.  And there is sadly no debate about it.Again, the vast majority of human history has been a struggle for freedom from its oppressors.  It has been minimizing the government that lords over them and maximizing the individual.  It has been allowing people to keep the majority of the fruits of their own labor and control over their destiny.  And the way you can tell whether somebody in Western Civilization is for freedom or not is quite simply this:Do they vote for more government?Or do they vote for less?This further simplifies into the direct actions of:Do they vote left?Or do they vote right?Do they vote labor?Or do they vote conservative?Do they vote democrat?Or do they vote republican?And while admittedly, there are certainly flaws with ALL political parties, it is the voting action that belies the intention of the individual.  And women's intention has been for more government, a larger state, and less freedom.Unfortunately, the data is not perfect as it only goes back to the Eisenhower administration (and please provide me better data if you have it), but it will suffice.  The best data I could find on voting patterns for women is the presidential Gallup Poll that measures the lead (+) or deficit (-) democrat candidates had among men and women.  (This graph takes a bit of thinking to understand, but for the sake of simplicity it's best to read it as (if there's a positive sign) men/women like the democrat +X or (if there's a negative sign) men/women hate democrats -X.)
But regardless of the complexity and shortcomings of the chart, the point is very clear.  Women prefer a larger state and less freedom to men.However, within this chart there are two other important observations.One, (you have to read the numbers, not just look at the right column) originally women actually preferred the republican candidates over men, especially during the Eisenhower administrations.  They even preferred the ugly Richard Nixon over the hot and handsome John F. Kennedy in 1960 (though not by much margins).  It wasn't until 1972, and especially 1976 did women switch to preferring a larger state.Two, this switch accelerated rapidly from 1976 to 2012, going from just an 11 point preference over men for a larger state to a full 20 point preference with Obama's second election.This doesn't make a lot of sense since if women were supposed to be the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse for Western Civilization, then why did they wait a full 50 years to start voting in a larger state? The answer may be found in a study conducted by Dr. John Lott and Dr. Lawrence Kenny.  
Just because women were granted the right to vote didn't mean they all went to the polls that day in 1920.  A lot stayed home.  A lot voted the way their husbands told them.  Some of them still didn't find it their place or right to vote.  It takes about a generation or so for different groups of people to fully avail themselves of the franchise.  This makes a lot of sense in that if you add roughly 50 years to 1920 you get 1970 where women voted "in force" and showed their true "pro-government colors."But while this may explain the increase from Gertrude voting in 1924 to Janis Joplin voting in 1972, it doesn't explain the increasingly passionate love-affair, nay, stalker-like-obsession women have had with the government from 1972 to today.  Why are women increasingly fanatic about having a larger government?Well the answer can also be found in the dates.  1972.  Feminism.While the Susan B. Anthony's of the 1890's wanted the right to vote, own property, and sign legal contracts, the radical feminists of the 1970's were nothing but outright marxists who cowardly hid behind their genitalia claiming it caused sexism and thus entitled them to a lifelong government check.  While for the most part they could be written off as such, unfortunately they largely got into a key position in society that would further influence future generations of women to come.  The only place that would take them.Academia.And it was from our colleges, universities and other educational institutions that feminists have very successfully convinced two full generations of young girls (Gen X and the Millennials) to vote against freedom and for an increasing state.Now I could go on measuring the various ways women vote for tyranny over freedom, but the point is that for whatever reason they do.  And worse, increasingly so.  They vote for the government at the expense of the individual.  They vote for dependence rather and independence.  They vote a government check before a paycheck.  And while we can sit here and debate about whether that's the price we have to pay for equality, or that maybe men were wrong this entire time, and that maybe its time for a different approach, they ARE doing precisely what we feared.  They are undoing what all of human history fought for these past and painful 6,000 years.  They are undermining freedom.  They are destroying Western Civilization.The question is whether we as a people, both male and female, love the freedoms afforded to us by the countless sacrifices of countless generations before us enough to have the courage to merely state this fact.THE COSTS OF NAIVETYBut while women (as a group) tend to vote for tyranny, the question is whether they do this consciously.  Whether they do it maliciously.Do women wake up every morning, licking their chops saying, "I can't wait to bring down Western Civilization today!"Or are they just naive, blissfully believing the sweet lies politicians tell them about free education, free health care, free child care, free food, free housing and free everything?The answer is rather clear.Very few people are genuinely evil and wish bad things upon others.  And we can safely say that the majority of women are NOT evil people who wish to destroy the best development of human history.  And though there are some genuinely evil people who DO wish to destroy and harm others (feminists and SJW's) the vast majority of women are well intentioned, caring people.The problem, however, is you can be the sweetest woman with all the best intentions in the world.  If you're naive or ignorant to the point you're wrong, you'll still have the same effects of being an evil, malicious person out to cause damage.  Thus, whether out ignorance or evil, society is going to pay the exact same price no matter what your intentions.  And so, as women vote and make other decisions in life about how the country should be run, Western Civilization suffers because of their ignorance and naivety.The first and most obvious of these is money.Money is not the root of all evil or some kind of tool of control of evil capitalists.  It is your time.  It is your life.  It is what you get in exchange for forfeiting a fraction of your FINITE life in the form of labor.  You then use this "root of all evil" as a means to SUPPORT YOURSELF and KEEP YOURSELF ALIVE.The freedom of speech is one thing.The freedom of religion is another.But the freedom to be entitled to the majority of the money you make is the most important freedom as it is your LIFE.But women think nothing of voting in tyrants who want to take it.Readers of my blog are already intricately aware of the amount of money governments take from their citizens every year.  They are aware of government spending to GDP.  They are aware of government debt to GDP.  They are aware 70% of the state's budget goes to income redistribution.  They are aware of the difference between a million and a trillion.Your average Western Civilization female voter is not.You average female voter is a by product of her evolution, environment, genetics and upbringing.  And therefore your average female voter is stuck in "stage one" thinking where she:1. Wants to solve a problem, but2.  Doesn't know how much it will cost, but3.  Doesn't care because she never looked at the budget anyway because4.  She thinks "the government has unlimited money" because5.  She really doesn't know the difference between a million and a trillionso6.  Votes for more government spending anyway.
The problem is she LITERALLY does not realize that money just doesn't come from "poof" out of nowhere.  And she CERTAINLY does not understand how the government just "printing off more money" would result in hyper-inflation.  Thus, in a very naive and child-like way, she will do what is logical to a 7 year old.  Vote for more government money, consequently voting the country that inch further into tyranny and enslaving us all that micro-second more in taxes.Now, you multiply this times 150 million women, over the course of now four generations and you get what we're all familiar with.  Debt to GDP of 110%.  Government spending as a percent of GDP of 40%.  Slowing economic growth, etc.  But the larger point is the relationship between women voting and government is not merely one of more "socialists" being elected, but increased government spending which DIRECTLY lessens the amount of money and TIME we have to ourselves.
Unfortunately, the costs female naivety does not stop at a simple increase in our tax bill.  The consequences cascade horribly from there.  For in voting for an ever increasing government, you by default crowd out the people it governs.  And with government accounting for now 40% of GDP"something's gotta give."The first thing that gave was men, specifically in their role as fathers, husbands, and heads of households.  Previous to women's suffrage and the massive expansion of government, men were the nucleus of society and the economy.  It was around a man families and society were raised.  And it was his economic production that supported them all.However, as women voted in more and more social spending they effectively replaced men with the government.  It was no longer the man who brought home the bacon, but the mailman who delivered the government check.  It was no longer dad who would feed the kids, but the EBT card afforded to you by Barack Obama.  And it was no longer father who paid the mortgage and kept a roof over the family's head, but HUD and their section 8 housing.Soon women started asking the question 1970's feminists were dying them to ask all along:"Why do we need a man?"And sure enough 73% of black women, 51% of Latinas and 28% of white women agreed.  Why did they need a man?  And those respective percentages of women went forth and had illegitimate children thinking a government check was a superior substitute to a father.Sure enough, without purpose or agency in life, and their birthright as a man taken from them by a government check, more and more men lost all hope and started checking out of society.  They started marrying less, working less, substituted real women with porn, and lived vicariously through video games.  They were no longer the strong and intrepid men like their WWII ancestors, but unincentived lifeless men with no direction and purpose.  And with the economic nucleus of Western Civilization disheartened to the point of inaction, economic growth started to slow.With the engine of Western Civilizaiton sidelined from their original roles of fathers and husbands, the next chip to fall was, naturally, the family.  Without a father around the American family started to disintegrate.  There were of course pre-ruined families called "single parent" home, denying children from birth the right to a stable nuclear family.  But even those children "lucky" enough to have been born to a husband AND wife, only stood a 50/50 shot of having a normal childhood as half of all marriages ended in divorce.The wife wasn't "haaaaaapppyyyyy"And she needed to "fiiiiiind heeerselllllffff"and the feminists were there egging them on every inch of the way.Sure enough more than half of all children born from the 1970's on would be brought up in non-stable, non-nuclear families.  And while this may have been championed by feminists and other true enemies of Western Civilization, it took a devastating toll on those children who were the future generations of America.  Depression, suicide, crime, debt, divorce, alcoholism, nearly every single social and psychological ailment you can think of is positively correlated without having a stable, nuclear family to be brought up in.  Alas, not only did half of America's future endure this, it left such a bad taste in their mouths the smart ones said, "never again," swearing never to have children, tanking the birthrate and putting an end to American families.This relates closely to the third domino to fall, lost sovereignty.  Since leftist politicians (as well as rightists) want to stay in power, they will do whatever they can to ensure they are in control of the government.  This not only means bribing the naive portion of the population with "free everything," but it also means sacrificing the nation itself.  As long as these tyrants don't have to work real jobs they, will do whatever they can to stay in power.Enter in immigration.I find three things cute, endearing, and ironically tragic:1.  The "refugee crisis" going on in Europe2.  The illegal immigration debate in the US and3.  The rape epidemic in SwedenIn all three cases men and women, rightists and leftists alike, are against, if not aghast at what is happening in their respective countries when it comes to immigration (and well, that whole rape thing).In Europe nearly everybody is against the allowance of 2 million "refugees," but their governments still allow it to happen.In the US 76% of democrats are against illegal aliens and amnesty, but again, our government allows it to happen.And in Sweden, ahhhhh, lovely socialist, very pro-feminist Sweden.  There's a "bit" of a rape epidemic going on due to the immigrant Muslim population there.  But nobody dares grow the balls to kick them out in fear of being accused of racism.Now in all three cases the women, I presume (and especially in Sweden), are against these immigrants coming into their respective countries.  However, even with broad support from people all across the political spectrum the governments (leftists ones mind you) ignore the desires of their people and let these immigrants in knowing full well they will never return to their countries of origin.Why?Because it will keep the left in power.  It will expand and ensure future government control.  Those are all future leftist voters who will demand future leftist politicians. Alas, this is the perfect example of how women's naivety deals another blow to Western Civilization.  Even though women are generally against illegal immigration (and I would presume also rape), they never get past stage one thinking of: "Well the democrats/labor/left is for children/the little guy/the poor/the old/fluffy bunnies, so I'm going to vote for them."But then are surprised when leftists like Tony Blair or Jack Kennedy sell the sovereignty of their nation to foreigners who plain don't care to adhere to Western Civilization, if not outright hate it, so they can ensure they and their party remain in control of the government.Again, it doesn't matter what women's intentions or expectations are when they vote.  If they vote for the wrong people the effects will be the same as if a malicious and evil person, intent on destroying the country, voted.  And allowing a people from a culture that is non, if not anti-Western Civilization is arguably the final blow to the long term survival of Western Civilization.THE SOLUTIONTo be frank there is none.  This entire post is merely one for posterity wherein I will be able to say "I told you so" for the rest of my life, as well as an exercise in philosophical and theoretical thought.  The left is too heavily funded, well too positioned in education, media, government, and the universities, and have done such a great job of brainwashing women that there will never be a significant percentage of women that will wake up and heed the points I've made above.  Additionally, (in a comedic, but still 100% truthful sense), in the wise words of Bill Burr,"Women are surrounded by this tornado of misinformation [about how great they are], and nobody corrects them because we want to f#ck 'em!"However, if we are serious about not throwing away the best gift humanity has ever given itself, and we do not wish to dishonor the untold number of men who paid incalculable prices over the past 6,000 years, we need to look at who has the right to vote.The obvious solution is to rescind women's suffrage.  The various leftist political parties in western nations would never recoup from such a loss and we could very easily enact (or rescind) the legislation necessary to put Western Civilization back on the fast track.  However, this is not the answer.  If we rescind women's right to vote, then why not blacks?  If not blacks?  Why not Jews?  If not Jews, why not dashingly handsome half-Irish economists with a penchant for video games and motorcycle riding?  That road merely goes back to the tyranny we're wishing to stave off.The answer lies in the founding principle of Western Civilzation - Merit.Admittedly, I've been very hard on women in this treatise (but rightly so).  However, while the majority of women do vote against freedom we all know women personally who are not naive, who do not vote with their hearts, who are not stuck at stage one thinking, and actually do know the difference between a million and trillion.  We know women who DESPERATELY love their husbands, desperately love their children, and take the time to study the finances, economics, and politics of this nation before ditzily casting off their vote for the politician who promises them the most money.  Concurrently, we also know blacks, hispanics, asians, Jews, Madagascarians, gays, eskimos, Indians, Muslims, agnostics, Catholics and lesbians who also earn their keep, study the country's finances, and also desire to vote for freedom and against the state.  Ergo, we cannot rely on mere physical traits or religious beliefs, but rather whether they are contributing members of society who have EARNED the right to vote, not merely "spat out of a vagina within the US' borders."  And there ARE ways to do that, some of which have already been done.For example, in the embryonic years of the United States you not only had to be a white male to vote, you also had to own property.  The founding fathers had this requirement because not only did they not want blacks or women to vote, but because they also didn't want stupid white men to vote!  You couldn't just have been "born a white male."  You also had to prove you could work and manage your finances accordingly that you were a productive member of society.  And requiring ownership of property was a proxy for that hurdle.However, while that may have had the intended effect in 1790, today we have the technology that a much better and much more meritorious voting franchise can be given - taxes.Very simply, if you want to vote you need to have paid taxes.If you collect a government check.  No.If you're on EBT.  No.Are you on TANF?  No.Disability?  No.Social Security?  No.Housing assistance?  No.Attending a state university and getting a subsidy from the taxpayer?  No.You MUST BE a contributing member of this society, paying into the government to have a say in how the country is ran.  You must NOT BE a parasite collecting a government check making you by definition a ward on the state.  This discriminates against no one, but ensures those who are paying for the government are the ones determining how it is managed, and is thus far in my economist's mind of thinking the best way to award the right to vote.Of course, sadly, as I said before, this is all academic.  Too many people who are too vested in the demise of Western Civilization already have the vote.  And too many people (both men and women) are just plain too damn stupid, ignorant and naive to listen to reason, evidence, logic, and reality.  But let it be said and noted that when Western Civilization finally collapses, when Rome v. 2.0 falls, when humanity's greatest gift to itself is taken away it was the female voter and her naivety that was disproportionately to blame.  And those 6,000 years of human pain, suffering, sacrifice, blood and war was undone by 60 years of childish, spoiled, petulant feminism.










MISC.











Collecting Cans and Crawfish 
My first job I took at the age of 3.  I was a thief.  My dad, piss poor due to piss poor decisions, made it so we (my brother and sister) had to share a large McDonald's soda in an effort to save money.  He would strong-arm bites out of our REGULAR hamburgers (because Big Macs was what only the rich kids could afford - and you CAN follow up with any of my relatives and they will attest to this) because he himself couldn't afford a burger for himself and needed us to "share." Christmas was nothing more than a ruse for our parents to excuse what should have been normal purchases for children implied with parenthood (clothing) as "cherish gifts" while toys were never at the forefront.  What kid doesn't want another freaking sweater from St. Nick.  Toys were rare, pants were common.  And if we dared to complain, "Jesus will send you to hell" or some variation of material possessions being evil.  And so VERY early on I realized that if I was going to make any money, it wasn't going to come from my parents.  It was going to come from me.My exploits into capitalism were amateurish at best.  My very FIRST foray into enriching myself was rummaging through the coats in the closet at the age of 3.  Scouring the pockets of every coat, I would manage to find loose coinage, the value of which I was unaware of because I had no concept of "cents" let alone currency.  Whatever it was, I was excited when I found a quarter with its intricate eagle design and intuitively knew it was worth more than the bland, boring Jeffersonian nickel.  Technically this was theft.  I was stealing from my parents.  So at the age of 4 I went professional.  I earned my money the honest way from the Milwaukee County Zoo.How?Well, the soda machines had a fair amount of loose change hiding underneath their structures which permitted an already skinny 4-7 year old to fish out with his arm and make off with.  Every year and every trip to the zoo I would ignore the animals and go straight to the soda machines.   I think one day I made off with about $2, which was a fortune in 1980 dollars.  To hell with the alligators and gorillas.  I was making bookoo coin.By 1981 I decided to become very entrepreneurial and try my hand at salesmanship.  I was going to sell frogs at church."Sunday Vacation Bible School" - which was nothing more than the worst, most boring form of baby sitting for Christian parents too lazy to take care of their kids during summer - was mandatory for me, because...well...my dad was the pastor.  But there were benefits of being the preacher's kid.  Namely the exhaust port of the church made for a great humid environment where frogs and toads would spawn on the north recessed basement window of the church.  I would hop down.  My brother, 2 years my junior, would lower a bucket with a string attached to it.  I'd load up the bucket with frogs and toads, hop back up and then stand at the entry to the church in anticipation of the Sunday Vacation Bible School students.Why in anticipation for the Sunday Vacation Bible School students?Because according to the Wisconsin Synod your children were required to bring offerings to Sunday Vacation Bible school and we knew those kids would gladly hock the 25 cents their folks gave them for a frog instead of donating it to some collection plate. Our brilliant, grandiose capitalist plot would have succeeded had it not been for the observant teacher who, while handing out the collection plate, realized more than a normal number of children were holding frogs and toads and not one of them had cash nor coin.Again, you ask any of my relatives, and they will attest that all of the above is 100% true.Now, admittedly all of my early ventures into business were that of a naive toddler who didn't know "bounds" "rules" "limits" and..well..."law."  But when I was 8 I can honestly attest to having my first REAL  legitimate job.I went straight.  I started collecting cans.My dad, after divorcing, moved out to Michigan, where we would spend summers with him.  At the time you could get a whole 10 cents per car, and sometimes you'd get a full 20 cents for a large glass beer bottle.  Knowing I would get another sweater and no candy for Christmas, it was, despite my age, a very CLEAR sign of freedom to me that if I collected enough cans I could buy myself whatever I wanted.  NOBODY could stop me, I was in complete control of my future.So I spent a summer collecting cans.Dumpster diving.  Going to the beach to solicit empty beer cans from the locals.  Knocking on doors.  And over the course of the summer I earned myself a full $100.  I collected 1,000 cans, the 1,000th of which the recycler gave back to me as a trophy. (I actually turned it into a trophy, until my step dad threw it away assuming it was garbage).However, I had a side business.  My 8 year old self knew the importance of diversification.Crawfish.Specifically, fishing out crawfish from the Black River in Michigan and selling them at 5 cents a pop to the local bait shop.This was not as lucrative as collecting cans, but between my siblings and myself, we would literally "clear the market" of unwanted cans and bottles within a week in the town.  You could tell there were less cans and I intuitively KNEW it was because we cleaned house the week before.  Once collecting cans became less lucrative, we'd focus our efforts on our crawfish operations and increase our profits.  I was able to turn a bucket of crawfish into several boxes of Nerds and Tart n' Tinys at the local gas station.From there I ended up working as a shit shoveler in the 7th grade.  And I don't make that up, I was indeed a shit shoveler.  I worked at an industrial greenhouse where we had to shovel and mix various sorts of manure with various sorts of ingredients because different types of manure have different nutritional properties for different plants.  After that I worked at a locker plant cleaning up dead cow parts.  After that I laid sod and installed retaining walls for a landscaping firm.  And after that I played campus cop at the U of MN (which I think most of you are familiar with).   Now, why did I bring up my entire pre-adult resume?  Well certainly not to get an "awww, wook at da cwute wittle Captain."I bring it up because I am done listening to the excuses of the youth today who think they have it tough who, by the age of 25, have never worked a real job that even comes close to what I did back in 1980 as a kindergartener.  Whether it's been tutoring these adult children or trying to teach them in college or whether it's the latest incarnation of OWS/hipster purified douchebaggery, I'm done with it.  I'm sick of it.  I have no patience for these spoiled brats.You little children have NO CLUE, NONE  as to what it takes to succeed, let alone merely get by and support yourselves.  You have parental subsidy, governmental subsidy, all of which not only shields you from the full effects of the real world, it stunts your growth from ever becoming a real adult.  Worse still, it spoils you in the truest sense of the word.  It decays you, it destroys your worth.  It makes you a worthless human being because instead of offering something of value to society, be it a skill or labor, you offer nothing.  And even worse than that you are entitled.  You demand, because of your mere existence, other people take care of you.  You're entitled to this.  YOu have a right to that.  Gimme food, jobs, health care, housing and spending money.While all you've managed to do in your entire life is spend your daddy's credit card and drive mommy's car.Ultimately it is the reason I don't care about the "plight" of college students.  NONE of you come anywhere near supporting yourself, and certainly nowhere near to the point you can claim you're "independent" (feminists, women's studies majors, pay particular note).No, you are for the most part the most pathetic excuses for "adult" human beings I've ever witnessed.  And while admittedly, I was not the most "normal" 7 year old, at the age of 7 I was already more of a responsible, independent adult than most of you were, or ever will be, even at the age of 32 while you live in your mom's basement. So the next time you protest something being unfair while your mom and dad and Obama are paying for 99% of your expenses (of course, all the while you claim to be an "independent adult") just look at the little 8 year old dumpster diving for cans and realize he's a better man than you are.  
The Market Failure of Talk Radio 
It is no secret that I listen to left wing talk radio. It is also no secret I've cited the reason I tune into left wing radio is because I can finish the sentences of right wing talk show hosts.  This is not a slam on them, but more of a testament to how much of a "wonk" or a political "hack" I am.  After 20 years of listening to talk radio, not to mention that minor "economist" thing I do, nothing surprises me anymore, nothing is new, and thus for intellectual pursuit I go elsewhere.While that may be my particular case, that does not mean it holds for others.  Sure, younger people coming into the world of adulthood tune in.  Young college boys, disillusioned why women hate them, why their professors hate them, and why they can't find jobs, start to find an explanation why the world isn't turning out they way their high school teachers said it would in right wing talk radio.  Young women who can't find a decent date might listen to Dennis Prager.  But after 5 years the "treatment" of talk radio runs its course much like an anti-biotic treatment - it ends.  It does no more good.Now this isn't to say that Rush Limbaugh is going to fail or that Sean Hannity isn't going to be renewed for another decade on Foxnews, but this is to say there is the beginnings of an un-served market.  A growing group of people, primarily young, but old as well, who have just plain had their fill and derive no significant marginal utility from listening to an additional hour of Michael Medved.And it is here the "right wing talk radio" industry is making their largest error and setting themselves up for spectacular market failure.First, understand that the message all of nationally syndicated talk radio conveys can be consumed, digested and incorporated in the average human brain in about 2 years.  After that there is an "addiction" phase where you like to hear your logic confirmed by people who aren't lefitst ideologues that can easily run a decade.  As you age, however, you start to gain confidence, knowledge, and wisdom.  No leftist or media campaign can confuse you or make you second guess yourself.  YOur ideology is resolved, it's cemented, and it's verified.  You no longer need talk radio.Second, I'm sorry, the "current" crop of talk radio show hosts are not really "current."  However, this needs some explanation.Understand radio is a business.  YOu need to make money.  The great thing about radio, however, is that it can be syndicated or broadcasted across the nation.  So when a radio station has the choice of hiring some local talent and having to pay that individual a living wage, or merely "leasing" the broadcasting rights for a nationally syndicated show for 1/10th of the cost, what do you think they're going to do?  Yes, this results in regional superstars like "Jason Lewis" or "Michael Medved" but it also results in homogeneity.  Homogeneity that can be predicted, gets boring, and gets stale. So while it may be financially beneficial to go with established, seasoned radio show hosts, it prevents any new talent, let alone, better talent from getting in.  Additionally, since this more or less ensconces established talent, it also ensures this talented is aged, old, and separated from upcoming generations, and thus, markets. It is here we have the third contributing factor to the market failure of talk radio - their inability to address younger generations.  This isn't to say that Rush Limbaugh or Michael Savage don't talk about the debt problems older generations are foisting on younger generations, but rather the fact they plain don't speak to those generations.  Admittedly, this may be a losing proposition.  Most younger people are dumber than hell, ignorant as f$ck, and are so spectacularly brainwashed they'll vote to endebt themselves further, let alone, berate and mock anybody who points this out to them.  But in failing to engage the younger generations, they anchor themselves to the life expectancy of older generations.  THis brings up another point...Fourth, legacy issues.  If I have a complaint about the work I've done it's been the outright impossibility to get any of the work I've done into the "main stream right wing media."  I've had some decent success.  Glenn Reynolds and Dr. Helen have been kind enough to mention my books.  Even Peter Schiff has been kind enough to host me on his show.  But these people can't be considered to be "chummy chum Foxnews Elites."  For the most part the Sean Hannity's and Michael Savages of the world aren't going to give their younger counterparts the time of day.  They're too busy asking Charles Krauthammer for their latest talking points, and we all know how much Charles Krauthammer jives and resonates with the hip kids nowadays.  The largest point is who precisely is going to replace the Rush Limbaughs and Dennis Pragers of the world?  Who exactly is being groomed to follow in their footsteps? About the ONLY younger person I know of ANY notoriety only has a WEEKEND show and that is Ben Ferguson.  There isn't anybody else i see under 40 being considered as candidate for any significant take over.Fifth, an industry will arise to serve and un or underserved market.  Introduce the internet.  The internet is not predisposed to younger generations just because it's new, but talent that would have normally been recruited or attracted via traditional media norms are simply refusing to jump through the hoops to score a "gig" or a "contract" with traditional media.  It's too costly and the cost-benefit ratio between time spent and opportunities given just isn't there.  A young, intrepid and out-going individual can simply circumvent traditional media and build their own brand.  They don't need expensive radio equipment, satellites, buildings or broadcast studios, they just need a computer and internet access.  They also don't need to placate the masses, but can speak their minds.  Not just because there's no boss to relegate and regulate their speech and thoughts, but because there are no opportunities or employment opportunties elsewhere.  There is no consequence to being edgy or cutting edge, because, what?  "It was going to ruin your chances at a career?".  This presents the market with not only a more diverse "talk radio/podcast" selection to choose from, but more entertaining and thought provoking.  A talk radio selection that is infinitely more thought provoking, engaging, and entertaining that the stale, milquetoast, cookie cutting tripe that's been going on for the past decade.Finally, the death knell for talk radio. This new media, no matter how much it is in its infancy, is more profitable to advertisers.  Because renegade podcasters, bloggers, and Youtube Peachers have no restrictions, no employment prospects, let alone, no requiements to be palatable to the masses, they have more loyal listeners.  Because their message is so focused and so directly speaks to their intended audience it is more intimate and sincere.  It is now a daily occurrence I get a "thank you e-mail" from a reader or listener who thanks me for sparing him/her from majoring in a worthless subject.  It is also becoming a semi-daily occurrence that I receive a thank you e-mail for helping a young man with his dating and courting issues.  These two narrow topics are not as wide a scope that Jason Lewis tackles on a daily basis, but advertising on my blog gets a higher rate of return than advertising on his show (AND I WELCOME ANYBODY OVER THERE WHO WANTS TO CHALLENGE IT).  In other words, because of their celebrityship and broad market, advertising on talk radio is a bubble, it isn't worth the rate of return, if positive at all.  But if you're willing to advertise onThe Tom Leykis ShowDan CarlinBill BurrCaptain CapitalismRooshStaresattheworldSmall Dead AnimalsFive Feet of Furyor any of the THOUSANDS of smaller blogs, internet radio shows, Youtube Clergy, etc.you'll get a heck of a lot more bang for your buck. Besides, would you rather hear about a conservative's attempt to seduce a hot a liberal chick  or Sean Hannity say for the 8,000th time, "You're a great American, my friend?"  
How to Exact Your Toll of Revenge on Bankers 
Listening to the Bill Burr podcast, one of his common refrains is to rip on the bankers. He recently bought a house and realized that he more or less signed away his life for 30 years.  However, like most teens-50 somethings, he has a very simple understanding of economics and because of this defaults to blaming a handful of bogie men for the condition of the US economy, bankers being the most prominent.Like blaming "big oil" or "evil corporations," he doesn't really know what he's talking about.  To figure it out would take too much time and effort, and since it makes simple logical sense in his world view of economics, his ire and hatred is directed towards bankers.  However, unlike "evil corporations," "corporate executives," and "big oil," Bill Burr, and every one who disproportionately blame bankers for the ills of our country...are right.Though accidentally right, I am here to tell you now, after working in banking for nearly 20 years,  Bill Burr and everybody else who blames bankers and the banking industry for our economic problems today are right.  Bankers are the verminous scum you suspected them to be and you should have every ounce of contempt, despisement and hatred for them.Are there some good bankers?Of course.Are there some banking executives that truly are there to make good loans and grow the economy?Absolutely.But in my experiences such quality people account for less than 15% of those employed in the banking industry.For the most part, bankers and banker-eqsue types fall into two categories.Dumb and evil (and sometimes both in a Venn Diagram sort of way).Dumb bankers lack the intellect and mathematical skill to fully analyze and assess the quality and risk of loans they are making.  They have practically no knowledge of accounting or financial analysis and out themselves rather quickly by being the "rain maker" or "salesman" (or most commonly admitting to playing high school football).  They're always "in it for the deal" or "trying to find a way to get it done."  In reality they are simply that.  A knowledgeless salesman trying to get a commission on a product that is flawed to a person who is unlikely to pay them back.  They don't care about loan quality, they don't care about their clients, they don't care about them employer, and (since the banking industry is backed up by the FDIC and Fed) they don't care about the taxpayer.  They have no other skill and very much like other pure-sales jobs, quantity is quality because they get their commission.  Again, not because they're evil, but they're too stupid to connect the dots between a taxpayer bailing them out and the crappy loans they constantly bring to committee.Evil bankers can be stupid as well, but typically know, or at least don't care, what they're doing.  They KNOW the client isn't going to pay them back.  They KNOW they're condemning the client to file for bankruptcy in the future.  They KNOW they're financially crippling their clients, their employer and the nation, but they just plain don't care.  They're going to get their commission regardless of morality and will sell anybody under the bus if it financially benefits them.  They view themselves better and more valuable than most people and is again why (I explain in "Worthless") most finance majors are finance majors because they are too lazy to  study calculus, but still want to make the salary of an engineer.    Worse still, in booming times when it's nearly impossible to NOT make money, they charter their success to their "intelligence" and not the massive macro-economic forces behind that success.  They buy luxury cars they can't afford, houses they can barely pay for, and trophy wives sure to learn the difference between debt and equity spending when they invariably divorce.In short, it is not only perfectly normal, but it is your right to hate, loathe and wish the utmost of atrocities upon most bankers.Of course "the utmost of atrocities" would largely fall under "illegal."  Much as I would like to hunt down bankers I personally know and release an unimaginable hell upon them, I can't for it is illegal.  However, that doesn't mean you, I or anybody else can't exact our toll of revenge from the banker scum, especially in a legal matter.  And that is what I intend to show you how to do today.Understand that while you may think bankers are sitting up top some sky scraper, smoking cigars on a mahogany desk, that is the furthest thing from the truth.  The majority of bankers are not your "Goldman Sachs" types living it up and whooping it up with other people's money.  The vast majority of bankers are miserable people, who just like everybody else, has every day problems.  But worse for them (and this where your revenge comes in) is the fact they work in banking, and this makes their lives miserable.First, the banking industry is different and unique from most other industries in that it constantly gets bailed out.  However, there is a negative consequence to that.  Recessions, much like your liver, filter out deadweight and underperforming companies and people.  If you can't provide a good product at a good price, booming or busting economy, you simply go away.  This "survival of the fittest" aspect of economics is not only a law, but ensures that only the most competent, efficient and productive people remain, getting rid of the losers.However, in bailing out the banking industry this "purging" or "purification" process never takes place and crappy bankers, from crappy banks get bailed out and/or simply go down to the next crappy bank to start a new job.  In other words it would be like you eating some salmonella-infected food, which your body promptly vomits up, only for you to re-eat it, re-sickening yourself again, re-puking yourself again and so on and so forth.  Bankers, for the most part, are this regurgitated vomit constantly re-introduced and never-leaving the banking industry.But ask yourself the question, how fun or productive is it constantly having to work with regurgitated vomit?  In other words, with such a low-quality and low-caliber class of people employed in the industry, can you imagine how painful it must be to work with such losers?  8 hours a day of dealing with inept co-workers, none of which are competent at the 8th grade math banking requires?  Egomaniacs who all think they're better than one another, and the politics, back-stabbing and corporate BS drama that ensues?  I've witnessed it and experienced it and it is PAINFUL.  It is veritable torture to go into work, day in and day out and deal with such ineptitude, egomaniasm and deceit.  It is this fact, that most bankers must suffer their own ilk, that should give you at least a couple of ounces of flesh.Second, the bankers are one thing, but the clients are another.  Matter of fact, they're equally low-class and low-quality as the bankers.  And not only do the bankers get to tolerate each other, they get to tolerate their miserable clientele as well.At one bank I worked at the fattest, most disgusting woman (she looked like the gal in Raiders of the Lost Ark who was having the drinking contest with Mariam) traipsed her obese ass into the bank to cash a check.  The check was for $6,000, an amount this sow never saw in her life.  She was always overdrawn on her accounts, had well over $1,000 in fees, and was just a miserable, pathetic, excuse for a human being.  But what made this great was just how obvious it was she had printed this check off of a cheap ink-jet printer.My solution was simple - call the cops and get this vermin arrested for passing fake checks.But oh, no.  Not for the staff nor my boss.  How did we know it was fake?  How did we know she purposely printed this off?  Besides (and pay attention to this) we needed her late and overdraft fees because those (despite never being paid) made this a profitable account.Another client came into my office wanting a loan.A loan for what?A loan for GAS MONEY.Gas money for what?Gas money for (and pay attention to this) visiting his new-born grandson in Denver that had to get heart surgery due to complications of the birth.I didn't know what angered me more.  Him lying to my face with some BS story or the fact he was a 60 year old man resorting to make ends meet by requesting a BANK LOAN FOR GAS!!! Regardless, I could go on with stories, but you get the point.  Most bankers are not dealing with quality clients, quality borrowers who intend on paying them back.  Most clients are cut from the exact same regurgitated vomit cloth as the bankers.  And this makes the bankers' lives miserable.Third, along the line of crappy clients is the fact that the majority of work bankers do today is not developing new business or lending money to help expand some successful operation today.  It's dealing with problems from the past.  Specifically, "problem loans."Problem loans are loans that are simply that.  Problems.  They're not getting paid back, the client is late, the client has split town, you name it, the bank isn't getting paid.  This then requires the banks to "resolve" these problem loans. However, here is where the banks and bankers shoot themselves in the foot.Since the economy still sucks, there are no new or potentially profitable loans to make.  This puts the focus and onus of most banks today on saving EVERY SINGLE PENNY FROM THEIR PROBLEM LOANS.  In other words, since there is nobody banging down their door to borrow money, they instead focus on trying to save as much money as they can from bad loans.  This means around 90% of a banker's time is spent dealing with:1.  Collateral that has deteriorated WAY below what is owed on the loan.2.  Tracking down problem clients to hopefully, maybe, potentially getting them to make a payment.3.  CONSTANTLY negotiating with their vomitesque clientele to refi, extend-and-pretend, short sell, restructure their loans4.  CONSTANTLY hounding the clients to get 2009-2012's tax returns, balance sheets and financial statements5.  Tracking down assets that had been stripped of the property and pledged as collateralIronically, however, a vicious spiral develops.  Since the only business most banks have are these problem loans, they are practically forced to constantly keep these losers afloat.  This chains most bankers to their loser clientele, making their jobs even more miserable and providing you an added ounce of flesh.Fourth, Frank-Dodd.  Frank-Dodd is legislation that resulted from the financial crisis and housing bubble.  In short it is a MONSTER of a piece of regulation and I cannot emphasize just how detailed, invasive, and petty it is.  I was paid for two days to (and pay attention to this) change a cell in an Excel spreadsheet from reading "Sources of Repayment" to "Financial Capacity of Repayment" for all of our loans.  There rarely wasn't a day where our contacts at the OCC and FDIC weren't handing down some new and minor change our bank had to make.  And so petty and pointless were they, I was and still am to this day, convinced Frank-Dodd was nothing more than a means to punitively punish the banking industry.Does such regulation hurt the economy?Absolutely.Does such regulation prevent loanable dollars from getting out into the economy, harming economic growth.You bet.Does Frank-Dodd drive up the cost of banking for consumers and customer?Darn tootin'.But it is a NIGHTMARE for the bankers and banks to deal with and they deserve every second of it.In the end, what you need to do is step back and look at what has become of the banking industry.  It is not this high-flying, romantic, booming and advancing field that it may have been.  It is not the "Mad Men" sort of martini's and golf Hollywood has painted it as.  And it certainly isn't a functional or sane segment of our economy exploiting you or other innocents.It is hell.It is

Arguably now the most regulated industry in the country (bar medicine)
Populated by the country's most incompetent and corrupt people
Serving, pampering and baby sitting the country's worst financial basket-cases
Whose only future prospects are cleaning up messes of the past with no economic growth to exploit in the future

And that same banker scum, that disproportionately caused the economic and financial problems we have today, are forever condemned to work in that industry because...well...frankly...they have no other talents and no other industry would ever hire them.  They are stuck there with the regurgitated vomit both as coworkers and clients for the rest of their "professional" lives.And knowing that is where you should get your full pound of flesh. 
Hotel Vagabond 
"Adventure is out there!" is a quote from an average Disney movie that I took to heart anyway.  The movie was "Up" and the quote originated from a scene in the movie where the hero of the film was having a flashback to his childhood.  He worshiped an Indiana Jones/Howard Hughes like figure from the 30's that had escapades and adventures from South America and the young boy wished to emulate him.  The reason the quote "adventure is out there" resonated with me so well as a 36 year old man was that it completely confirmed what I already knew.Adventure IS out there.Understand the average American yutz sits on his or her ass watching HGTV, going to the gym, eating at Applebee's, and maybe daring to have the audacity to get "hammered at Champs" if they really want to get risque. But none of them leave their 40 mile urban/suburban protective radius and try to explore things.  They plug in, day in, day out, their regular crappy boring lives, never daring to explore or do something different, almost as if they're giving a proverbial finger to god or whoever gave them this shot at life.God - "Hey, I gave you life.  And not only "life" but like human life.  So you aren't like a worm or a tick whose life is going to be really boring and suck, you get to be the most intelligent and advanced creature on the whole freaking planet.  So what are you going to do with this amazing gift?"Typical American -"Well, I thought I'd piss it away. I'm going to go do what everybody else is doing and go to college, get a mind-numbing career, have kids I can barely afford, get a divorce and not discern myself or make this one great opportunity you gave me unique.  No, I'm going to just piss it away like everybody else watching reality TV shows."And thus they waste their one precious life. However if one were to ever just go on an adventure and "go where no man (or very few) have gone before," they might discover some things.  And not only would they discover things, but they would discover them quite easily.If anything has been shocking to me in my adventures it has been the ALMOST NEAR GUARANTEE I would find something interesting if I just walked off the beating path.  For example, most people drive ALONG SIDE ON THE PERFECTLY MANICURED ROAD of the Badlands National Park never daring to walk more than 10 feet from pavement..  I "dared" to hike 500 yards in and found machine gun shells from when the park was a pre-WWII bombing/testing range not to mention a fair amount of fossils.  People always go agate hunting where the POSTED SIGN SAYS "AGATE RESERVOIR" where I have the"bold""audacious""revolutionary"idea to look outside the reservoir and find(I'm not kidding you) a $3,000 agate from a place NOBODY ever thought agates were.And while most people are going to the hip clubs and bars, I was able to find the old 50's/60's lounges where the original pianist still plays at the piano bar, the original clientele celebrates their 50th wedding anniversary and martini's are cheap and bountiful because the lounge doesn't have a mortgage to cover because they paid it off back in 1977 and can still made decent profit charging $4 for a martini.But the best discoveries you will have are not finding cheap drinks at old lounges, WWII casings, or precious agates.  It will be other unique and interesting people.  And thus, why I bring up "Hotel Vagabond."Find as many agates as you want.Find as many fossils as you want.Find as many lost Ute Indian archeological finds you want.The truest and most interesting discovery comes from finding new and interesting humans.I was already blessed on this trip with meeting the WWII sniper, but let me tell you another gold mine the milquetoast, cookie cutter, SWPL, Eden Prairieite, Applebee's going crowd will never experience - the colorful group of clients at the Skyline Motel.The Skyline Motel is when I like to stay when in the southern end of the Black Hills.  The reason is simple - it's cheap.  It also happens to be closer to the agate beds I like to scour and thus to make the most of my vacationing dollar and vacationing time I stay at least a couple days here.However the Skyline Motel is off the beaten path.  Both physically and financially.  It is in Hot Springs, arguably the farthest southern town in the Black Hills and thus not a lot of tourists come here.  It is also VERY cheap (cheapest in the Black Hills) and thus you get not only some shady, but colorful characters.  THere isn't a year that doesn't go by where there isn't some kind of crime or ballyhoo, but at the same time this motel, in part because it allows monthly rentals, attract a lot of free spirits from across the west.  A plurality of the clientele are older men in retirement looking to get away and live on the cheap.  And while disheveled in appearance, it is merely a ruse for they too are explorers, wanderers and adventurers.For example you see a bunch of drunks pounding down 40 ouncers.  But what you don't see is the two vets (and one economist) who are happier than pigs in mud.  You don't hear the stories they have and interesting lives they've lived and the wisdom they impart.  You also don't see the math and finances (these guys are set for life).  And you didn't see what they did that day (I returned from a near 300 mile motorcycle ride, these two, and some other old timers at the motel, fired up the grill and had burgers and hot dogs).It only a person with a keen eye who might pick up the smile or the gleam in their eye and realize their lives have not only been fuller, but they are happier.  But let me tender another bit of evidence as to how looks are deceiving.  This is the room of one of the guys.
I didn't want to take more pictures so as not to violate the man's privacy, but the place was immaculate. He has the set up.  Just a small one bedroom hotel with his sitting chair, his TV, his car pictures and all he needs.Regardless, hanging out with these old timers, listening to their stories, watching them interact and give each other guff (they're like a crass version of Matthau and Lemon) all under the glow of an old school 1940's red neon light (see below) is a thousand times the discovery that will ever be made at your local sports bar.  All one has to do is step outside their front door and keep walking.  The people, things and adventure will find you.
The Work Place Post Baby Boomers 
Dear Baby Boomer Bosses,This is now officially my new office.

I know you suffered the past 40 years of your career in a sunless cubicle, the destination of which you aimed for with countless hours in traffic during a stroke-inducing commute,and then, after you were a good little boy/girl, foregoing your children, outsourcing them to daycare, so you could chase the almighty dollar, maybe, hopefully, after enough brown nosing, ass kissing and "networking" got promoted to the office WITH A DOOR (giggity!),but technology has advanced enough that offices, cubicles, and massive office tower skyscrapers are officially obsolete.Notice that rectangular looking thing to the right?  That's what we "youngin's" call a "laptop."  These "laptops" are also computers and serve the same function as those "desktop computers" you keep insisting me and my generation ball and chain ourselves to.It has all of the functionality, but with the added benefit of PORTABILITY meaning we can work from anywhere.Also notice it's seemingly not hooked up to anything?Well, that's where the wonders of this thing called the "INTERNET" come in.  You see, the "INTERNET" is this...well, you know what, it's too damn complicated for people who listened to too much Jim Morrison.  The short version is that I can do work from anywhere.  I'm able to send e-mails, make pointless MS Word and Excel documents that impress you, but do nothing to boost profitability for the firm.  I can do EVERYTHING you want me to, but I don't have to be indoors AND I can e-mail those TPS reports to you just the same.Oh, you noticed that snifter glass did you? No, that's not water.  That's Rumpleminze.You see, I'm what's called an "adult."  It's a foreign concept, so let me explain.  You see, I can get my work done, I can do it in a very high quality manner, and I can do it, not only without you looking over my shoulder, but I can do it while imbibing a bit.  I know, crazy, huh?  You thought with your social security, medicare, multi-trillion dollar deficits, and the destruction of the world's greatest country, YOU were the only *COUGH COUGH WHEEZE WHEEZE PHLEGM PHLEGM HEAVY FREAKING QUOTES* "adults" in this country, but no, apparently not.  Us youngin's can do what you did, but better, cheaper, faster, and at a fraction of the cost, while drunk, outdoors and part time.I know, I know, you weren't able to enjoy this during your 40 years of work experience, and therefore, illogically, and quite vindictively of you, you think I and every other successive generation should suffer your same shitty fate, but, again, technology has allowed us to do our work, with quality, and if you would make the HUGE jump of faith to assume that I am an adult and can get my work done, regardless of how you THINK it should be done, then we're all going to get along much better.But wait, now that I think about it.  In order to work for you, I have to do all the same shit you did for the past 40 years.  Kiss ass, brown nose, buck for promotion, "put in my dues."  Hmmm....that seems to inefficient, corrupt, nepositist, cronyistic, and well...stupid.You know what.  I think instead, I'm just going to go and start my own business and market it through the internet.  I don't need to go to college because your academian bretheren are charging too much, and well, they wouldn't teach me anything practical anyway.  Certainly not with all those prerequisite classes and fees and bloated tuition classes all steeped in leftist indoctrination.No, I think I have a much simpler idea and business model.  I have a skill/product, I will market that skill/product over the internet, I will get paid over the internet, and my clients will pay me.  And you know something, here's the real crazy bit.  They won't carehow the work gets donewhere the work gets doneor what I was doing when the work gets done because  (and this is the shocker)the work got done.I know RIGHT?I mean, you boomers just "KNOW" unless you see people working, then they aren't working, right?  I mean, you can't trust any generation other than yourselves to get shit done, right?  Why take advantage of the internet to lower costs like eliminating rent and corporate office buildings and leases while people work from home because you need to have control over those good for nothing "loafers" who insist on working from home.  I mean micro-managing and never delegating is the GREATEST way to ensure profitability, robust growth, higher employment, and prosperity for all, right?You enjoy your visitless-nursing homes and the well-deserved reputation as the generation that destroyed the US. I'm going to enjoy my new office and I'm going to enjoy the decline.  
The Single Father Deficit Crisis 
I hadn't been up more than 40 minutes before I was already pelted with another piece of leftist-religious propaganda telling me I should man up and start dating single mothers.After the initial rage and anger subdued, however, I had a clear and intriguing thought:"Why am I, a childless bachelor who didn't torpedo his life with an unwanted child, constantly asked, nearly commanded, to date and court single moms?  Why are bachelors in general even a part of this?  Shouldn't there be just as many single dads to go and date these single moms???  Why don't they go date themselves and leave us childless people alone?"So my brain did some thinking in the shower.What if there was a shortage of single dads?  What if there were more single mothers than there were single fathers, thereby necessitating us childless bachelors who didn't screw up our lives go in and sop up the surplus supply of single moms.It's certainly possible because a man can impregnate multiple women.  Say a real Casanova, who's a little lax on the use of birth control knocks up three women.  In this case you have ONE father, but THREE mothers, two of which at minimum have to be single mothers.  However, it is also possible for there to be more fathers than there are mothers.  A woman can have multiple children with multiple men resulting in a shortage of single moms.  The question then becomes which scenario is more likely.Based on the OK Cupid study (where women rated 80% of men unattractive) it suggests a classical 80/20 scenario where 20% of the men are making off with 80% of the women.  You also throw in the natural tendency for women to trade up, it becomes more likely a scenario where you have fewer men knocking up more women, than more women getting impregnated by fewer men.Then I realized something as stoking the morning fire."Hey!  I'm an economist!  And there's the Census Bureau!  Why don't I just look up how many fathers there are in the country and how many mothers there are in the country and that will prove whether or not there is a surplus or deficit of fathers."And shucks howdy, what do you know.There are only 70.1 million fathers in the USWhile there are 85.4 million mothers.This means (optimistically assuming all fathers are married, which they're not) there's at least a surplus of 15 million single mothers.Now, in all intellectual honesty, some of this can be chalked up to men dying before women.  In other words grandpa kicks off and grandma is still alive, but grandma is not looking for a new man to save her.  I tried to find data at the Census Bureau that would address age, but their data tables do not delve into that level of detail.  Regardless, I think it is such a deficit that it can be safely assumed (until somebody wishes to do the research to prove otherwise) there are millions more single mothers looking to date than there are single fathers available because of the "Casanova Effect" (or whatever you want to call it). In truth, this should be insulting to most bachelors who kept their nose clean.  It means you have some of these women doing the 80/20 thing, thinking only 20% of men are good looking enough to sleep with, while the remaining 80% of you schmoes are not worth it.... That is until they get pregnant and then need you single, childless, non-screwed up "schmoes" to bail them out.The truth is you already are financially bailing them out.  In collecting things like WIC, EBT, and scores of other forms of government aid, not to mention the entire public school system, these women disproportionately force you to pay higher taxes for children that aren't even yours.  You needn't pay double by giving them your company, affection and attention.   
Conservative Talk Radio's Legacy Problem 
I personally have absolutely no problems helping out a fellow blogger or rookie podcaster.  None whatsoever.  Kid comes up says, "hey can you put me on your blogroll," long as the kid is writing regularly, sure, why not?  Give the kid a shot.And the reason why I do this is simple:Why wouldn't you?Why wouldn't you want to help out your fellow man or woman?  If you have the choice between helping improve the life of a person and not, and there really is no expense or cost to you, then the answer should be obvious - you help that person out.So you could imagine my frustration when, back several years ago I was trying to "break through" by getting radio show hosts to consider my work.  Provide a link.  Maybe talk about my very timely and relevant book that year.  Anything, an interview, a mention.  Just to get my name out there that "one time," that one "lucky break," that would result in a very Vince Flynn like career.Crickets.  Nothing but crickets.You mail the book to the studio.Never hear back from them again.Send a link to a post that explains everything and would advance the conservative cause.Not a mention.You break a story, giving them a huge edge over their news desk.Nothing.  Now, admittedly I am fully aware a lot of this has to do with logistics.  Rush Limbaugh, Glenn Beck, Sean Hannity, etc., are all so big, they are bombarded with millions of e-mails they cannot possibly respond to.  But that included, there is still a severe lack of effort on their part to search for the "next generation" of conservative talk show hosts, to seek out their successors, to groom, guide, and forge any raw talent in the younger generations.  Have you ever seen them have somebody under 50 sub for them?  Additionally, there is absolutely this club or "cartel" of media types that they constantly recycle and prop up.  I like to call it "The Hannity Cartel."Michelle Malkin wrote something?She's on Hannity.Ann Coulter came out with a new book?She's on Hannity.Hugh Hewitt is speaking somewhere?He's on Hannity.But if Joe Blow, aspiring public speaker, or Jane Doe, superior-but-unknown author writes a great treatise on economics, even if their work is superior, they will NEVER make it into "The Hannity Cartel."They are not interested in hiring the best or finding the best.  They are only interested in protecting their little club.  in other words, despite the capitalist political ideology, they really aren't as interested in finding "the best," as much as they are continuing to propagate their little network or club.But there's a problem.While it is completely within their rights and their prerogative to advance their little club, they're getting old.I was talking to the Lovely Leslie at Temple of Mut who has had some indirect, thrice-removed dealings with Dennis Prager.  She pointed out that though she loves Dennis Prager (and he is actually my second favorite talk show host), he is so old he no longer can even relate to younger people.  I hadn't thought about that because I'm nearly 40 and rather enjoy their older-man talk, but she's right.  And not only is she right about Dennis Prager, she's right about pretty much all of the conservative-talk show league.  Glenn Beck, Rush Limbaugh, Sean Hannity, Hugh Hewitt, Michael Medved, Michael Savage, all of them are roughly 60 years old.  And because they are so old, just like Harley Davidson, they are slowly moving away from any future and younger generations that would provide a future market for conservative talk radio, presenting the industry with a major demographic and legacy issue.For example, while Rush occasionally tells stories about his dating in the 70's and his initial run in with the Klingons feminism, he and Prager and Medved etc. etc., completely MISSED OUT on the Manosphere phenomenon.  I don't recall any of them were on the ball about the education bubble (despite me desperately trying to get copies of "Worthless" in their hands years ago).  And they are awfully soft-spoken about the scourge of single mothers.  All of these topics would have captured a younger audience and further secured their radio shows into the future, but they were too busy beating the same dead horses they've been for years (unlike Tom Leykis who was one of the few older people who got it and capitalized on the aforementioned topics). Sadly, and thankfully, however, all of this discussion is moot.  And I shall tell you why.That good ole "interwebz."Like many other industries, the younger generations, after being forced to go to school for a quarter century just to stand a shot at having a career, have realized how bureaucratic and inefficient various industries have become.  And instead of waiting around, "putting in their dues," "getting a masters,"and "hoping for a break," they've instead bypassed the old-boys network and used the internet to start their own industries.  Musicians are selling their music directly to their fans.  Aspiring radio show hosts are saying, "fuck it, I'm not interning.  I'm just going to start my own podcast."  Suppliers are setting up their own online shops instead of "starting in the mail room."  And more people watch their computer screens than listen to the radio or watch TV.  And the radio industry is no different.Thanks to podcasting a whole new industry has sprung up.  It isn't as big as radio, but it's there.  The Peter Schiffs, the Adam Carolla's, the Stefan Molyneux's, the Tom Leykis's, the Paul Elam's, the Silvio Canto's, even the *ahem* Aaron Clarey's.  This is great because people with talent, people who want to get into the industry, no longer have to wait for permission.  They just "do it."  And not only do they "just do it," they are going to be much more successful as the time they'd have to spend to "make it" in the archaic radio industry is better spent polishing up their own show or "brand."  Ergo, not only is talk radio failing to recruit successors as it protects it's cartel, it's unaware that all the new and future talent is not going to bother with radio.  It's all going to be podcasting.But a "brain drain" from the industry is not what is truly going to spell the demise of conservative talk radio. It will be three qualities and traits of the "podcasting" industry that will spell it's undoing.  First, podcasting is a 100%, pure meritocracy.  There is nothing to stop anybody from picking up a microphone, a laptop and start recording.  This means the TRULY BEST will rise to the stop as they are unimpeded with HR ditzes, mandatory interning to "put their dues in," and micro-managing program directors that ruin the quality of the podcast.  The best will also rise to the top as connections or "networking" or ass-kissing is absolutely unnecessary.Second, people will help you in the podcasting industry.  Glenn Reynolds is a great man because he is that guy who will give you your big break.  KOASDA (Kate over at Small Dead Animals) will also send you an amazing amount of traffic if you write well.  And Roosh at Return of Kings has opened his site to quality writers aspiring to make a living out of it.  In short, NOBODY requires you "jump through a hoop" or "put in your dues."  They want to help you because they are selfless, altruistic and good people.Third, costs.  I'll say it again for the cheap seats - radio towers are expensive.  So are the large buildings and electrical equipment they're attached to.  And so are all those people that are employed in the building.  I'd say the average radio station must cost around $5 million to build, and lord knows what operate each year.  A podcast costs about $500 in equipment and $100 a month for storage...not to mention its reach is GLOBAL while a radio tower maybe has a range of 100 miles.  This is why advertising with Tom Leykis costs a fraction of radio spots, but delivers about 5 times the sales.In short, yes it would have been nice if America's presumed "cheerleaders of freedom" would have taken somebody under their wings, under their tutelage and groomed successors to continue their fight.  It would have been nice if they just would "give a kid a shot."  But the truth is they're not.  They probably won't.  And, ironically, it doesn't matter.  Because the time WILL COME that new and infinitely-more-attuned titans will rise in the podcasting industry, replacing and supplanting their aged counterparts in conservative talk radio.  And while the Aurini's, Schiff's and Corolla's of the world excel in their new industry, the power will be shut off and the "Golden EIB microphone" will have electricity run through it for the very last time. 
"I'm an Idea Guy" 
I couldn't remember if it was a video or a podcast I had done a couple weeks back, but I was mentioning the "idea guy" and precisely just what despicable pieces of vermin these type of people tend to be.  Consequently I received quite a bit of e-mails, comments, and responses from listeners anecdoting about "idea guys" they've ran into in the past and thus I think it's time to expound upon and highlight these individuals.  First understand "idea guys" are really nothing more than lazy bums who want all the glory and benefits of hard work, but don't want to do the hard work themselves.  They just want to sit and pontificate and come up with pretty ideas, but when it comes to turning those ideas into reality, they need other people.  Typically this manifests itself in the form of a jock with a business degree or an MBA who when it comes time to volunteer to take on a task at a meeting they'll excuse themselves saying, "well I'm more of an idea guy."  Bankers also fit this description as they'll "work hard" to provide you the money for your business, but you need to pay them a 7% cut while you do all the real work.  Regardless of what form they take, they NEVER get their hands dirty with IT, engineering, trades, accounting, or anything else that is require to turn an idea into a profitable business.Second, they're egotistical, sometimes even ego-maniacal.  They value themselves more than anybody else and think a different set of rules apply to them.  Therefore, work and toil is beneath them.  They just want to be in charge and benefit from the status of "leader."  I point out Barack Obama not because of my 100% disagreeing with his politics, but because he is the epitome of this.  The man has no real world experience (just look it up, only 1 year in the private sector).  BUT despite his non-existent career and literally achieving nothing in life, he fancied himself so important he wrote TWO memoir books and deemed himself worthy of the presidency of the United States (consequently you can see just how effective "idea guys" are when it comes to actual performance and production).Third, they're arrogant.  They really believe they're that smart.  That nobody else has their "leadership abilities" or insights.  They think the kid programming code or the woman doing accounting can't come up with the ideas themselves, no matter how simple and obvious those ideas are.  Deep down inside I don't think they actually believe this, but their ego and fear of real work conspire to make them think they are smarter than the average bear.  Regardless, these are the type of people who will rely on credentials and not true genius as vindication of their being an "idea guy."  MBA's, "leadership seminars," and all the cacophony of BS business school tripe where they try to make "leadership" a teachable science, when in reality it is only hard work and experience that makes a leader.  Finally, they're thieves.  Because they're so afraid of work, they will do anything to avoid it.  Thus many of these "idea guys" develop incredible political and charming skills that (sadly) lands many of them into positions of power.  This isn't their fault as much as it is the current employment system we have today, but it doesn't change the fact they take the credit for other people's hard work.  Not to say that Steve Jobs was one such guy, but in this Bill Burr clip you get the idea.  In short, you don't want to have anything to do with "idea guys."  Be it work, be it school, be it social.  In work they'll view you like a CIA agent does an "asset" and at minimum try to offload their work on you, or (worse) blame their mistakes on you.  In school they are GUARANTEED to be the person who doesn't do their part in group projects.  And in social life, they are the ones to constantly be late, never bring booze to the party, and will constantly parasite favors off of you, never to be returned in kind.  Thankfully idea guys can easily be avoided because whenever there's real work to be done, and it's time for people to start stepping forward and taking on tasks, they will yell with the decibel-level of Loud Howard, "WELL I'M KIND OF A BIG PICTURE GUY.  AN IDEA GUY MYSELF!"That's when you punch him right in the face and tell him to start programming code.  
When Podcasters Replaced Pastors 
An interesting epiphany hit me. Not when I was out hiking 13,000 foot peaks in Wyoming.Not when I was on my thrice weekly run.But rather when on the treadmill as this vile of a winter that refuses to end:Podcasters are the new pastors.I say this not for my own egotistical self, but rather an observation whilst listening an episode of Stefan Molyneux's podcast.  He was reviewing the numbers and 2013 was by far his best year.  Over 50 million downloads, the "Truth About" series helping with that, and enough income to at least keep the lights on.  This all without a building to preach in, housing, or a congregation all provided by the parish.  It was with a microphone, a computer, some bandwidth, and some servers Stefan (and his adjutant) Michael were able to deliver, in just one year, more "sermons" in the form of podcasts to more listeners' ears in a week than your average pastor will deliver in his lifetime.  Driving this naturally is technology.  And of course people would rightly point out this could have been said about radio hosts.  However podcasters pose a greater threat to pastors than radio show hosts in that they don't need to cover the overheard of a radio station and a radio tower.  Ergo, they can focus on special niches in life and attract smaller, but very loyal audiences, instead of aiming for a mass, boring, indifferentiated market share.The result is a plethora of podcasts and shows that address every imaginable topic.  Aurini and Molyneux cover philosophy.  I have my own economics/sociological/courting podcast.  Ed has his political podcast.  Kerry Lutz his precious metals podcast.  FTM their survival podcast.  Alton Brown his...well..."I'm Alton Brown and everything I touch turns gold because I'm that freaking cool of a guy" podcast.  Every imaginable facet of life has a podcast and people can now tune into very specific and precise shows leaving the mass-market-appealing radio shows behind.But the area podcasters give pastors a run for their money is philosophy and real-world advice.  And this is where podcasters are not so much putting pastors out of business, but eating their lunch.Understand with philosophy, life advice, financial consulting, dating, etc., podcasters are serving a horrendously underserved market of (primarily) youngerish people (45 and younger) who have been misled purposely or unintentionally by all instititutions and entities in society.  Revisiting much trampled ground before - courting, careers, dating, health, politics, government, etc., etc., - nearly every one 45 and under have been lied to about the real world.  Consequently they very much are lost sheep and are in desperate need of being deprogrammed from the brainwashing they received and then being informed about how the actual real world works.However, whereas this would be the domain of pastors and clergy members, they fail miserably addressing these social problems because they have their hands tied behind their back.Tied by what?Religion.Whether you are a rabbi, a priest, an imam, or a pastor, you are relegated to to dispensing advice through the lens of the Torah, Koran, or Bible.  You are also further regulated by tradition where all of your sermons must be religious.  Ergo, the best a man of the cloth can do is lecture around 500 people once a week, pulling a lesson from their religious tomes that has a real life world application.  This of course ONLY AFTER you waste 25 minutes on the front and 25 minutes on the back of the sermon doing calisthenics, kneeling, praying, singing, and saying, "the lord be with you" to some stranger to your right.  And heaven help you if there's a baptism or communion. For 2 hours of attendance, you maybe get 15 minutes of sermon, 2 minutes of which is actually practical advice.But not with podcasts.With podcasts it's direct, topic specific, and immediately practical to your life.  There's no interruptions with pointless 3,000 year old traditions and chanting.  It's a fraction of the cost of tithing (because all your good religious people tithe, right?  RIGHT?).  And it can be listened to anywhere.Now, will the advent of podcasting flatten the churches, raze the synagogues, and destroy the mosques?  Well, one can hope, er...ummm...no.  As long as there are people there will always be religion.  However, what will happen is philosophy, advice, leadership, economics, political, and other "life guiding" sorts of podcasters will become the effective new pastors.  Not because they set out to do so, but because they are actually doing the jobs of what pastors were originally supposed to be doing, but can't because of the religious handicap.  You throw in technology and the traditional "business model" of a church (with physical buildings, organs, staff, etc.) is about as obsolete as a radio station.  And if there's any doubt, realize even a lousy, curse-laden podcast like mine, has about 2.5 times the weekly "attendance" than the average Wisconsin Synod Lutheran pastor.  Then again, it's pretty hard not to beat those sermons.  
Once Lost a Student Can Never Be Recovered 
Permit me to explain a non-state-teacher's-union-leftist-education-degree-approved real world, private sector observation about education:Once I lost interest in school, I never gained it back.  And that wasn't just me, but what I'd estimate to be about 95% of boys and about 50% of girls.Once we lost an interest in school, it was damn well near impossible to ever get us excited or interested about it again.Notice I say "school" and not "education," because what goes on in the public schools really isn't education but baby sitting, indoctrination and keeping talentless people employed as they hide behind the guise of children.  But regardless of the political machinations of what the public schools really are, it is sad because it wasn't until I was about 35 did I take an interest in education or things like reading.  School was a chore, all the way from my second day of kindergarten to my last day of college.  17 years of what was no less than a mental prison for an industry that managed to siphon off around $250,000 from me and my parents when it was all said and done.  So when it was all said and done you basically had a boy sitting, nodding his head, sometimes barely staying awake, just to jump through one ass big hoop while I learned little to nothing along the way (except a seething hatred of teachers).  And that is the true tragedy of education today.  Because just imagine if you, me, and every other boy and girl out there was not forced to go to this mental prison, but were rather invigorated, excited, and MENTALLY ENGAGED their entire K-college education?  17 years of actually looking forward to school like you do today reading a good book or studying something on teh interwebz.  17 years of not just stimulating your mind, but pushing it towards new horizons, exercising it to take on and understand new concepts.  We'd have a country full of creative and literal geniuses and nowhere near the financial problems we have today.Sadly they key vital ingredient to getting students excited about school and mentally engaged is missing - interesting, exciting, and passionate teachers.Oh, I know, I know.  Little Suzy McSuburbaniteprincess at the age of 17 declares her education major because she's "passionate" about education and wants to change "children's lives."  The truth, however, is borne out in the classrooms.BoringIncapableUninspiring StupidPoliticized Adult childrenposing as "educators," inspiring excitement in their students about as much as Whoopi Goldberg inspires an erection.This is the real problem - a lack of inspiring teachers. Not to brag, but when I taught (be it economics, finance, or ballroom dancing) I made damn sure my students were intellectually entertained and engaged.  I had students screaming in a mock-stock market exchange.  Curmudgeony old men who came to dance class kicking and screaming, dipping their wives an hour later.  And once performed an economics sermon for my class from the top of my 1985 Cutlass Supreme about the evils of brand new cars.  This isn't because I'm a genius or have some kind of natural gift for teaching, I just remembered how boring it was sitting in school and couldn't dare to punish hundreds of students I had nothing personally against.  Ergo, I took the time to think my class through, think the lesson plans through and create an EXPERIENCE that my students would enjoy and learn along the way.Sadly, that's too much to ask of people who belie their laziness when declaring education majors.The truth is that if we really cared about the children, if we really wanted them to get an education, we'd pretty much fire all the teachers, get rid of something as stupid as an a "Degree in Education," and hire people with real world experience, who also have the capacity for empathy of their students.  People who just don't mouth the words "I care about the children" as they go and protest Scott Walker, but people who actually DO CARE about the children, enough to ensure those children are never bored, intellectually disengaged, or disincentived to pay attention.  People with real world experience that enables them to directly tie in what's on the board to the real world and explain to the students' brains why it's pertinent to their lives, not a 23 year old child spouting off leftist talking points about global warming.Of course this is laughably impossible in today's political climate.  The sheeple believe there's no such thing as too much money for education.  And the vile thieves of the democrat party posing as teachers are masters at extracting nearly a trillion a year from these rubes in exchange for the shittiest education in all of Western Civilization.  Worse still, they've now had nearly 50 years brainwashing "educating" three generations to think a certain way, protect the hive, and vote socialist.All I ask is that society wake up and at least admit that nobody really enjoys school and the primary reason why is we have arguably society's worst and most incompetent people posing as "teachers." 
College Is Not a Means Unto Itself 
A realization I had about a month ago was that children, most of their parents, and a scarily high percentage of the rest of society view college not as a tool or a way to improve one's career, but rather a means unto itself.  That college itself is the goal and whether anything comes after that is irrelevant.If this isn't bad enough, I fear it's gotten much worse.  For while there's no limit to the "you can't put a price on education" type rationalization coming from liberal arts majors, any time I've tried to talk reason, sense, logic, foresight and math into young kids today (and many of their parents) about the risks of majoring in a worthless subject the response is typically vehement if not violent.This leads me to believe that media, the education system, government, and (yes) parents have convinced children college is not only meritorious unto itself, but an entitlement, a life-purpose, a life-dream and a birthright.  Every child/student/young person DESERVES an college education and that education is the most important thing in their lives.And that's not hyperbole or rhetoric.  It's true.Consider your own personal experience when you were about to attend college.  20 years ago in my case I was led to believe that college was the solution to all of my problems.  That when I got to this magical world called "college:"Everybody would be more matureGirls would throw themselves at meI'd go to great parties and make great friends My degree would guarantee me a job My then 18 year streak of poverty and lower-middle income existence would finally be overNo doubt your expectations of college were equally bullshitty.But also go back to when you were 17 and ask yourself what else did you have to look forward to in life?  What else was there in life?  You were just as ecstatic to go to college as your entire educational life up until that point was to make it to the Holy Land of College.Now imagine today's kids, with thrice the amount of ass-kissing, "you can do anything-ism," "you're all winners" and the elimination of trophies, GPA's, valedictorians, and any other form of competition and you can see how college is all they have in life.  And anytime anybody dares to critique their dreams or deliver a dose of reality, their rabid reaction belies their insane obsession with college.Sadly, no matter how psychotically and irrationally wedded to college they are, does not mean we don't at least owe it to society to point out the truth.  And scream and pout and stammer their little feet all they might, somebody has got to stand up and point out the obvious:College is NOT a means unto itselfCollege is NOT meritorious unto itselfYou CAN put a price on educationAnd that price is when your investment in time and money does not result in more of the same in returnCollege is a TOOL to advance your career first and foremost.  And the second you treat it as anything other, especially a luxury good or an entitlement, you only serve to destroy the 70% of your life you have yet to live post-college. Naturally I speak to the choir here on this blog.  I don't think anybody here is going to disagree that with tuition running at $70,000 you should demand a fiscal return on your investment.  But the sad truth is this message will fall on deaf ears because those who so desperately need this lesson are not sane.  They are fanatics.  They are junkies.  They are as zealous as ISIS is to Islam as they are to college.  And nothing will get the way of achieving their dream.To that end there is not much left to do than what we're already doing.  Mocking people who major in the puppetry.  Laughing at people who are $120,000 in debt with women's studies degrees.  Telling the MA in Music that yes, we would indeed very much like fries with that.  And in short, living better lives than them.  But I hope that in your own realm, within your own sphere of influence, that there are some youth or some friends or some family members who are at least receptive to reality, sanity, and math.  That they haven't been fully duped and brainwashed into thinking their lives are so worthless a "college degree" is the best thing they can achieve.  That the college degree is tool to help them achieve greatness, and often and optional tool at that.  And if you can get them not to destroy their futures like the College ISIS Fanatics then you've done a world of good in genuinely saving some lives.  
What the Beer and Radio Industries Portend to Talk Radio 
While driving the crotch rocket from Buffalo, Wyoming to Phoenix, Arizona and back, I decided to go down one side of the Rockies and up the other on the return trip.  However, it was without fail that as I would enter a small Colorado town the gas station attendant or hotel concierge would inform me, immediately, about the new "brew pub" that had just opened and how I had to check it out.  Not being a fan of beer, I usually eschewed these pubs, but the sheer number of them compelled me to think about them from an economics standpoint, especially whilst navigating the various mountain passes and switchbacks.My original thought was stained by my previous experience in banking where desperate middle aged men would mortgage their house, close out their 401k, and then approach us for more money to finance their mid-life-crisis bar.  And so I thought this was just the latest incarnation where a new generation of dude-bros would start a brew pub and within a year file for bankruptcy.It didn't happen.Matter of fact, quite the opposite has happened.  Not only have thousands of micro-brew pubs opened up, but they make better, higher quality beer than the swill being mass-produced by Busch, Budweiser, Miller, etc.  Add to that fact they usually attach a bar to their brewing operations and an element of community and "walking to the neighborhood pub" ensues, and paying the extra $1 for a pint of special brew makes it impossible for the large producers to compete.However, it is not only the beer industry that this "specialization" is happening.  Enter in our beloved internet.  Specifically radio.It is no secret that I have a general disdain for the radio industry.  It is a cutthroat industry I "fell into," but was naive about.  Ergo, thinking it may had been my calling, I made changes in my life and career to pursue it, only to have the format of my station change to (my favorite) "sports talk radio" 5 months into my gig.However, like publishing or the music industry, the radio industry and the elitists that controlled it are getting spanked, primarily through podcasts.  Radio stations are EXPENSIVE things to maintain.  Not only do you have radio towers and insane electric bills, but you have sales staff, HR, lawyers, producers, secretaries, etc.  And the free market being what it is, owners are driven to streamline their operations, cutting expenses as much as possible.  This resulted in a phenomenon similar to "Big Beer" - a mass produced product that is sold nationally.  However, instead of a can of "Bud Light" or "Budweiser," radio stations nationally syndicated Sean Hannity, Rush Limbaugh, Dennis Prager, and Michael Medved.Unfortunately, for both radio stations and listeners, this meant (like beer) talk radio hosts had to play to the largest common denominator.  This meant bland, not-to-risque, polite talk shows.  Not that there's anything wrong with that, but it did take away the Mischke's, Savages, and other eccentric talk show hosts that had smaller, but much loyal followings.However, some ironic and incredible timing occurred.  While radio stations were laying off local talent in the drive for leveraging national syndication, the cost of bandwidth and storage on the internet was plummeting.  And it was no longer text or nudie pics of your girlfriend that could be sent over teh interwebz, but audio and video.  Early adapters capitalized on this.  Chris Krok (a fellow radio show host who enjoyed an equally brief radio career in Minneapolis) I remember getting canceled in 2006.  He said he was going to work on some "Blogtalk" project, of which I more or less dismissed, borderline scoffed.  However, a couple years later, the feasibility and (thus) threat podcasts presented to talk radio became apparent.  And it's the exact same threats that specialized brews present to "big beer."Today, I rarely listen to Rush Limbaugh, and maybe tune into Garage Logic.  Four years ago I would easily spend 3 hours a day listening, now, not more than 5 minutes.  The reason is that I can download podcasts, listen to them at ANYTIME, AND (this is the real threat)LISTEN TO A SHOW THAT IS VERY SPECIALIZED IN MY INTERESTS.Yes, Sean Hannity, I got it - "Republicans Good.  Democrats Bad!"But have you ever done a deep analysis on Tribalism and its intellectual ramifications like Stefan Molyneux?Yes, Joe Soucheray, I got it.  What is the mystery?  Who are the mysterians?But the mystery was solved nearly 6 years ago by a vlogger/podcaster.And yes, Michael Medved, got it.  "Losertarians."  Ho ho ho.  That's funny.You'll forgive me while I listen to women explore and pioneer a completely different and new world called the Manosphere.  Slightly more intellectual stimulation.The truth is that talk radio was already dying without the internet.  And I mean that literally - the hosts are old and are going to be looking at death in the face in 20 years. Rush Limbaugh is over 60, Dennis Prager in his 50's, and Joe Soucheray is pushing 80 (just kidding).  But who is being groomed to replace them?The answer is nobody.Which is fine.  Like most industries in America today, the youth have found it easier to go their own way, using the internet to pursue success, instead of asking for permission through their aged and obsoleted bosses.  And while there may not be another manufactured "block buster star" like Rush Limbaugh or Sean Hannity, there will be hundreds of much smaller, but infinitely more interesting and specialized "micro-talk-show-celebrities."  And thank god, because micro-brewed beer is an infinitely better product than Miller. 
The Three "Shitties" of Public Schools 
Minneapolis Public Schools had a cute outright lie they advertised on KBEM FM 88.5 (a radio station they run, because we all know public schools should be running radio stations).It went something like"Good Teachers,Great KidsGreat Schools."I had to laugh because I knew the opposite was quite true.  Minneapolis had theshittiest teachersthe shittiest kids andthe shittiest schools.But it made me think.  Precisely what are the ingredients that go into making a school shitty, good, or even great?  And I think the Minneapolis Public Schools were very close when it came to ingredients, they just had very poor quality ingredients to throw into the pot.So I developed a new and revised formula for the Minneapolis Public Schools with one caveat.  The formula is:Parents+ Teachers+ Children= SchoolsAnd the caveat is that only two of the three ingredients have to be shitty in order for the whole school to be shitty.For example you can have great kids, but horrible parents and horrible teachers.  Doesn't matter how great the kid does, his parents are losers, his teachers are losers and the kid is likely condemned to failure.Another combination, shitty teachers, shitty children, but great teachers.  Much as I loathe teachers I do know there's a handful of them out there who truly do care about education and are indeed great teachers.  Unfortunately, that's rendered moot when you have shitty students and equally shitty parents who believe their children can do no wrong (though that is more of a trait of elitist suburban schools, and not the inner city).  Regardless, the kid is condemned to failure.And then there's shitty teachers and shitty students.  The parents could have the greatest intentions in the world, but unfortunately the state now effectively raises your children from 5 years old on.  You are merely to feed, clothe, and house them until they can be returned to the state indoctrination facility for an amount of time that nearly quadruples the amount of time you get with your own flesh and blood.  Again, failed school.We can go on, but the point is as the moral decay of America has progressed and higher and higher percentage of these three pillars are being corrupted, increasingly becoming "shittier," a higher and higher percentage of our schools are becoming "shitty."  And it doesn't matter how much money we throw at them, it's going to require personal resolve, character and dedication to excellence of ALL THREE GROUPS to improve public education.Until that time you can expect increasing amounts of:Single/incompetent/absentee/outsourcing parentsMisbehaving children, andPoorer quality teachersall resulting in the laughing stock that has become public education.  And it will only be a joke until these poor kids are dumped out into the real world.

But hey, at least you didn't have to raise your own kidsAnd at least you got summers off.And at least you got your GED.  
Is Bond Having Less Sex? 
I was having a late night dinner with my buddy Richard and the GF.  We were discussing Bond films and the upcoming release "Spectre."  This then naturally delved into observations of the various Bonds over time, but when I said,"I hope he gets laid this time!"Richard and the GF looked at me quizzically...and then thought about it...and then said, "Ooooohhh yeeeaaaah!  You are right!"Which I was.  For if you think about it Daniel Craig is the least-laid James Bond out there.  The movies do blur together (especially the last three), but I was under the distinct impression he didn't get laid in the first two (Casino Royale and Quantum of Solace) and only got laid in the last James Bond (Skyfall).However, vague recollections amongst a handful of movies that blur together does not empirical data make.  And so, ever so the vigilant economist, poor ole Cappy took it upon himself to study not only how many women each Bond slept with in each movie, but how many lays there were in total and averages for all the Bonds.

 
And shucks howdy, look at that, the ole Captain was right.  Daniel Craig is the least laid Bond both in terms of number of women frequency in sex.  He averages only 1.7 women per movie and only 2 lays per movie (he'd only have 1 and 1.5 respectively if it weren't for Skyfall making him practically a virgin).However, some other statistics of note.Roger Moore (unsurprisingly) holds the record for most amount of lays (8) and ties with Sean Connery for most number of women (4).George Lazenby (named "That Other Guy" because I couldn't remember his name) is the all-time stud of the James Bond actors, luckily starring in the one film that would give him the highest average in both categories.And if Daniel Craig is even going to finish with an average score, the screenwriters better serve him up a record-breaking 5 women and 9 lays in the next two movies.Keep a notch count for the guy when Spectre comes out this fall. 
Why I No Longer Trust Academic Studies 
Arguably the single largest concern I have about the economics "profession" is that the data we use to analyze and study economies of the past has been corrupted and tainted by political forces.  Not only because this means there are nefarious political forces at work, more than happy to stunt the economic growth of a nation for their own gains, but because without REAL and ACCURATE data we will be unable to achieve the ultimate goal of economics - unlimited wealth and riches for everyone.This has not only given rise to sites such as "Shadow Stats," but has also made me question the data I'm using in my own research.Can I trust the FRED database?Do I dare trust the figures posted by the BEA?Has Obama's latest affirmative action hire corrupted the BLS data?It makes me question the economics profession as a whole as it becomes increasingly obvious the profession is failing to increase economic growth, not to mention blatantly whoring themselves out to socialist politicians.The problem, however, is one of a submarine without a sonar.  How exactly do you analyze and research economics, society, politics, government, etc., without reliable data?  And the truth is you have to go back to logic, reason, and common sense because you have nothing else to go on.But this brings about a problem on its own.  Especially if you are arguing against leftists when it comes to wealth redistribution and freedom.  For while you are using reason, logic, and common sense, the left has a virtual monopoly on "academic research," and all the "empirical" data that comes with it.  This allows them to simply point to bogus "studies" that "show" your wrong, when the most basic of common sense knows you're right.To reconcile this I do two things.  One, I still do empirical research.  What I've found is that there are so many sources of economic data out there that they can't all be manipulated to serve (and consequently hide) a political agenda.Can they tweak GDP?  Sure.Can they revise the methodology of unemployment?  Of course.Can they fabricate lower inflation figures?  Yes. But then they also measure labor force participation, the DOE measures electrical consumption, and I can see the stock markets inflating (showing you there IS inflation in this economy) using those as proxy and alternative economic measures to know the "official ones" don't paint the most accurate picture.  In other words, if you dig deep enough you can still find the truth.Two, I simply dismiss any research coming out of academia.Of course, this seems the coward's and hypocrite's way out, but academia has been so corrupted it's laughable to think THEY provide real, accurate, and truthful data.  All one has to do is step back, wipe their eyes clean and look at what academia has become and ask what is more likely.First, academia is more biased to the left than journalism.  It is chock full of society's lazy and ego-addicted adult children.  This means they can't just collect a government check, but need some kind of "faux career" where they play "make believe intelligent adult" and thus become professors, diversity counselors, chancellors, and other worthless persons.  However, since they avoid any type of real work, they need to constantly validate their existence in order to get a check.  And since the private sector insists on getting something of value in return for its money, they CONSISTENTLY vote for state intervention, forcing the tax payers to finance their entirely fraudulent and unnecessary industry.You may find my description of them a bit harsh, but there is NO doubt they are biased and have a huge incentive to fabricate data to show a mandate for an increased state.Second, related to the first, have you ever seen an academic study that concludes there should be LESS government involvement?  Have you ever seen a study that shows we should LOWER taxes?  Again, step back, look, and think.  Isn't it ODD their solution to EVERYTHING is "more government money?"  The pure lack of (ahem) "diversity" in their recommendations should prove academics and their studies are worthless.Third, a conflict of interest.Since many of these "academics" aim to solve the world's social problems, what happens when those social problems are resolved?The answer - they lose their jobs.Ergo, just like charities, their real goal is NOT to ever solve the problem, but stretch it out, propagandize it, and demand ever more resources to TREAT it.This is why global warming is now "climate change."This is why the bold faced lie of "the wage gap" persists.Because "environmental science majors" and "women studies professors" dare never to admit they've solved the problem because then they'd have to grow up, become adults, and get jobs in the real world.And final, the childish insanity that academia and academics have become.You can't go a week without some veritable psychopath who some how got a professorship advocating the most insane of things.  Calling for the death of white males.  Claiming everything is rape.  Or (typically Berkeley) offering the most retarded of classes ever.  Academia is NOT the valid institution it once was back in the 1950's, but an insane asylum for society's spoiled and psychotic adult children who offer nothing of value or worth to society.Of course, me calling professors and academians names doesn't make it so.  I could be wrong after all, and they could all be 100% on the up and up.  100% honest researchers with the utmost of integrity, and I'm just an angry ideologue who doesn't like the fact their (COUGH COUGH) "empirical" research proves my world view wrong.Well, enter in this little gem.  Apparently, in an attempt to test the validity of psychological studies, researchers (real ones) were only able to replicate the same result of only ONE THIRD the original studies.  And this suggests proves what I've been saying all along, confirming my suspicions.The social sciences, especially in academia, is bunk.It's BS.It's all a lie and not to be trusted.Perhaps, at some point in time in the past these studies were valid.  Perhaps back in those "hated" 40's you could trust your professor.  But given the circumstantial evidence of childish insanity at our universities, their outright and total leftist bias, not to mention the study above, today academia and the professors that populate them areliarscharlatainsthievesideologuesandparasiteson society.You want society to advance?  A really good first step would be to eliminate all taxpayer financing and funding of higher education.  But right now let's just settle on not believing one "study" let alone word that is ever uttered out of the mouths of these worthless academians.












THE END
















