














HarperCollins PublishersWesterhill RoadBishopbriggsGlasgowG64 2QTGreat Britain
First Edition 2007
Reprint 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
© HarperCollins Publishers 2007
All rights reserved under International and Pan-American Copyright Conventions. By payment of the required fees, you have been granted the non-exclusive, non-transferable right to access and read the text of this e-book on screen. No part of this text may be reproduced, transmitted, downloaded, decompiled, reverse engineered, or stored in or introduced into any information storage and retrieval system, in any form or by any means, whether electronic or mechanical, now known or hereinafter invented, without the express written permission of HarperCollins.
EPUB Edition © June 2011 ISBN 978-0-00-744455-7
Collins® and Bank of English® are registered trademarks of HarperCollins Publishers Limited
www.collins.co.uk
A catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library
Typeset by Wordcraft, Glasgow
Printed in Italy by Rotolito Lombarda S.p.A.
Acknowledgements
We would like to thank those authors and publishers who kindly gave permission for copyright material to be used in the Collins Word Web.We would also like to thank Times Newspapers Ltd for providing valuable data.
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or otherwise, without the prior permission of the publisher. This book is sold subject to the conditions that it shall not, by way of trade or otherwise, be lent, re-sold, hired out or otherwise circulated without the publisher's prior consent in any form of binding or cover other than that in which it is published and without a similar condition including this condition being imposed on the subsequent purchaser.
Entered words that we have reason to believe constitute trademarks have been designated as such. However, neither the presence nor absence of such designation should be regarded as affecting the legal status of any trademark.
MANAGING EDITORMaree Airlie
PROJECT CO-ORDINATORGaëlle Amiot-Cadey
CONTRIBUTORSMichela ClariDaphne Day









William Collins' dream of knowledge for all began with the publication of his first book in 1819. A self-educated mill worker, he not only enriched millions of lives, but also founded a flourishing publishing house. Today, staying true to this spirit, Collins books are packed with inspiration, innovation, and practical expertise. They place you at the centre of a world of possibility and give you exactly what you need to explore it.
Language is the key to this exploration, and at the heart of Collins Dictionaries is language as it is really used. New words, phrases, and meanings spring up every day, and all of them are captured and analysed by the Collins Word Web. Constantly updated, and with over 2.5 billion entries, this living language resource is unique to our dictionaries.
Words are tools for life. And a Collins Dictionary makes them work for you.
Collins. Do more.









Contents
Introduction
What is it?
Why do you need it?
How is it structured?
How does it work?
Why choose Collins Easy Learning Italian Conversation?
The Collins Easy Learning range
Italian pronunciation
Units
Small talkthe language of social interaction
Getting theretravelling around
Home from homeorganizing your accommodation
Wining and diningeating out
Hitting the towngoing out and socializing
Museums, monuments and much moreseeing the sights
Retail therapydoing some shopping
Service with a smiledealing with various services
Ouch!looking after your health
Help!coping with different problems
Getting in touchmaking calls, sending emails and letters
Time, numbers, dateeverything you need to know
In summary...a quick reference guide
One-stop phrase shopthe phrases you need for everyday conversation
Grammar
Verb tables
Vocabulary builder








Introduction
What is it?
Collins Easy Learning Italian Conversation is a completely new type of book for learners of Italian of all ages. It will increase your confidence in holding a conversation in Italian, whether you are just starting to learn Italian, studying at school or at an evening class, or brushing up your language skills. You may be going on holiday or planning to go travelling in Italy, go there on business, or live there. Whatever your situation, you'll want to be able to communicate effectively and naturally in Italian.
Why do you need it?
Becoming proficient in a foreign language means being able to use and understand a number of different aspects - vocabulary, grammar, pronunciation, and so on. However, it takes a while to be able to put all these elements together and be sure that what you are saying sounds like natural Italian. The Easy Learning Italian Conversation has been carefully designed to bring these aspects together and give you language structures which you can use in conversation with confidence, knowing that you will be speaking Italian as spoken by Italian speakers.
How is it structured?
Collins Easy Learning Italian Conversation is made up of 12 units, each illustrating the language used in a particular situation, followed by a summary which brings together the key language covered throughout the units. You'll also find the One-stop phrase shop - a unit which contains all the important expressions and turns of phrase that help you to sound more natural in Italian.
A short grammar and verbs supplement gives you additional language support, ensuring that you have everything at your fingertips. Finally, the English-Italian glossary covers the most important vocabulary you may need to personalize your conversation.
4 • In English translations, You = polite form, you = informal form, you = plural form

How does it work?
Language allows us to express ourselves and interact with others. In any given situation, we perform different language tasks, such as asking for information, agreeing and disagreeing, complaining, making suggestions and so forth. To do this, we use linguistic structures (How...?, When...?, Could I...?, I'd like... and so on) which can be used in a variety of contexts. Each unit in Collins Easy Learning Italian Conversation gives you all the phrases you might need in a given situation, grouped by structure. English headings help you navigate through the structures to enable you to find what you want quickly and easily. Throughout the units, there are also tips headed Buono a sapersi! which highlight important differences in the way English and Italian work.
A conversation, by definition, is a two-way process. It is as important to understand what is being said to you as it is to be able to respond. At the end of each unit, there is a section headed Listen out for. Each of these sections gives you a variety of the most typical phrases which you might hear in a given situation. Becoming familiar with these will allow you to have a successful conversation with a Italian speaker. For further help with pronunciation, a free download with all the important structures recorded is available on www.collinslanguage.com/easyconversation.
Communicating effectively in Italian isn't just about linguistic competence - it's also about cultural knowledge. For you to feel confident in Italy, it is also useful to know more about Italian culture and lifestyle. At the end of each unit, the Lifestyle Tips will give you the information you need to gain a deeper insight into the language, the country and its people.
Why choose Collins Easy Learning Italian Conversation?
• easy to use all the key language structures you need to give you the confidence to hold a conversation in natural Italian
• easy to read a clear, modern layout which allows you to find what you need quickly and easily
• easy to understand the language you may hear from Italian speakers in a given situation
• easy to speak free audio download available on www.collinslanguage.com/easyconversation
The Collins Easy Learning range
The Collins Easy Learning Italian Conversation is the latest addition to the best-selling Collins Easy Learning range, which includes the highly acclaimed Collins Easy Learning Italian Dictionary. Collins Easy Learning Italian Grammar and Collins Easy Learning Italian Verbs support you with all your grammatical needs. The Collins Easy Learning series is the ideal language reference range to help you learn Italian.
Italian pronunciation
Italian pronunciation is not very difficult. Words are written pretty much as they sound, so when you see a word written down you can generally pronounce it with no problem, and when you hear a new word you know immediately how to spell it. There are no sounds in Italian that are very different from English. Below we give some tips to help you speak natural-sounding Italian.
Italian vowels
In English, vowels we don't emphasize often sound like "uh", so the e in mother and the a in central sound just the same. Sometimes vowels don't get pronounced at all, as is the case with the first e in interesting. In Italian this never happens. Italian vowels are always clearly pronounced.
Italian vowels are generally pronounced as follows:


a
- like the a in apple


e
- like the e in set


i
- like the ee in sheep


o
- like the o in orange


u
- like the oo in soon


Italian consonants
Most Italian consonants are pronounced the same as English ones, except that double consonants are two distinct sounds, so that the tt in tutto is pronounced as in hat trick and not as in fitted.
The following are Italian consonants that differ from English:


c
- before e and i is pronounced tch (cento, cinema, cioccolato)


ch
- is pronounced like k in kettle (chiesa, chilometro)


g
- before e and i is pronounced like j in jet (gelato, gennaio, giorno, giacca)


gh
- is pronounced like g in get (ghiaccio, laghi)


gl
- before i is normally pronounced like ll in million (meglio, migliaio)


gn
- is pronounced like the ny in canyon (gnocchi, cognome)


sc
- before e and i is pronounced sh (scena, scendere, lasciare, scienza)


z
- is pronounced ds or ts (zucchini, zucchero, mezzo, zia)


Which syllable to emphasize
To make your Italian sound more fluent and natural you need to stress the right syllable. Here are some guidelines:
• Two-syllable words always stress the first syllable, unless the final vowel has an accent:



casa (house)
giorno (day)


bella (beautiful)
due (two)


sono (I am)
spesso (often)


lui (he)
oggi (today)



• Words with three or more syllables generally have the stress on the next to the last syllable:



inglese (English)
finito (finished)


andare (to go)
andresti (you'd go)


venire (to come)
supermercato (supermarket)


settimana (week)
straordinariamente (extraordinarily)



• If a word has an accent on the final vowel, it is stressed on the final syllable.



età (age)
metà (half)


così (like this)
perché (why, because)



Words of this type include many nouns that end in -ty in English



università (university)
curiosità (curiosity)


città (city)
crudeltà (cruelty)



• Two future tense forms always have an accent (I and he/she/it/You):



farò (I'll do)
aspetterò (I'll wait)


sarà (it will be)
si divertirà (she'll enjoy herself)



• Some words have the stress on a syllable which is not the last, or the next to the last. In this book we use italics to show when an unexpected syllable is stressed, to help you learn the correct pronunciation.



utile (useful)
numero (number)


macchina (car)
camera (room)


subito (suddenly)
compito (homework)


difficile (difficult)
portatile (portable)



• It's specially important to notice which syllable you should emphasize when pronouncing infinitives ending in -ere, because they vary. Some, such as avere (to have) and vedere (to see) have normal stress, on the next to the last syllable.
However, there are many important exceptions, for example:



essere (to be)
vendere (to sell)


scendere (to get off)
dividere (to divide)


scegliere (to choose)
chiudere (to close)




BUONO A SAPERSI!
Past participles such as finito and partito always have the stress on the next to last syllable, but similar-looking words such as subito and compito sometimes have the stress on a syllable you wouldn't expect.
2 • Italic letters in Italian words show where stress does not follow the usual rules.










Come va? - How are things?
Whether you're going to be working in Italy or you're going to spend some time with your Italian-speaking friends, you'll want to be able to chat with people and get to know them better. The phrases in this unit will help you talk naturally to friends, family and colleagues in a number of everyday situations.
GREETINGS

Just as in English, there are several ways of greeting people in Italian, depending on who you are addressing, and whether you want to be formal or not. Say buongiorno (good morning) or buonasera (good afternoon/good evening), if you want to sound polite.

Hello...


Buongiorno.
Hello.


Buongiorno signora Rossi.
Good morning, Mrs Rossi.


Buongiorno Francesco, come va?
Good afternoon Francesco, how are you?


Buonasera.
Good evening.



BUONO A SAPERSI!
buon pomeriggio (good afternoon) exists in Italian. However it is only used on the radio or television, for example by newscasters. It would sound a bit odd if you greeted people saying buon pomeriggio: stick to buongiorno or, later on in the day, buonasera. Remember to say buongiorno or buonasera as you enter a shop or a restaurant.


Use salve (hi) if you wish to sound a bit more informal, whether you know the people you are greeting or not. If you're on friendly terms with someone or if you are addressing somebody young, you can say ciao (hi).

Hi...


Salve, cerco Matteo.
Hi, I'm looking for Matteo.


Salve, come va?
Hi, how are things?


Ciao ragazzi, come va?
Hi there, how are things?



Use arrivederci to say goodbye to people you don't know well. You can just say ciao to people you know or to somebody young. buongiorno and buonasera are also often used to say goodbye.

Goodbye...


Arrivederci.
Goodbye.


Arrivederci, signora Clari!
Goodbye, Mrs Clari!


Ciao, ci vediamo domani.
Bye, see you tomorrow.


Allora io vado, buonasera a tutti.
I'm off, goodnight everybody.



BUONO A SAPERSI!
Remember to say in Italian arrivederci when you leave a shop or restaurant.


While in English you can use goodnight to mean 'goodbye' or to wish somebody a good night's sleep, in Italian you use buonanotte (goodnight) only before going to bed.

Goodnight...


Meglio domire adesso. Buonanotte!
Better go to sleep now. Goodnight!


Vado a dormire, sono proprio stanca. Buonanotte a tutti.
I'm going to bed, I'm really tired. stanca. Buonanotte a tutti. Goodnight everybody.


Buonanotte e sogni d'oro!
Goodnight and sweet dreams!


See you...


A domani!
See you tomorrow!


A lunedì!
See you on Monday!


Ci vediamo!
See you later!


Allora a più tardi, ciao!
See you later!



BUONO A SAPERSI!
In Italian, if you use a più tardi for see you later, you expect to see the person later on that day, not just some time in the future as in English.

INTRODUCING PEOPLE

You may want to introduce people you know to one another.The simplest way is by saying questo (or questa) è (this is) when introducing a person. You can also use ti presento (I'd like you to meet) when addressing someone you know well, or le presento to be more formal. When speaking to several people use vi presento.

This is...


Questo è mio marito David.
This is my husband, David.


Questi sono i miei figli Andrew, Gordon e Emma.
These are my children, Andrew, Gordon and Emma.


Ti presento Lara.
I'd like you to meet Lara.


Mi permetta di presentarle Richard, il mio compagno.
Let me introduce You to Richard, my partner.


Vi presento James, il fratello di Kate.
I'd like you all to meet James, Kate's brother.



When you're introduced to someone, you'll want to know how to react. Just say piacere (nice to meet you) or molto piacere (how do you do?). You can also say piacere di conoscerla, or conoscerti to somebody younger. You can then introduce yourself, by saying your name. In more formal situations, Italians quite often give their surname rather than their first name.

Nice to meet you...


Piacere, Emma.
Nice to meet you, I'm Emma.


Piacere, io sono Maree e questo è Kevin.
Nice to meet you, I'm Maree and this is Kevin.


Molto piacere, Sinclair.
How do you do, my name's Sinclair.


E tu sei Maria? Piacere di conoscerti.
Are you Maria? Nice to meet you.


Piacere di conoscerla, avvocato Martini.
Nice to meet You, Mr. Martini.



BUONO A SAPERSI!
Italians often use titles like avvocato (lawyer), ingegnere (engineer), architetto (architect) when addressing professionals, even without the name of the person, for example Buongiorno architetto!, in the same way as we would address a doctor.


If you want to introduce yourself to somebody, you can say Piacere... and your name. A more formal way is to use Mi permetta di presentarmi,... (May I introduce myself,...).

Hello, I'm...


Piacere, sono Kate Brooks.
Hello, I'm Kate Brooks.


Piacere, Peter.
Hello, I'm Peter.


Salve, sono il fratello di Jane.
Hi, I'm Jane's brother.


Mi permetta di presentarmi, mi Baxter.
May I introduce myself, I'm Thomas chiamo Thomas Baxter.



BUONO A SAPERSI!
If you have missed an introduction but you are keen to meet somebody you can say:
Mi scusi, non ci siamo presentati, io sono Catherine. Lei è...? (Excuse me, we've not been introduced, I'm Catherine, You're...?).

TALKING ABOUT YOURSELF

In order to get the conversation going, you'll want to be able to talk about yourself - what your name is, what you do and so on. To say what your name is in Italian, you use mi chiamo which literally means I call myself, from the verb chiamarsi (to be called). Alternatively, like in English, you can simply say sono (I am), from the verb essere (to be). For more information on the verbs chiamare and essere, see pages 275 and 282.

My name is...


Mi chiamo Jonathan Butterfield.
My name is Jonathan Butterfield.


Ciao, mi chiamo Danielle.
Hi, my name is Danielle.


Ci chiamiamo John e Francis.
We are John and Francis.


Salve, io sono Liam.
Hi, I'm Liam.


Piacere, noi siamo Christine e Peter.
Nice to meet you, we are Christine and Peter.



If you want to say how old you are, use ho followed by your age and anni (literally I have ... years). ho comes from the verb avere (to have). For more information on avere, see page 279.

I'm... years old


Ho trentasette anni.
I'm thirty-seven years old.


Ho ventidue anni.
I'm twenty-two.


Mio figlio ha otto anni.
My son's eight.


Quanti anni hai?
How old are you?



BUONO A SAPERSI!
If you have to ask Quanti anni ha? (How old are You?) you can always add se non sono indiscreto (or indiscreta) (if You don't mind my asking).


To talk about who you are and what you do, use sono (I am), ho (I have) and faccio (I do). These come from the verbs essere (to be), avere (to have) and fare (to do). For more information on these verbs, see pages 282, 279 and 283.

I'm...


Sono il fratello di Ben.
I'm Ben's brother.


Sono un'amica di Paul.
I'm a friend of Paul's.


Non sono sposata.
I'm not married.


Avevo una ragazza ma adesso sono single.
I had a girlfriend but I'm single now.


Siamo amiche di Helen.
We are Helen's friends.



When you say what you do in Italian, you use the verb fare (to do): I'm a baker is faccio il panettiere. The verb essere (to be) can also be used, but it is less common.

I'm a ...


Faccio l'insegnante.
I'm a teacher.


Faccio il medico.
I'm a doctor.


Faccio il programmatore presso un'azienda inglese.
I work as a programmer for a British company.


Sono avvocato.
I'm a lawer.


Siamo studentesse.
We are students.



BUONO A SAPERSI!
Remember that when talking about people's jobs, a in English is often translated by the definite article (il, la and so on) in Italian.

I have...


Ho due sorelle.
I have two sisters.


Ho un figlio e una figlia.
I have one son and one daughter.


Abbiamo parenti nel sud Italia.
We have relatives in southern Italy.


I live...


Abito nel Galles.
I live in Wales.


Abito da sola.
I live alone.


Abitiamo in un appartamento.
We live in a flat.


Adesso vivo in Italia.
I live in Italy now.


I'm staying...


Sto all'Hotel Belvedere.
I'm staying at the Hotel Belvedere.


Sto da amici.
I'm staying with friends.


Mi fermo a Milano per una settimana.
I'm staying in Milan for a week.



To say that you've done something for a given length of time, use da (for) with the present tense. Another common way of talking about things you've been doing for a while is to use sono... che....

I have been... for...


Faccio l'infermiera da cinque anni.
I've been a nurse for five years.


Vivo in Italia da dieci anni.
I've been living in Italy for ten years.


Sono a Ravenna da due settimane.
I've been in Ravenna for two weeks.


Sono sei mesi che studio l'italiano.
I've been learning Italian for 6 months.


Sono tre mesi che insegno inglese in Italia.
I've been teaching English in Italy for 3 months.


ASKING FOR INFORMATION

When you're chatting socially, you will want to ask any number of questions. One simple way of finding out information from someone is to say mi parli di (tell me about) to someone you don't know very well, or parlami di to someone younger. These come from the verb parlare (to speak). For more information on this verb, see page 275.

Tell me about...


Mi parli della sua famiglia.
Tell me about Your family.


Mi parli un po' di lei.
Tell me a bit about Yourself.


Parlami del tuo nuovo ragazzo.
Tell me about your new boyfriend.


Dimmi in che consiste il tuo lavoro.
Tell me what your job involves.


Ma basta parlare di me. Dimmi di te, adesso.
Enough about me. Now tell me about you.



Another common way of asking for information in spoken Italian is to use question words: Come...? (How...?), Cosa...? (What...?), Dove...? (Where...?), Quando...? (When...?) and so on.

How...?


Come va?
How are things?


Come sta?
How are You?


Come stai, Marco?
How are you, Marco?


Volevo chiederti, com'è andata la vacanza?
I meant to ask, how was your holiday?


Come va con l'università?
How's university going?


What...?


Cosa fai nella vita?
What do you do?


Cosa le piace fare nel tempo libero?
What do You enjoy doing in your free time?


Cosa farai quando finisci l'università?
What are you going to do when you finish university?


What's your name?


Come si chiama?
What's Your name?


Ciao! E tu come ti chiami?
Hi! What's your name?


Come si chiama sua moglie?
What's Your wife's name?


Come vi chiamate?
What are your names?


Where...?


Dove abita?
Where do You live?


Dove lavora?
Where do You work?


Dov'è il suo ufficio?
Where is Your office?


Di dove sei?
Where do you come from?


When...?


Quando arrivi?
When will you get here?


Quando parte?
When are You leaving?


Quando ci troviamo?
What time are we meeting?


Quand'è il tuo compleanno?
When is your birthday?



If you want to ask how long someone has been doing something, use Da quanto tempo...? or just Da quanto...? (How long ... for?) followed by the present tense. For more information on the present tense, see page 271.

How long have...?


Da quanto tempo lavori qui?
How long have you been working here?


Da quanto tempo è sposata?
How long have You been married?


Da quanto stai in Italia?
How long have you been in Italy?



Sometimes you'll want to ask why a friend or acquaintance did or didn't do something. You can use Perché...? (Why...?) and the past tense to ask. For more information on the past tense, see page 272.

Why...?


Perché hai cambiato casa?
Why did you move house?


Perché si è licenziata?
Why did You quit your job?


Perché non mi hai telefonato?
Why didn't you call me?


Perché non c'è andata?
Why didn't You go?


SAYING WHAT YOU WANT TO DO

When you're talking to friends or colleagues you will often need to be able to talk about what you would like to do. To say what you want to do, use vorrei (I'd like). vorrei comes from the verb volere (to want). For more information on volere, see page 285.

I'd like to...


Vorrei ringraziarla dell'aiuto.
I'd like to thank You for your help.


Vorrei parlare con la signora Martini, per favore.
I'd like to speak to Mrs Martini, please.


Vorremmo invitarvi a bere qualcosa.
We'd like to take you out for a drink.


Vorremmo presentarle un amico.
We'd like You to meet a friend of ours.



You can also use voglio (I want) to talk about what you want to do. If you want to say that you want someone to do something, you use voglio che followed by the subjunctive. For more information on the subjunctive, see page 273.

I want to...


Voglio organizzare una festa.
I want to organize a party.


Voglio invitare un po' di amici per il mio compleanno.
I want to have a few friends over for my birthday.


Voglio che tu venga con me.
I want you to come with me.


Voglio che la serata vada bene.
I want the evening to be a success.


MAKING SUGGESTIONS

One easy way of making suggestions to your friends and colleagues is to use si potrebbe (we could) followed by the verb in the infinitive. potrebbe comes from the verb potere (to be able). For more information on potere, see page 284.

We could...


Si potrebbe chiedere a Paul di venire con noi.
We could ask Paul to join us.


Si potrebbe uscire a bere qualcosa insieme.
We could go out for a drink.


Ci si potrebbe incontrare un'altra
We could meet another time. volta.


Ci si potrebbe trovare al Caffè San Marco.
We could meet at the Caffè San Marco.



Just as in English you can make a suggestion by simply asking Perché non ...? (Why don't ...?).

Why don't...?


Perché non ci troviamo uno di questi giorni?
Why don't we get together sometime?


Perché non invitiamo Fabio e la sua ragazza?
Why don't we invite Fabio and his girlfriend?


Perché non li chiami?
Why don't you phone them?


Perché non viene a pranzo con me?
Why not meet me for lunch?



You can also make a suggestion using the Italian phrase E se...? (How about...?) which is followed by a verb in the imperfect subjunctive. For more information on the subjunctive, see page 273.

How about...?


E se li invitassimo a cena?
How about asking them round for dinner?


E se venisse con noi?
How about if You came with us?


E se passassi a prenderti la mattina?
How about if I picked you up in the morning?



Use Dovrei...? (Should I...?) followed by the verb in the infinitive to ask if you should do something. dovrei comes from the verb dovere (to have to). For more information on dovere, see page 281.

Should I...?


Dovrei invitare Anna?
Should I invite Anna?


Dovrei richiamarla?
Should I call her back?


Dovrei scusarmi?
Should I apologize?


EXPRESSING OPINIONS

When talking to people in a social or work situation, you may wish to express your opinion of something. In Italian you can use credo or penso (I think). When you use credere and pensare with che, the verb which follows is in the subjunctive. For more information on the subjunctive, see page 273.

I think...


Penso che sia una splendida idea.
I think it's a great idea.


Penso proprio che sia troppo tardi per andare al cinema.
I think it's really too late to go to the cinema.


Credo che Sonia abbia ragione.
I think Sonia's right.


Non credo proprio che sia così.
I don't think that's the case at all.


Non credo che sia una buona idea rivederci.
I don't think it's a good idea for us to see each other again.


In my opinion...


Secondo me è una buona idea.
In my opinion, it's a good idea.


Secondo me ci creerà problemi.
In my opinion, it will cause us problems.


Secondo me è la decisione giusta.
In my opinion, it's the right decision.


Per me non è vero.
In my opinion, it's not true.



If you want to ask other people what they think of something, use Che ne pensa di...? (What do You think of...?). Use Che ne pensi di...? if you are talking to somebody you know well or to somebody young.

What do you think of...?


Che ne pensa del suo ultimo film?
What do You think of his latest movie?


Che ne pensa di questo ristorante?
What do You think of this restaurant?


Che ne pensi di questa idea?
What do you think of this idea?


Che ne pensa?
What do You think?



To agree or disagree with what other people say, use sono d'accordo or non sono d'accordo.

I agree...


Sono d'accordo.
I agree.


Sono d'accordo con Nigel.
I agree with Nigel.


Sono completamente d'accordo con lei!
I entirely agree with You!


Non sono del tutto d'accordo con Giovanni.
I don't altogether agree with Giovanni.


Non condivido questa decisione.
I don't agree with this decision.



Where we use the verb to be in English in the phrases to be right and to be wrong, Italian speakers use avere (to have): avere ragione (to be right), avere torto (to be wrong).

You're right...


Hai ragione!
You're right!


Secondo me ha ragione.
I think You're right.


Ha ragione Matteo.
Matteo's right.


Credo che abbiate ragione voi.
I think you're right.


Per me Marina ha torto.
I think Marina is wrong.


Fai male a non ascoltarla.
You're wrong not to listen to her.


TALKING ABOUT YOUR PLANS

When talking to your colleagues and friends you will want to tell them about your plans. In Italian, as in English, the present is very often used to talk about plans, especially for things that have been arranged and that are definite. For more on the present tense, see page 271.

I'm...


Vedo Gianni giovedì.
I'm seeing Gianni on Thursday.


La vedo questo pomeriggio.
I'm seeing her this afternoon.


Andiamo al cinema stasera.
We're going to the cinema tonight.


Pranziamo insieme venerdì prossimo.
We're going for lunch next Friday.



In English, when we talk about the future we often say I'm going to. In Italian you can either use the future or the present tense (see page 271).

I'm going to...


Gli telefonerò.
I'm going to phone him.


Lo avvertirò che non posso venire.
I'm going to let him know I can't come.


Dirò loro di venire un po' più tardi.
I'm going to tell them to come a bit later.


Usciamo a cena domani sera.
We're going to go out for dinner tomorrow night.


Andiamo a trovarli lunedì.
We're going to go and see them on Monday.


Are you going to...?


Glielo dici oggi?
Are you going to tell him the news today?


Pensi di rivederlo?
Are you going to see him again?


Lei ci va a questa festa?
Are You going to go to this party?


Comprerà una casa?
Are You going to buy a house?



When talking about what you intend to do, you can use ho intenzione di (I intend to) followed by a verb in the infinitive.

I intend to...


Ho intenzione di invitarla a bere qualcosa.
I intend to ask her out for a drink.


Ho intenzione di andarli a trovare quest'estate.
I intend to go and see them this summer.


Abbiamo intenzione di invitarlo durante la vacanze.
We intend to invite him over during the holidays.


Intendo sistemare la questione prima possibile.
I intend to sort out this problem as soon as possible.


Do you intend to...?


Hai intenzione di andare al matrimonio di Carlo e Mariella?
Do you intend to go to Carlo and Mariella's wedding?


Ha intenzione di contattarli?
Do You intend to get in touch with them?


Cosa hai intenzione di dire?
What do you intend to say?


Intende restare in questa zona?
Do You intend to stay in this area?


Come intendi dargli la notizia?
How do you intend to tell him the news?


MAKING ARRANGEMENTS

When making arrangements with someone, use Le va bene...? or, more informally, Ti va bene...? (Is it okay by you if...?) to ask someone if something suits them. va comes from the verb andare. For more information on andare, see page 278.

Is it okay by you if...?


Le va bene cenare alle nove?
Is it okay by You if we have dinner at nine?


Le va bene alle due?
Is two o'clock okay by You?


Ti va bene se ti telefono la settimana prossima?
Will it be okay if I phone you next week?


Vi va bene se restiamo d'accordo così?
Would this arrangement be okay by you?



To ask somebody if they would prefer something, use Preferisce...? or, more informally, Preferisci...? (Would you prefer it...?) which are from the present tense of the verb preferire. You can also use the conditional Preferirebbe... or Preferiresti.... For more information on -ire verbs like preferire and on the conditional, see pages 268 and 274.

Would you prefer it if...?


Preferisci che ci incontriamo in centro?
Would you prefer it if we met in town?


Preferisce che ci troviamo al ristorante?
Would You prefer it if we met at the restaurant?


Preferite che vi passi a prendere?
Would you prefer me to come and collect you?


Preferirebbe andare allo spettacolo dopo?
Would You prefer it if we went to the later show?


Is it better to...?


È meglio invitare anche sua moglie?
Is it better to invite his wife as well?


È meglio se ti chiamo di sera?
Is it better to ring you in the evening?


È meglio se l'avvisiamo prima di venire?
Is it better to let You know before we drop in?



If you want to confirm an arrangement with somebody, you can use Siamo d'accordo...? or Allora d'accordo...? (Are we agreed...?).

Are we agreed on...?


Siamo d'accordo per la data?
Are we agreed on the date?


Siamo d'accordo su dove trovarci?
Are we agreed on where to meet?


D'accordo, signora?
Are we agreed, madam?


Allora d'accordo?
Are we agreed, then?


D'accordo.
Agreed!



BUONO A SAPERSI!
D'accordo is used to accept offers or to agree: Ci andiamo insieme? - D'accordo! (Shall we go together? - OK!).

SAYING WHAT YOU HAVE TO DO

When you want to say that you have to do something in Italian, you use devo (I have to) followed by the infinitive. devo comes from the verb dovere (to have to). For more information on dovere, see page 281.

I have to...


Devo fare una telefonata.
I have to make a phone call.


Devo stare a casa stasera.
I have to stay in tonight.


Devo andare a cena con i colleghi.
I have to go out to dinner with my colleagues.


Dobbiamo essere là alle otto in punto.
We have to be there at eight o'clock sharp.


I must...


Devo finire prima delle due.
I must finish before two o'clock.


Adesso devo proprio andare.
I really must go now.


Devo telefonare a mia moglie.
I must call my wife.


Do you have to...?


Devi dargli una risposta oggi?
Do you have to give him an answer today?


Deve andare subito?
Do You have to go right now?


Dobbiamo portare qualcosa?
Do we have to bring something?



When you want to say that you should or ought to do something, use dovrei (I should) and then the verb in the infinitive. To find out more about the infinitive, see page 267.

I should...


Dovrei chiamare Anne.
I should call Anne.


Dovrei darle il mio numero di cellulare.
I should give You my mobile number.


Dovreste venire a trovarci.
You should come and see us.



To ask what someone has to do or when or why they have to do it, put cosa (what), quando (when) or perché (why) at the beginning of the sentence, before deve or, more informally, devi (do you have to?). deve and devi come from the verb dovere (to have to). For more information on dovere, see page 281.

What do you have to...?


Cosa deve fare?
What do You have to do?


Quando devi partire?
When do you have to go?


Perché dovete rientrare così presto?
Why do you have to go back so soon?



To say that you don't have to do something, you can use non sono obbligato (or obbligata) a (I'm not obliged to).

I don't have to...


Non sono obbligato a restare in albergo.
I don't have to stay at the hotel.


Non sono obbligata a invitarli da me, se è tardi.
I don't have to invite them back, if it's late.


Non siamo obbligati a coinvolgere tutta la famiglia.
We don't have to involve the whole family.



To say what you mustn't do, you can use non devo (I mustn't) and then the verb in the infinitive.

I mustn't...


Non devo fare tardi anche stasera.
I mustn't be late again tonight.


Non devo perdere il suo numero.
I mustn't lose his number.


Non dobbiamo vederci più.
We mustn't see each other again.


LISTEN OUT FOR
Here are some key phrases which you are likely to hear in conversation.


Salve, come va?
Hi, how are you?


Ci conosciamo?
Have we met before?


È qua con amici?
Are You here with friends?


Di dove sei?
Where are you from?


Quanto vi fermate a Catania?
How long are you staying in Catania?


Da quanto studia l'italiano?
How long have You been learning Italian?


Riesce a seguire la conversazione?
Are You following the conversation?


Veramente, parli un ottimo italiano.
Your Italian is really very good.


Parlo troppo veloce?
Am I speaking too fast?


Preferisce se parlo inglese?
Would You prefer it if I spoke English?


Vuole che ripeta?
Would You like me to say it again?


Vuole che parli più piano?
Do You want me to speak more slowly?


Capisce il dialetto?
Do You understand dialect?


Mi scusi, ma parlo un pessimo inglese.
I'm sorry, but my English is really bad.


Mi può dare del tu.
You can call me tu.


Potremmo darci del tu.
Shall we call each other tu?


È sposata?
Are You married?


Avete figli?
Have you got any children?


Vieni qua spesso?
Do you come here often?


Mi piacerebbe rivederti.
I'd like to see you again.




Lifestyle Tips
• The polite you (lei) is used to address people whom you don't know. It's also a way of showing respect to someone who's older than you, or to someone who's senior to you at work. People who work together on a daily basis usually say tu to each other, (darsi del tu - to say tu to each other) but it is safer to wait a little before taking that step. Many people do not like to be addressed as lei, because they think it's too formal. They will usually suggest you call them tu, saying mi puoi dare del tu or possiamo darci del tu. You can make the first move and ask Ci diamo del tu?, if you think that the other person will be more comfortable using the tu form.
• Like sir in English, signore is a formal way of addressing a man. signora, however, is used much more in Italian than madam is in English. You can use it to address any woman you call lei, even if you know her well.
• When meeting someone for the first time, you usually shake hands (darsi la mano), whether it's a man or a woman. In the world of business, in meetings or in negotiations, shaking hands is very common. Men who are on friendly terms usually shake hands, while women kiss each other on both cheeks. Men kiss female friends and also male relatives. Bear in mind that habits may be different depending on where you are in Italy.
• The words ragazzo and ragazza can either mean boy/girl or boyfriend/girlfriend. If someone says il mio ragazzo, they are talking about their boyfriend. However, you stop using ragazzo/ragazza when you get older, perhaps after the age of 25. To say my partner, use il mio compagno for a man and la mia compagna for a woman.
• Italian people socialize in cafés, bars and restaurants as British people do. Italian bars serve both coffee and alcoholic drinks, so you can go to a bar both a prendere un caffè or a prendere l'aperitivo (a drink before lunch or dinner). Italy does not have a drinking culture, and people don't usually spend the whole evening drinking.










Buon viaggio! - Hav e a good trip!
If you're going to be travelling to and around Italy, the phrases in this unit will help you ask for directions, find out how to get to places and talk to fellow travellers in everyday Italian.
TALKING ABOUT YOUR PLANS

When you're travelling around, you will probably want to talk about what you're going to do. You can use the future tense or the present tense to talk about your plans. For more information about the future and the present tenses, see page 271.

I'll...


Passerò una settimana a Roma.
I'll spend a week in Rome.


Raggiungerò degli amici a Ferrara.
I'll be joining some friends in Ferrara.


Torneremo a Milano per il fine settimana.
We'll get back to Milan for the weekend.


E poi vado a Pisa.
Then I'll go to Pisa.


Torniamo a Napoli dopo una settimana.
We'll go back to Naples a week later.


Ci fermiamo qui fino alla fine del mese.
We'll be staying here till the end of the month.



When you're talking about what you intend to do, you can use ho intenzione di (I intend to) followed by a verb in the infinitive.

I intend to...


Ho intenzione di prendere il treno delle sette.
I intend to get the seven o'clock train.


Ho intenzione di passare la giornata a Catania.
I'm going to spend the day in Catania.


E poi abbiamo intenzione di andare a Palermo.
Then we're going to go to Palermo.


Abbiamo intenzione di fare la strada costiera.
We intend to drive along the coast.


I'm planning to...


Ho in programma di noleggiare una macchina.
I'm planning to hire a car.


Ho in programma di andare in Sicilia.
I'm planning to go to Sicily.


Conto di passare due giorni a Cortina.
I plan to spend two days in Cortina.


I hope to...


Spero di andare in Toscana quest'anno.
I hope to go to Tuscany this year.


Spero di visitare gli Uffizi.
I hope to visit the Uffizi.


Speriamo di riuscire a vedere tutto.
We hope we can see everything.



Use salvo imprevisti or se tutto va bene (if all goes to plan) at the beginning of a sentence to talk about a plan that might have to be changed.

If all goes to plan...


Salvo imprevisti arrivo entro venerdì.
If all goes to plan, I'll be there by Friday.


Se tutto va bene, ci fermiamo prima a Taormina.
If all goes to plan, we're going to stop in Taormina first.


SAYING WHAT YOU HAVE TO DO

If you want to say that you have to do something in Italian, such as buy a ticket, catch a train and so on, you use devo (I have to) or dovrei (I ought to) followed by the infinitive. These are from the verb dovere (to have to). For more information on dovere, see page 281.

I have to...


Domani devo comprare il biglietto per il traghetto.
I have to buy my ticket for the ferry tomorrow.


Devo prima prendere il treno per Parma.
I have to get the train to Parma first.


Devo andare a prendere la macchina entro le tre.
I have to pick up the car before three.


Deve presentare la patente.
You have to show your driving licence.


I ought to...


Dovrei fare ancora benzina.
I ought to get some more petrol.


Dovrei confermare il volo.
I ought to confirm my flight.


Dovremmo essere in stazione alle sette.
We ought to be at the station at seven.



Another way of saying what you must do is to use bisogna che (it is necessary that) followed by the subjunctive. For more information about the subjunctive, see page 273.

I must...


Adesso bisogna proprio che vada in stazione.
I really must go to the station now.


Bisogna che lo chiamiamo domani mattina.
We must call him tomorrow morning.


Bisogna che ritiri i biglietti in agenzia.
I must pick up the tickets from the travel agent's.


SAYING WHAT YOU HAVE TO DO

When you are travelling, you may want to say what you would like to do in Italian. You can use vorrei (I'd like) or voglio (I want) with the infinitive. They both come from the verb volere (to want). For more information on volere, see page 285.

I want to...


Voglio andare a Torino.
I want to go to Turin.


Voglio scendere a Verona.
I want to get off at Verona.


Voglio cambiare il biglietto.
I want to change my ticket.


Vogliamo partire domani mattina.
We want to leave tomorrow morning.


I don't want to...


Non voglio viaggiare in prima classe.
I don't want to travel first class.


Non voglio andare fin là a piedi.
I don't want to walk all the way there.


Non voglio perdere la coincidenza.
I don't want to miss my connection.


I'd like to...


Vorrei noleggiare una bici.
I'd like to hire a bike.


Vorrei andarci in barca.
I'd like to go by boat.


Il mio amico vorrebbe denunciare lo smarrimento del bagaglio.
My friend would like to report his luggage missing.



You can also use desidero (I would like), which is slightly more formal. This comes from desiderare (to want). For more information on -are verbs like desiderare, see page 268.

I would like...


Desidero un biglietto di sola andata in prima classe.
I would like a single ticket, first class, please.


Desideriamo prenotare un tavolo al vagone ristorante.
We would like to reserve a table in the dining car, please.



If you want to say that you feel like doing something, say ho voglia di or mi va di (I feel like). ho comes from the verb avere and va comes from andare. For more information on avere and andare, see pages 279 and 278.

I feel like...


Ho voglia di passare per Fiesole.
I feel like going via Fiesole.


Ho proprio voglia di andare a Portofino.
I quite fancy going to Portofino.


Non ho nessuna voglia di passare sei ore in treno.
I really don't feel like spending six hours on the train.


Mi va di spezzare il viaggio.
I feel like breaking the journey.


Non mi va di passare un'altra notte qua.
I don't feel like spending another night here.


TALKING ABOUT YOUR PLANS

You may wish to make a suggestion to your colleagues or friends in Italian. One way of doing this is to use potremmo (we could), or si potrebbe (one could). Both come from the verb potere (to be able). For more information on potere, see page 284.

We could...


Potremmo andare domani.
We could go there tomorrow.


Potremmo fare tappa a Siena.
We could break our journey at Siena.


Si potrebbe andare a piedi, se preferisci.
We could walk, if you prefer.



If you want to ask someone if they would like to do something, you can generally use the verb volere (to want). An alternative is ti piacerebbe or, to somebody you know less well, le piacerebbe, from the verb piacere. For more information on volere, see page 285.

Would you like to...?


Vuoi andare in acqua?
Would you like to go for a swim?


Vuoi riposare un po'?
Would you like to have a little rest?


Vuoi guidare?
Would you like to drive?


Vuole fermarsi qui?
Would You like to stop here?


Ti piacerebbe andarci a piedi?
Would you like to walk there?


Le piacerebbe visitare il museo?
Would You like to go to the museum?



Just as in English, you can make a suggestion by simply asking Perché non...? (Why don't...?).

Why don't...?


Perché non noleggiamo una macchina?
Why don't we hire a car?


Perché non prendiamo la metropolitana?
Why don't we take the underground?


Perché non chiediamo al conducente?
Why don't we ask the driver?



You can make a suggestion using E se...? (How about...?) which is followed by a verb in the imperfect subjunctive. For more information on the subjunctive, see page 273.

How about...?


E se prendessimo l'autostrada?
How about going on the motorway?


E se ci andassimo in traghetto?
How about taking the ferry?


E se passassimo per Riccione?
How about going via Riccione?


...if you like


Ti posso dare un passaggio, se vuoi.
I can give you a lift, if you like.


Possiamo chiedere al controllore, se vuole.
We can ask the ticket inspector, if You like.


Se vuole possiamo dividere un taxi per l'aeroporto.
We can share a taxi to the airport, if You like.


ASKING FOR INFORMATION

When you are travelling around in Italy, you will often need some information to help you get to where you want to go. When you are asking for information you may need to get someone's attention in order to ask them a question. To do this you can use Scusi... or Mi scusi..., if addressing an adult, or Scusa..., if you're addressing somebody younger.

Excuse me...


Scusi, cerco la stazione.
Excuse me, I'm looking for the station.


Scusi, cerco il municipio.
Excuse me, I'm looking for the town hall.


Mi scusi, cerco la piazza principale.
Excuse me, I'm looking for the main square.



BUONO A SAPERSI!
Remember to say grazie or tante grazie when you get the information. If someone hasn't been able to help you, you can still thank them by saying grazie lo stesso (thanks all the same).


If you want to ask a general question, you can use È...? (Is it...?).

Is it...?


È di qua?
Is it this way?


È vicino?
Is it near here?


È lontano?
Is it far?


È questo il treno per Lecce?
Is this the train for Lecce?


È questa la fermata per il museo?
Is this the stop for the museum?


È libero questo posto?
Is this seat free?


Is there...?


C'è un distributore nei paraggi, per favore?
Is there a petrol station near here, please?


C'è una stazione della metropolitana qui vicino?
Is there an underground station near here?


C'è uno sconto per studenti?
Is there a reduction for students?


Ci sono ristoranti in questa zona?
Are there any restaurants around here?



In order to get more specific information, you may want to ask, for example, Dove...? (Where...?), Quale...? (Which...?), or A che ora...? (What time...?).

Where...?


Dov'è il deposito bagagli?
Where's the left-luggage office?


Dov'è il più vicino posteggio di taxi, per favore?
Where's the nearest taxi rank, please?


Dove sono le toilettes?
Where are the public toilets?


Which...?


Quale linea devo prendere, per favore?
Which line do I take, please?


Quali autobus vanno in centro?
Which buses go to the town centre?


Da quale binario parte il treno per Pisa?
Which platform does the train for Pisa go from?


Scusi, in che direzione è Treviso, per favore?
Excuse me, which way do I go for Treviso, please?


In che direzione è l'Arena, per favore?
Which way is it to the Arena, please?


What time...?


A che ora è l'imbarco?
What time do we board?


A che ora parte il treno?
What time does the train leave?


A che ora arriviamo a Bologna?
What time do we get to Bologna?


How often...?


Con quale frequenza partono le corriere per Trento?
How often is there a bus for Trento?


Con quale frequenza partono i voli per Londra?
How often is there a flight to London?


Ogni quanti chilometri bisogna fare il pieno?
How often do you have to fill up?


Quante soste facciamo per strada?
How often do we stop on the way?


How long...?


Quanto ci si mette?
How long does it take?


Quanto ci si mette per arrivare in stazione?
How long does it take to get to the railway station?


Quanto ci si mette per andare da Rovigo a Verona?
How long does it take to get from Rovigo to Verona?


Quanto ci mettiamo per arrivare?
How long will it take us to get there?


How much is...?


Quanto costa un biglietto per Cagliari?
How much is a ticket to Cagliari?


Quanto si paga di autostrada da Milano a Pisa?
How much is the motorway toll between Milan and Pisa?


Quanto costa lasciare la valigia al deposito bagagli?
How much does it cost to leave a case in left-luggage?


Quanto costerebbe affittare unamacchina per due giorni?
How much would it cost to hire a car for two days?



Use Posso...? (Can I...?) or Si può...? (Can you...?) to ask whether you can do something, or if something is generally possible. These are from the verb potere (to be able). For more information on potere, see page 284.

Can I...?


Posso noleggiare una macchina per una giornata?
Can I hire a car for one day?


Possiamo cambiare il biglietto in Internet?
Can we change our tickets online?


Ci si può andare a piedi?
Can you walk there?


Si può fumare in treno?
Can you smoke on the train?


Si può pagare con la carta di credito?
Is it possible to pay by credit card?


ASKING FOR THINGS

When asking for something, you can use Mi dà...? (Can I have...?) or Potrebbe darmi...? (Could I have...?). These come from the verb dare (to give). For more information on dare, see page 280.

Can I have...?


Mi dà una piantina della metropolitana, per favore?
Can I have a map of the underground, please?


Mi dà un abbonamento settimanale, per favore?
Can I have a weekly pass, please?


Potrebbe darmi l'orario ferroviario, per favore?
Could I have a train timetable, please?



Often, just as in English, you can leave out Mi dà...? or Potrebbe darmi...? and just ask directly for what you need.

A..., please


Un biglietto di sola andata, per favore.
A single, please.


Un posto vicino al finestrino, per favore.
A window seat, please.


Una cabina per 2 persone, per favore.
A cabin for two, please.


Tre biglietti andata e ritorno per Como.
Three returns to Como.



When you want to find out if something is available, or if someone has something, use Ha...? (Have you got...?) or, more informally, Hai...?. Use Avete..? if you are asking more than one person. These come from the verb avere (to have). For more information on avere, see page 279.

Have you got...?


Ha l'orario degli autobus?
Have You got the bus timetable?


Ha una cartina che mostra come arrivarci, per favore?
Have You got a map that shows how to get there, please?


Hai l'ora, per favore?
Have you got the time, please?


Avete l'orario dei traghetti?
Have you got the timetable for the ferry, please?



If you are asking someone if they can do something for you, you should use Può...? (Can you...?), although può can also be left out.

Can you...?


Mi può avvisare quando stiamo per arrivare alla fermata per il museo?
Can You tell me when we're near the museum stop?


Mi può lasciare qui, per favore?
Can You drop me here, please?


Ci può portare all'Hotel Duomo, per favore?
Can You take us to Hotel Duomo, please?


Ci mostra dov'è sulla piantina?
Can You show us where it is on the map?


Would you mind...?


Le dispiacerebbe scrivere l'indirizzo?
Would You mind writing down the address?


Le dispiacerebbe lasciarmi all'albergo?
Would You mind dropping me at my hotel?


Le dispiacerebbe mostrarci dov'è?
Would You mind showing us where it is?


SAYING WHAT YOU LIKE,DISLIKE, PREFER

You will want to be able to discuss what you like and dislike with your Italian-speaking acquaintances. To say what you like, use mi piace (I like) with singular nouns and mi piacciono with plural nouns. To say what you don't like, use non mi piace or non mi piacciono (I don't like) These come from the verb piacere.

I like...


Mi piace viaggiare in treno.
I like travelling by train.


Mi piacciono queste stradine di campagna.
I like these country roads.


Mi piace molto viaggiare in nave.
I really like travelling by boat.


Mi piace tantissimo viaggiare in aereo.
I love flying.


I don't like...


Non mi piace guidare sulla destra.
I don't like driving on the right.


Non mi piace guidare di notte.
I don't like driving at night.


Non mi piacciono le macchine col cambio automatico.
I don't like automatics.


I hate...


Odio i motorini.
I hate scooters.


Odio le cartine!
I hate maps!


Detesto dover chiedere indicazioni.
I hate having to ask for directions.


Do you like...?


Ti piace viaggiare in aereo?
Do you like flying?


Ti piace viaggiare da sola?
Do you like travelling by yourself?


Le piace questa regione?
Do You like this area?


Le piacciono i viaggi organizzati?
Do You like package tours?



If you want to say what you prefer, use preferisco (I prefer) or preferirei (I'd prefer). These come from the verb preferire (to prefer). For more information on -ire verbs like preferire, see page 268.

I prefer to...


Preferisco viaggiare in aereo.
I prefer to fly.


Preferisco prendere l'autostrada.
I prefer to go on the motorway.


I'd rather...


Preferirei viaggiare col bel tempo.
I'd rather make the journey in good weather.


Preferirei sedermi vicino al
I'd rather sit next to the window. finestrino.


Preferirei non lasciare qui la mia
I'd rather not leave my car here.


Preferiremmo guidare di giorno.
We'd rather drive in the daytime.


LISTEN OUT FOR
Here are some key phrases which you are likely to hear when you're travelling about.


Prossima fermata: ...
Next stop: ...


Il treno diretto per Bologna platform three.
The train for Bologna centrale leaves from centrale parte dal binario tre.


Si deve convalidare il biglietto
You must stamp your ticket at the station. in stazione.


Biglietto, prego.
Ticket, please.


Le dispiace se mi siedo qui?
Do you mind if I sit here?


Continui dritto fino al semaforo.
Go straight on till You get to the traffic lights.


Prenda la seconda a sinistra.
Take the second turning on the left.


È difronte alla cattedrale.
It's opposite the cathedral.


È vicinissimo.
It's very near.


Ha sbagliato strada.
You've gone the wrong way.


Ci si può andare a piedi.
It's within walking distance.


È fra tre fermate.
It's three stops from here.


Imbarco immediato, uscita 3.
Now boarding at gate 3.



Lifestyle Tips
• If you're behind the wheel of a car, be ready to produce your driving licence if asked for it by the police. If you haven't got it with you, you may well be fined. The police officer might ask you: patente, prego (your driving licence, please). Italian drivers also have to be able to produce their libretto di circolazione (registration document) and their assicurazione (insurance certificate).
• Motorways are not free in Italy. When you go onto the motorway, you get a biglietto. When you come off the motorway this will show how many kilometres you've driven and how much you have to pay (il pedaggio).
• If you're asked to produce your biglietto on the bus, the train or the underground, it means that you have to show your ticket to the inspector.
• Generally, you have to buy your ticket before getting on a bus. Once on board the bus, you date-stamp the ticket by punching it in a machine. You can buy tickets at newsagents and many tobacconists. If you are staying in a place for some time, it may be worth buying an abbonamento, which will last a month from when it is first stamped.
• Train tickets need to be punched before you get on a train. Tickets are only valid if date-stamped, so if you have forgotten to do this, it is advisable to go and see il controllore (the ticket inspector) as soon as possible, or you might be fined.
• If you're in a hurry, you can hop on the train and buy a ticket directly from a ticket inspector. This will cost you more, however.
• Queues tend to be informal in Italy. So if you're trying to get to an information desk and don't know if it's your turn, just ask Tocca a me?. If you want to let someone in before you, you can say prego, dopo di lei (after you).










Buonanotte! - Sleep well!
If you're going to stay in Italy, the phrases in this unit will provide you with the language you need to help you find the sort of accommodation you want and ensure everything is to your satisfaction when you're there. We'll also give you a few tips on what the receptionist or your landlord or landlady may say to you.
ASKING FOR THINGS

To say what kind of accommodation you want in Italian, use vorrei (I'd like), or, if you want to be slightly more direct, voglio (I want). These come from the verb volere (to want). For more information on volere, see page 285.

I'd like...


Vorrei una stanza con balcone.
I'd like a room with a balcony.


Vorrei prenotare una camera doppia per due notti.
I'd like to book a double room for two nights.


Vorrei fermarmi tre notti.
I'd like to stay three nights.


Vorrei prenotare una stanza nel vostro agriturismo per due settimane.
I'd like to book a room in your agriturismo for two weeks.


I want...


Voglio un appartamento luminoso.
I want a flat with plenty of light.


Voglio cambiare stanza; quella che mi avete dato è troppo rumorosa.
I want to change rooms; the one you gave me is too noisy.


Voglio un rimborso.
I want a refund.


Non vogliamo una stanza che dia sulla strada.
We don't want a room overlooking the road.



When you want to find out if something is available, use Avete...? (Do you have...?) or Avreste...? (Would you have...?). These come from the verb avere (to have). For more information on avere, see page 279.

Do you have...?


Avete informazioni su dove alloggiare?
Do you have any information about accommodation?


Avete camere libere?
Have you got any rooms free?


Avreste degli asciugamani, per favore?
Would you have any towels, please?


C'è accesso ad Internet?
Have you got internet access?



If you want to ask for something, you can use Mi dà..? (Can I have...?).

Can I have...?


Mi dà la chiave della stanza, per favore?
Can I have the key to my room, please?


Mi dà una ricevuta, per favore?
Can I have a receipt, please?


Ci dà una lista degli alloggi disponibili?
Can we have a list of available accommodation?


Mi potrebbe dare ancora due asciugamani?
Could I have two more towels?



If you are asking someone whether they can do something for you, use Può...? (Can You...?) and Potrebbe...? (Could You...?) or, more informally, Puoi...? or Potresti...?. They all come from the verb potere (to be able). For more information on potere, see page 284.

Can you...?


Può darmi conferma della prenotazione per posta elettronica?
Can You confirm the booking by email?


Mi può svegliare alle sette, per favore?
Can You give me an alarm call at seven o'clock, please?


Potrebbe cambiare gli asciugamani, per favore?
Could You change the towels, please?


Potrebbe farmi vedere la stanza, per favore?
Could You show me the room, please?


Would you mind...?


Le dispiacerebbe mostrarmi come funziona il forno?
Would You mind showing me how the oven works?


Le dispiacerebbe chiamarmi un taxi?
Would You mind calling a taxi for me?


Le dispiacerebbe portarmi la my room?
Would You mind taking my suitcases up to valigia in camera?


TALKING ABOUT YOURSELF

When you are enquiring about somewhere to stay you will need to give information about yourself. Use sono (I am) to talk about yourself and siamo (we are) to include the people who are with you. These come from the verb essere (to be). For more information on essere, see page 282.

I'm...


Sono una studentessa.
I'm a student.


Sono canadese.
I'm Canadian.


Sono del sud dell'Inghilterra.
I'm from the south of England.


Siamo in vacanza.
We're on holiday.


Siamo i proprietari.
We're the owners.


My name is...


Mi chiamo Brian Gallagher.
My name is Brian Gallagher.


Mi chiamo Olivia Green.
My name is Olivia Green.


Sono la signora Smith. Ho prenotato una stanza doppia per questa notte.
My name is Mrs Smith. I've booked a double room for tonight.


Il cognome è Morris...
My surname is Morris...


...e il nome è Emma.
...and my first name is Emma.


Si scrive M-O-R-R-I-S.
It's spelt M-O-R-R-I-S.



BUONO A SAPERSI!
Remember that the Italian alphabet is pronounced differently from the English alphabet. For more information on how to say letters of the alphabet in Italian, see page 204.

ASKING FOR INFORMATION

When you want to find something out about your accommodation, an easy way to ask questions is just to put È...? (Is...?) before what you want to know. Alternatively, you can simply make your voice go up at the end of the sentence.

Is it...?


È caro?
Is it expensive?


È un hotel moderno?
Is it a modern hotel?


È lontano?
Is it far?


La colazione è compresa nel prezzo?
Is breakfast included in the price?


Le spese sono comprese nell'affitto?
Are bills included in the rent?



You can use C'è...? in Italian to ask Is there...? and Ci sono...? to ask Are there...?.

Is there...?


C'è un posto per mangiare qualcosa qui vicino?
Is there anywhere near here where we can get something to eat?


C'è un ascensore?
Is there a lift?


C'è un balcone?
Is there a balcony?


Ci sono toilettes per disabili?
Are there disabled toilets?



Use cerco (I'm looking for) or cerchiamo (we're looking for) to ask where something is. cerco comes from the verb cercare (to look for).

I'm looking for...


Scusi, cerco il campeggio.
Excuse me, I'm looking for the campsite.


Cerco una pensione per stanotte.
I'm looking for a B&B for tonight.


Cerchiamo l'Hotel Bellini.
We're looking for the Hotel Bellini.



To get more specific information, you may need to ask Quale...? (What...?), Dove...? (Where...?) or A che ora...? (What time...?).

What...?


Qual è l'indirizzo del proprietario?
What's the landlord's address?


Qual è il numero dell'agenzia immobiliare?
What's the number for the letting agency?


Quale mi raccomanda?
Which one would You recommend?


Quali stanze hanno vista mare?
Which rooms have a sea view?



BUONO A SAPERSI!
quale works for all singular nouns, whether masculine or feminine. It becomes qual before a word beginning with a vowel, as in Qual è...? (What's...?).

Where...?


Dov'è il bar?
Where's the bar?


Dov'è la palestra?
Where's the gym?


Dove sono gli ascensori?
Where are the lifts?


Dove trovo una presa per il portatile?
Where can I plug in my laptop?


What time...?


A che ora è servita la cena?
What time's dinner?


A che ora chiudete il portone la sera?
What time do you lock the doors at night?


Entro che ora bisogna liberare la by?
What time do we have to vacate the room stanza?


Fino a che ora è servita la colazione?
What time do you serve breakfast till?


How much...?


Quanto viene una camera doppia a notte?
How much is a double room per night?


Quanto viene la pensione completa?
How much is full board?


Quanto verrebbe affittare un to rent an appartamento per tutto luglio?
How much would it be apartment for the whole of July?


How many...?


Quante camere con bagno vi left?
How many en-suite rooms have you got sono rimaste?


Quanti letti ci sono nella camera room?
How many beds are there in the family famigliare?


ASKING FOR PERMISSION

Often when you are staying in a hotel or other accommodation you will need to be able to ask whether you can do something. Use Posso...? (Can I ...?) or Possiamo...? (Can we...?) to ask if you can do something. These come from the verb potere (to be able). For more information on potere, see page 284.

Can I...?


Posso vedere la stanza?
Can I see the room?


Posso lasciare le valigie qui per minutes?
Can I leave my suitcases here for five cinque minuti?


Possiamo usare la piscina?
Can we use the pool?


Possiamo piantare la tenda qui?
Can we camp here?



You can use Si può...? to ask if something is okay, or possible.

Is it okay to...?


Si può parcheggiare qui?
Is it okay to park here?


Si può fumare in camera?
Is it okay to smoke in the room?


Si può mangiare fuori?
Is it possible to eat outside?


Do you mind if...?


Le dispiace se parcheggio la moment?
Do You mind if I park my car outside for a macchina qui fuori per un minuto?


Le dispiace se pago con la carta di credito?
Do You mind if I pay by credit card?


Le dispiace se prendiamo la next floor?
Do you mind if we take the room on the camera al piano di sopra?


If you want to ask someone if you may do something, you can also use È permesso..? (Am I allowed to...?) followed by the infinitive.
Am I allowed to...?


È permesso ricevere ospiti?
Am I allowed to have guests?


È permesso usare la griglia?
Are we allowed to use the barbecue?


È permesso usare il telefono?
May we use the phone?


Ci è permesso portare il cane?
Are we allowed to bring our dog?


SAYING WHAT YOU LIKE, DISLIKE, PREFER

When talking about what you like, use mi piace (I like) with singular nouns and mi piacciono with plural nouns. To say what you don't like, use non mi piace or non mi piacciono. These come from the verb piacere.

I like...


Mi piace cenare all'aperto.
I like having dinner outside.


Mi piacciono gli alberghi piccoli.
I like small hotels.


Mi piacciono i campeggi in montagna.
I like campsites in the mountains.


Mi piace tantissimo questa pensione.
I love this guest house.


I don't like...


Non mi piace questo albergo.
I don't like this hotel.


Non mi piace viaggiare in traghetto.
I don't like going on the ferry.


Non ci piace pianificare tutto in anticipo.
We don't like to plan everything in advance.


I hate...


Odio questo arredamento.
I hate this decor.


Odio le grandi catene alberghiere.
I hate big chain hotels.


Detesto non avere il bagno.
I hate not having a bathroom.



If you want to say what you prefer, use preferisco (I prefer) or preferirei (I'd prefer). These come from the verb preferire. For more information on -ire verbs like preferire, see page 268.

I prefer...


Preferisco questo hotel.
I prefer this hotel.


Preferisco stare presso una famiglia.
I prefer to stay with a family.


Preferiamo gli ostelli ai campeggi.
We prefer youth hostels to camp sites.


I'd rather...


Preferirei stare in centro.
I'd rather be in the town centre.


Preferiremmo abitare in campagna.
We'd rather live in the country.


Preferirei non dover far file.
I'd rather not have to queue.


Preferirei dividere un appartamento piuttosto che abitare da sola.
I'd rather share a flat than live on my own.


EXPRESSING OPINIONS

You may well be asked what you think of your accommodation. Whether it's perfect or not up to scratch, to say what you think you can use penso che (I think) or trovo che (I find) followed by the subjunctive. These come from the verbs pensare (to think) and trovare (to find). For more information on -are verbs, see page 268, and for the use of the subjunctive, see page 273.

I think...


Penso che la camera sia un po' piccola.
I think the bedroom's a bit small.


Penso che la casa sia molto accogliente.
I think the house is very welcoming.


Trovo che ci sia troppo rumore la notte.
I find there's too much noise at night.


Ho trovato il servizio eccellente.
I found the service excellent.


In my opinion...


A mio avviso, costa troppo per quello che è.
In my opinion, it costs too much for what it is.


Secondo me, fa proprio per noi.
In my opinion, it's just what we want.


Secondo me, la stanza è troppo piccola.
In my opinion, the room is too small.


A mio avviso, è completamente inaccettabile.
In my view, it's totally unacceptable.


MAKING SUGGESTIONS

If you would like to suggest that you do something, use posso (I can) followed by the infinitive and se vuole (if You like) - or se vuoi for a person you know well - at the end. posso comes from the verb potere (to be able). For more information on potere, see page 284.

I can..., if you like.


Posso darle conferma delle date domani, se vuole.
I can confirm the dates tomorrow, if You like.


Posso mandarle un acconto, se vuole.
I can send You a deposit, if You like.


Possiamo cercare un altro albergo, se vuoi.
We can look for another hotel, if you like.



If you wish to ask what someone would like you to do, you can use Vuole che...? (Would You like me to...?) or, more informally, Vuoi che...?, followed by a verb in the subjunctive, which you can find out more about on page 273.

Would you like me to...?


Vuole che paghi in contanti?
Would You like me to pay cash?


Vuole che le mostri la prenotazione?
Would You like me to show you my booking?


Vuoi che ti aiuti con le borse?
Would you like me to help you with your bags?


Vuole tenere i passaporti?
Would You like to keep our passports?


ASKING FOR SUGGESTIONS

You may want to ask for advice or a recommendation concerning your accommodation. To ask for advice, use Mi consiglia...? (Would You advise me to...?). This comes from the verb consigliare (to advise).

Would you advise me to...?


Mi consiglia di prenotare in anticipo?
Would You advise me to book in advance?


Mi consiglia di portare qualcosa to eat?
Would You advise me to bring something da mangiare?


Ci consiglia di portare dei sacchi
Would You advise us to bring sleeping a pelo?
 bags?


Would you recommend...?


Mi consiglierebbe questo hotel?
Would You recommend this hotel?


Mi consiglierebbe questa agenzia immobiliare?
Would You recommend this estate agency?


Ci consiglierebbe di affittare settimanalmente?
Would You recommend that we rent by the week?


Ci consiglierebbe di prendere un appartamento in città?
Would You recommend us to take a flat in town?


SAYING WHAT YOU HAVE TO DO

If you want to say that you have to do something with regard to your accommodation in Italian, you use devo (I have to) or dovrei (I ought to), from the verb dovere (to have to). For more information on dovere, see page 281.

I have to...


Devo prendere nota dell'indirizzo dell'albergo.
I have to write down the address of the hotel.


Devo passare alla reception per pagare.
I have to go to reception to pay.


Dobbiamo partire domattina alle sei.
We have to leave at six tomorrow morning.



buono a sapersi!
The word domattina is a contraction of domani (tomorrow) and mattina (morning).

I ought to...


Dovrei scaricare la macchina.
I ought to unpack the car.


Dovrei fare il bucato.
I ought to do a load of washing.


Dovremmo alzarci entro le sette di mattina.
We ought to be up by seven am.


Dovremmo avere un doppione delle chiavi.
We ought to have a spare set of keys.



In Italian you can tell somebody what you need by using ho bisogno di (I need).

I need...


Ho bisogno di una culla.
I need a cot.


Ho bisogno di telefonare in Scozia.
I need to call Scotland.


Abbiamo bisogno di una camera al piano terra.
We need a room on the ground floor.



You can use Devo ...? (Do I have to...?) followed by the infinitive, or Bisogna che...? (Do I need to...?) followed by the verb in the subjunctive to ask about what you have to do. For more information about the subjunctive, see page 273.

Do I have to...?


Devo lasciare la chiave alla reception quando esco?
Do I have to leave the key at reception when I go out?


Devo passare alla reception per pagare?
Do I have to go to reception to pay?


Dobbiamo avvertirvi quando lasciamo l'albergo?
Do we have to let you know when we leave the hotel?


Do I need to...?


Bisogna prenotare?
Do I need to book?


Bisogna che faccia le pulizie nell'appartamento prima di partire?
Do I need to clean the flat before leaving?


Bisogna che portiamo dei sacchi a pelo?
Do we need to bring sleeping bags?


Quando bisogna liberare la camera?
When do I have to vacate the room?


TALKING ABOUT YOUR PLANS

When you are talking about your plans to stay somewhere, you can use the future tense or the present tense in Italian. For more information on the future and present tenses, see page 271.

I'll...


Affitterò un appartamento per le prime tre settimane.
I'll rent a flat for the first three weeks.


Arriverò al campeggio di sera.
I'll arrive at the campsite in the evening.


Trovo un albergo quando sono là.
I'll find a hotel when I get there.


I'm going to...


Mi fermo a Parma.
I'm going to stay in Parma.


Affitterò uno chalet in montagna.
I'm going to rent a chalet in the mountains.


Faremo campeggio.
We're going to camp.


I'm staying...


Sto in un ostello per la prima settimana.
I'm staying in a youth hostel the first week.


Poi sto in un albergo.
After that I'm staying in a hotel.


Sono ospite presso una famiglia night.
I'm staying with a host family the first la prima notte.



If you want to say that you intend to do something, you can use ho intenzione di or conto di (I intend to).

I intend to...


Ho intenzione di prendere un appartamento in affitto.
I intend to rent a flat.


Ho intenzione di trovare un agriturismo.
I intend to find an agriturismo.


Conto di fermarmi fino a venerdì.
I intend to stay until Friday.


Contiamo di partire domani dopo colazione.
We intend to leave after breakfast tomorrow.


COMPLAINING

Unfortunately the service you get in your accommodation may not always be perfect. A very simple way of complaining is to say what the problem is using c'è (there is) and ci sono (there are), or non c'è (there isn't) and non ci sono (there aren't).

There's...


C'è troppo rumore.
There's too much noise.


C'è uno spandimento sul soffitto.
There's a leak in the ceiling.


Ci sono scarafaggi nell'appartamento.
There are cockroaches in the flat.


There isn't...


Non c'è acqua calda.
There isn't any hot water.


Non ci sono asciugamani puliti in camera.
There aren't any clean towels in the room.


La stanza non ha un balcone.
The room doesn't have a balcony.


L'appartamento non ha l'aria condizionata.
The flat doesn't have air-conditioning.



You can also use the verb essere (to be) to describe what the problem is.

It's...


L'appartamento è sporco.
The flat's dirty.


L'hotel è troppo rumoroso.
This hotel's too noisy.


L'acqua della piscina non è molto pulita.
The water in the swimming pool isn't very clean.


Qua fa troppo caldo.
It's too hot in here.



BUONO A SAPERSI!
Remember that with most expressions such as it's hot or it's cold in Italian, you should use the verb fare (to do), not essere (to be).

LISTEN OUT FOR
Here are some key phrases which you are likely to hear when you're looking for somewhere to stay.


Che tipo di alloggio cercate?
What type of accommodation are you looking for?


A che nome è la prenotazione?
Whose name is the booking in?


Per quante notti?
For how many nights?


Per quante persone?
For how many people?


La colazione è compresa nel prezzo.
Breakfast is included in the price.


Mi fa vedere il passaporto, per favore?
Can I see your passport, please?


Siamo al completo.
We're full.


Va pagata una cauzione di 300 euro.
There's a 300 euro deposit.


Mi date un recapito telefonico?
What number can we contact you on?


Non sono ammessi i cani.
We don't allow dogs.


Come desidera pagare?
How would You like to pay?


Compili questo modulo, per cortesia.
Please fill in this form.


Una firma qui, prego.
Please sign here.


Come si scrive il suo nome, per favore?
How do you spell your name, please?



Lifestyle Tips
• It is quite common for Italians to live in rented accommodation, rather than to own a property. There are different types of contract: if you are renting a place for a longish period, but haven't moved to Italy in any kind of permanent way, you are likely to be offered a contratto per non residenti (contract for non-residents).
• Short-term rented property is normally furnished (ammobiliato), while long-term rented accommodation is usually unfurnished (non ammobiliato).
• It is less common in Italy to share a flat with other tenants, unless you are a student. However, it is possible to rent una camera ammobiliata (a furnished room) in a flat or a house.
• Properties are described by size in square metres and number of rooms, for example appartamento ammobiliato di 80 m2, salotto, cucina abitabile, camera da letto, cameretta, bagno con doccia, balcone, cantina (80 m2 furnished flat, sitting room, dining kitchen, double bedroom, single bedroom, bathroom with shower, balcony, storage cellar).
• A studio apartment is called un monolocale in Italian, literally a one-room flat, with sleeping and cooking facilities in the one room. They can be quite smart, and are often rented by professionals who need to be in a town from time to time, or by visitors who prefer them to hotels.
• If a flat is described as being in a stabile d'epoca, it means it is in a period building.
• If you are looking to rent for a longer period, you will find adverts in the local paper and need to contact the local agenzie immobiliari (estate agents), who will normally charge a commission.
• As a tourist, you may be staying in un albergo, una pensione, un bed&breakfast (now quite common), un agriturismo (where guests eat the farm's own produce), un appartamento or una villa.










Buon appetito! - Enjoy your meal!
If you're going out for a meal in Italy either in a local trattoria or in a fancy restaurant, the phrases in this unit will give you the confidence to talk to the waiter and chat with your Italian friends in easy, natural Italian. We'll also give you some tips on getting advice about what to order, and a few key phrases waiters are likely to use.
MAKING ARRANGEMENTS

If you want to make arrangements such as where and when to meet when you go out for a meal with Italian-speaking people, you can start by asking Dove...? (Where...?) and A che ora...? (What time...?).

Where...?


Dove andiamo a mangiare?
Where shall we go to eat?


Dove ci troviamo?
Where shall we meet?


Dove volete che vi venga a prendere?
Where do you want me to pick you up?


What time...?


A che ora ci troviamo?
What time shall we meet?


A che ora arriva Giulia?
What time is Giulia going to get here?


Per che ora hai prenotato il tavolo?
What time did you book the table for?



If you want to check that the arrangements suit your friends or colleagues, you can use Va bene se...? (Does it suit you if...?).

Does it suit you if...?


Va bene se andiamo fuori a cena domani sera?
Does it suit you if we go out for a meal tomorrow night?


Va bene se ci troviamo alle sette?
Does it suit you if we meet up at seven?


Va bene se ci incontriamo là?
Does is suit you if we meet there?


Vi andrebbe meglio sabato sera?
Would Saturday evening suit you better?


It would suit me best to...


Per me andrebbe meglio incontrarci là.
It would suit me best to meet there.


Per me andrebbe meglio andarci per le otto.
It'd suit me best to be there for eight.


Per noi andrebbe meglio andarci in macchina.
It'd suit us better to go there by car.



To check what is the best thing to do for others, use È meglio...? (Had we better...?).

Had we better...?


È meglio prenotare?
Had we better book?


È meglio arrivare presto?
Had we better arrive early?


Sarebbe meglio cambiare la prenotazione?
Had we better change our reservation?


ASKING FOR INFORMATION

When you're going out for a meal you'll need to ask for various pieces of information, such as where things are and how much they cost. Dove...? (Where...?), A che ora...? (What time...?) and Quanto viene...? (How much...?) are very useful to know.

Where is...?


Dov'è il ristorante?
Where is the restaurant?


Scusi, dov'è la cassa?
Excuse me, where is the till?


Scusi, dov'è il bagno?
Excuse me, where is the toilet?


What time...?


A che ora aprite?
What time do you open?


A che ora chiudete?
What time do you close?


Fino a che ora si può mangiare?
What time do you serve till?


How much is...?


Quanto viene una bottiglia di vino locale?
How much is a bottle of local wine?


Quanto viene un'insalata?
How much is a side salad?


Quant'è il menù turistico?
How much is the set menu?


What is...?


Cosa c'è nella "ribollita"?
What's a "ribollita" made of?


Con cosa è servito?
What does it come with?


Che c'è come dessert?
What is there for dessert?



Many of the questions you will be asking can be answered by yes or no. To ask this kind of question, you can either put è before what you want to know or alternatively you can raise the tone of your voice at the end of the sentence.

Is it...?


È caro come ristorante?
Is it an expensive restaurant?


È un piatto tipico regionale?
Is it a traditional local dish?


È un piatto vegetariano?
Is it a vegetarian dish?


È compreso nel menù da 15 euro?
Is it included in the €15 set menu?


È aperto di domenica questo ristorante?
Is this restaurant open on Sundays?


ASKING FOR THINGS

When you're out in a restaurant you will need to be able to ask for what you want. If you want to ask for something in Italian, use vorrei (I'd like) or vorremmo (we'd like). vorrei and vorremmo come from the verb volere (to want). For more information on volere, see page 285.

I'd like...


Vorrei del pane, per favore.
I'd like some bread, please.


Vorrei una caraffa d'acqua, per favore.
I'd like a jug of water, please.


Vorremmo ordinare, per favore.
We'd like to order, please.


Ancora del pane, per favore.
We'd like some more bread, please.


Un tavolo per due, per favore.
A table for two, please.


Il conto, per favore.
The bill, please.



BUONO A SAPERSI!
When the waiter approaches and you want to say that you're not ready to order, use Ci (or Mi) dà ancora un minuto, per favore? (Can we (or I) have another minute, please?). Alternatively, if your order has already been taken, you can say abbiamo (or ho) già ordinato, grazie (someone's already taken our (or my) order, thanks).


To talk about what you want to order, use prendo (I'll have). prendo comes from the verb prendere.

I'll have...


Come antipasto, prendo il prosciutto crudo.
As a starter, I'll have the Parma ham, please.


Come dolce, prendo la mousse di cioccolato.
For dessert, I'll have the chocolate mousse.


Da bere prendiamo dell'acqua minerale frizzante.
We'll have sparkling water to drink.


Non so cosa prendere.
I don't know what to have.


E per secondo, la cotoletta alla cotoletta alla milanese.
And for my main course, I'll have the milanese.


Per me lo stesso.
I'll have the same.



When you want to find out if something is available, use Avete...? (Have you got...?). avete comes from the verb avere (to have). For more information on avere, see page 279.

Have you got...?


Avete un menù per bambini?
Have you got a children's menu?


Avete un seggiolone?
Have you got a high chair?


Avete un tavolo all'aperto?
Do you have a table outside?


Avete la carta dei vini?
Do you have a wine list?



If you want to ask someone, for example the waiter, for something in Italian, use Mi porta...? (Can I have ...?) or Mi porterebbe...? (Could I have ...?). porta and porterebbe come from the verb portare. For more information on -are verbs like portare, see page 268.

Can I have...?


Mi porta un'altra forchetta, per cortesia?
Can I have another fork, please?


Mi porta la lista dei dolci, per favore?
Can I have the dessert menu, please?


Mi porterebbe dell'olio d'oliva, per favore?
Could I have some olive oil, please?


Ci porterebbe del pane, per favore?
Could we have some bread, please?


Mi fa il conto, per favore.
Can I have the bill, please?



If you want to ask the waiter to do something for you, use Potrebbe...? If you want to ask someone such as a friend or a close colleague to do something for you, use Potresti...? (Could you ...?) instead. potrebbe and potresti come from the verb potere. For more information on potere, see page 284.

Could you...?


Potrebbe portarmi del pane, per favore?
Could You bring me some bread, please?


Potrebbe portarci i caffè?
Could You bring us our coffee, please?


Potrebbe magari tornare tra cinque minuti?
Could You possibly come back in five minutes?


Potresti passarmi il sale, per favore?
Could you pass me the salt, please?


Le posate sono sporche. Ce le cambia, per favore?
The knives and forks are dirty. Could You change them, please?


Would you mind...?


Le spiace chiudere la finestra?
Would You mind closing the window?


Le spiace se mi siedo qui?
Would You mind if I sit here?


Ti dispiace se ci scambiamo di posto?
Would you mind swapping seats with me?


Le dispiace se le do i cappotti?
Would You mind taking our coats?


SAYING WHAT YOU WANT TO DO

If you want to say what you'd like to do when you're eating out, use vorrei (I'd like) followed by the infinitive. vorrei comes from the verb volere (to want). For more information on volere see page 285.

I'd like...


Vorrei ordinare, per favore.
I'd like to order, please.


Vorrei vedere la lista dei dolci.
I'd like to see the dessert menu.


Vorrei riservare un tavolo, per favore.
I'd like to book a table, please.


Vorremmo ordinare del vino, per favore.
We'd like to order some wine, please.


Vorremmo pagare con la carta di credito.
We'd like to pay by credit card.



You can also say what you fancy having in Italian by using ho voglia di (I fancy), followed by the infinitives prendere (to have) or mangiare (to eat).

I fancy...


Ho voglia di prendere la grigliata
I fancy the mixed grill. mista.


Ho voglia di mangiare cinese, per
I fancy Chinese food for a change. cambiare.


Non ho voglia di prendere l'antipasto.
I don't really feel like a starter.


SAYING WHAT YOU LIKE, DISLIKE, PREFER

When you're out wining and dining you will probably want to talk about what you like or dislike, especially when it comes to food. To say what you like, you can use mi piace (I like) with singular nouns and mi piacciono with plural nouns. If you want to say that you don't like something, you can use non mi piace or non mi piacciono.

I like...


Mi piace il formaggio.
I like cheese.


Mi piacciono gli asparagi.
I like asparagus.


Mi piacciono tantissimo i frutti di mare.
I love seafood.


Ti piacciono i carciofi?
Do you like artichokes?


Le piace la cucina cinese?
Do You like Chinese food?


I don't like...


Non mi piace il whisky.
I don't like whisky.


Non mi piacciono le olive.
I don't like olives.


Non mi piace tanto la cucina messicana.
I'm not too keen on Mexican food.


Non le piacciono i funghi?
Don't You like mushrooms?


Odio la trippa.
I can't stand tripe.



BUONO A SAPERSI!
In Italian when you talk about things that you like in general, you need to say mi piace il formaggio (I like the cheese), non mi piacciono le olive (I don't like the olives) instead of I like cheese, I don't like olives.


If you want to say what you prefer, use preferisco (I prefer). This comes from the verb preferire (to prefer). For more information on -ire verbs like preferire, see page 268.

I'd rather...


Preferisco assaggiare una specialità locale.
I'd rather try a local dish.


Preferisco se facciamo alla romana.
I'd rather we split the bill.


Preferisco prendere un antipasto piuttosto che il dolce.
I'd rather have a starter than a dessert.


Preferiresti andare da un'altra parte?
Would you rather go somewhere else?



If you have special dietary needs, you can mention them by using sono (I'm).

I'm...


Sono allergico alle uova.
I'm allergic to eggs.


Sono vegetariana.
I'm a vegetarian.


ASKING FOR SUGGESTIONS

If you want to ask the waiter to recommend something, you can use Cosa mi consiglia? (What do You recommend?). If you are asking a friend or a colleague, you can say Cosa mi consigli?.

What do you recommend...?


Cosa mi consiglia come antipasto?
What do You recommend as a starter?


Cosa mi consigli di prendere?
What would you recommend me to have?


Che vino ci consiglia?
Which wine do You recommend?


Ci consiglia una specialità del posto?
Can You recommend a local dish?



If you want to ask whether you should do something, use Crede che dovrei...? or, more informally, Credi che dovrei...? (Do you think I should...?).

Do you think I should...?


Credi che dovrei prendere la torta?
Do you think I should have the cake?


Credi che dovrei assaggiare
Do you think I should try the eel? l'anguilla?


Crede che dovrei prendere del vino rosso con questo piatto?
Do You think I should have red wine with this dish?


Credi che dovrei lasciare la mancia?
Do you think I should leave a tip?


MAKING SUGGESTIONS

You may wish to make a suggestion to your colleagues or friends in Italian. One way of doing this is to use potremmo (we could). This comes from the verb potere. For more information on potere, see page 284.

We could...


Potremmo sederci qui.
We could sit here.


Potremmo prendere solo un'insalata.
We could just have a salad.


Potremmo sederci fuori, se preferite.
We could sit outside, if you prefer.



If you want to make a suggestion using let's, you can use the noi form of the imperative in Italian. For more information on the imperative, see page 273.

Let's...


Sediamoci fuori.
Let's sit outside.


Prendiamo le tagliatelle.
Let's have the tagliatelle.


Saltiamo gli antipasti.
Let's not bother with a starter.



If you are asking someone whether they feel like having or doing something, use Che ne dici di...? or, if don't know them well, Che ne dice di...? (Do You fancy...?). If you are talking to more than one person use Che ne dite di...?. You can also use Ti va...?, Le va...? or Vi va...?.

Do you fancy...?


Che ne dice di un caffè?
Do You fancy a coffee?


Che ne dice di ordinare ancora
Do You fancy ordering another bottle? una bottiglia?


Che ne dite di prendere due porzioni in quattro?
Do you fancy sharing two portions between the four of us?


Ti va di provare la minestra?
Do you fancy trying the soup?


Vi va di prendere un dolce?
Do you fancy a dessert?


You can have...


Può prendere un antipasto, se vuole.
You can have a starter, if you like.


Può prendere un digestivo, se vuole.
You can have a liqueur, if you like.


Può prendere il menù a 20 euro, se vuole.
You can have the €20 set menu, if you like.



Another very simple way of making suggestions is to ask a question using the verb in the present tense followed by a question mark. For more information on the present tense, see page 271.

Shall we...?


Prendiamo prima un aperitivo?
Shall we have a drink first?


Ordiniamo ancora una bottiglia?
Shall we order another bottle?


Chiediamo il conto?
Shall we ask for the bill?


COMPLAINING

You may wish to complain if the service or the food are not to your satisfaction. You can do this by saying Scusi, ma... (Sorry but ...).

Sorry, but...


Scusi, ma la mia minestra è
Sorry, but my soup is cold. fredda.


Scusi, ma c'è carne nel sugo. Io sono vegetariano.
Sorry, but there's meat in the sauce. I'm vegetarian.


Scusi, ma non è quello che avevo ordinato.
I'm afraid that's not what I ordered.


Scusi, ma ce l'ha messo in conto due volte.
I'm afraid You've charged us twice for it.


Mi scusi, ma il vino sa di tappo.
I'm sorry, but the wine is corked.


LISTEN OUT FOR
Here are some key phrases which you are likely to hear when you're eating out.


Sei libera sabato?
Are you free on Saturday?


Passo a prenderti?
Do you want me to pick you up?


Avete prenotato?
Have you got a reservation?


Mi dispiace, siamo al completo.
Sorry, we're full.


Di qua, prego.
This way please.


Se mi vuole seguire.
Follow me please.


Ecco la lista dei vini.
Here's the wine list.


Il piatto del giorno è sulla tabella.
Today's special is on the board.


Vi consiglio gli asparagi.
I'd recommend the asparagus.


È una specialità della zona.
It's a local speciality.


Volete ordinare?
Are you ready to order?


Volete prima un aperitivo?
Would you like a drink first?


Cosa bevete?
What will you have to drink?


Vi porto una mezza porzione?
Shall I bring you a half portion?


Il pesce è appena pescato.
The fish is really fresh.


Desidera del formaggio o un dolce?
Would You like the cheese board or a dessert?


Purtroppo l'abbiamo finito.
I'm afraid there's none left.


È il dolce della casa.
This dessert is our speciality.


Desidera qualcos'altro?
Would You like anything else?


Arrivo subito.
I'll be right with you.


Lo porto subito.
I'll bring it right away.


Siete miei ospiti.
It's on me.


Offre la casa.
This is on the house.



Lifestyle Tips
• To attract the waiter's attention, you just need to say Scusi?, Cameriere! (Waiter!) or Cameriera! (Waitress!).
• Unless you're having a pizza, you'll always be given del pane (bread) with your meal. You'll be charged for it as part of il coperto (the cover charge). Most Italian people wouldn't contemplate having a meal without bread.
• Dishes such as spaghetti, lasagne and risotto come under the heading Primi (First courses) on restaurant menus. Meat and fish come under Secondi (Mains). These don't usually come with much in the way of vegetables - these have to be ordered separately. They come under Contorni (Side dishes).
• While service charges are usually included on restaurant bills, it is still very common to leave una mancia (a tip) of between five and ten per cent, especially if the service has been good. In bars, people tend to leave a few centesimi (cents) as a tip.
• Children are welcome in Italian restaurants, even in the evening. If you need a high chair, you can ask Avete un seggiolone?
• After serving you, waiters will often say Buon appetito! (Enjoy your meal!). You should reply Grazie!. If someone you are eating with, or another diner in the restaurant says this, the correct response is: Grazie, altrettanto! (The same to you!).










Buon divertimento! - Have a good time!
The phrases in this unit will help you to feel confident in all kinds of social situations in Italian. Whether you are going to a concert, the theatre or cinema, going to watch a sports match, going to a bar, or giving or being invited to a party, these phrases will ensure that your Italian sounds natural.
MAKING SUGGESTIONS

When you're planning to go out with Italian-speaking friends or colleagues you may want to suggest what you could do. One good way of making a suggestion is to use possiamo (we can) or potremmo (we could) followed by se vuoi or, more formally, se vuole (if You like). These are from the verb potere (to be able). For more information on potere, see page 284.

We can...


Possiamo andare a bere qualcosa,
We can go and have a drink, if you like. se vuoi.



Possiamo andare a teatro, se vuole.
We can go to the theatre, if You like.


Potremmo andare a un concerto,
We could go to a concert, if you like. se vuoi.







Another way of making a suggestion in Italian is by using the imperative. For more information about the imperative, see page 273.

Let's...


Andiamo a bere qualcosa.
Let's go out for a drink.


Vediamo se riusciamo a trovare biglietti per la partita di sabato.
Let's see if we can get tickets for the match on Saturday.


Sediamoci qui.
Let's sit here.


Ordiniamo ancora una bottiglia di vino?
Shall we order another bottle of wine?



You can also ask someone what they would like to do by asking Vuoi...? or, more formally, Vuole...? (Do You want to...?).

Do you want to...?


Vuoi andare a prendere un caffè abato pomeriggio?
Do you want to go for a coffee on Saturdays afternoon?


Vuoi andare al bar dopo il cinema?
Do you want to go to a bar after the film?


Faccio una festa. Vuoi venire?
I'm having a party. Do you want to come?


Volete che ci vediamo al bar domani sera?
Do you want to meet in the bar tomorrow night?


Vuole cenare da noi domani sera?
Would You like to come for dinner tomorrow night?


Volete passare la notte da noi?
Do you want to stay the night with us?



BUONO A SAPERSI!
When talking about tonight and tomorrow night, use questa sera or stasera and domani sera. The word notte (night) is only used to refer to very late at night.

Do you fancy...?


Ti va di venire al concerto?
Do you fancy coming to the concert?


Ti va di prendere un caffè da qualche parte?
Do you fancy going for a coffee somewhere?


Hai voglia di andare a bere qualcosa stasera?
Do you fancy going for a drink tonight?


Avete voglia di andare al cinema?
Do you fancy going to the cinema?


TALKING ABOUT YOUR PLANS

If you want to talk about the plans you've made for social activities, you can use the future tense or the present tense. For information about these tenses, see page 271.

I'm going to...


Inviterò degli amici per il mio compleanno.
I'm going to invite some friends over for my birthday.


Vado alla festa di Lorenzo sabato prossimo.
I'm going to Lorenzo's party next Saturday.


Ceniamo dai nostri amici stasera.
We're going to have dinner at our friends' house tonight.


Are you going to...?


Inviterai tanta gente?
Are you going to invite many people?


Va alla festa di Susie?
Are You going to go to Susie's party?


Quando riuscite a venire?
When will you be able to come?



If your plans are not yet fixed, you can use forse (perhaps).

Perhaps...


Forse ci andrò.
Perhaps I'll go.


Forse bevo ancora qualcosa.
Perhaps I'll have another drink.


Forse faccio una festa.
I may have a party.


ASKING FOR INFORMATION

When you're planning to go out socially, you will need to ask for some information about what's available or what's on. You can use C'è...? (Is there...?) or Ci sono...? (Are there...?).

Is there... ?


C'è un cinema qui?
Is there a cinema here?


C'è una partita di calcio oggi pomeriggio?
Is there a football match on this afternoon?


Ci sono concerti gratuiti questo fine settimana?
Are there any free concerts on this weekend?



To ask someone whether they have something, for example, in a bar or at the theatre, use Avete...? (Do you have...?).

Do you have...?


Avete due posti in platea?
Do you have two seats in the stalls?


Avete un programma?
Do you have any programmes?


Avete birra alla spina?
Do you have draught beer?



To obtain specific information, for example, what time something starts or finishes or how much it costs, you can use phrases such as A che ora...? (What time...?), Quanto costa...? (How much...?) and Quanto...? (How long...?).

What time...?


A che ora comincia il film?
What time does the film start?


A che ora finisce il concerto?
What time does the concert finish?


Per che ora è prenotato il taxi?
What time is the taxi ordered for?


How much...?


Quanto costa un biglietto per lo spettacolo di stasera?
How much is a ticket for this evening's performance?


Quanto costa il programma?
How much is it for a programme?


Quanto costa l'ingresso?
How much does it cost to get in?


How long...?


Quanto dura l'opera?
How long is the opera?


Quanto restate in questo bar?
How long are you going to be in this bar?


Quanto ci si mette per arrivare allo stadio?
How long does it take to get to the stadium?


What...?


Che genere di musica fanno?
What kind of music do they play?


In che bar andate?
What bar are you going to?


Per quale spettacolo avete biglietti?
Which showing have You got tickets for?


Cosa danno al cinema?
What's on at the cinema at the moment?


ASKING FOR THINGS

When you're asking for things, the easiest way to say what you want is to use vorrei (I'd like) or vorremmo (we'd like). vorrei and vorremmo are from the verb volere (to want). For more information on volere, see page 285.

I'd like...


Vorrei un Campari, per favore.
I'd like a Campari, please.


Vorrei due biglietti per lo spettacolo di stasera.
I'd like two tickets for tonight's show.



Vorrei un biglietto per la partita del Milan.
I'd like a ticket for the Milan match.


Vorrei un posto in galleria.
I'd like a seat in the upper circle.


Vorremmo il conto, per favore.
We'd like the bill, please.


I'll have...


Prendo un tè al latte, senza limone.
I'll have a cup of tea.


Prendo un gin tonic.
I'll have a G & T.


Prendiamo un'altra bottiglia di vino bianco della casa.
We'll have another bottle of house white.



To ask someone for something, use Mi dà...? (Can I have...?) or Ci dà...? (Can we have...?).

Can I have...?


Mi dà una caraffa d'acqua?
Can I have a jug of water?


Mi dà un biglietto per lo spettacolo?
Can I have a ticket for the show?


Ci dà quattro posti in platea, per favore?
Can we have four seats in the stalls, please?


SAYING WHAT YOU LIKE, DISLIKE, PREFER

When you're out socializing you will probably want to say what you like or dislike. To say what you like, you can use mi piace (I like) with singular nouns or mi piacciono with plural nouns. If you want to say that you don't like something, use non mi piace or non mi piacciono (I don't like).

I like...


Mi piace la musica techno.
I like techno music.


Mi piace andare al cinema.
I like going to the cinema.


Mi piacciono i film dell'orrore.
I like horror films.


Adoro l'opera.
I love opera.


I don't like...


Non mi piace la birra alla spina.
I don't like draught beer.


Non mi piace andare a teatro.
I don't like going to the theatre.


Non mi piacciono le commedie musicali.
I don't like musicals.


Odio l'operetta.
I can't stand operetta.



To talk about what you prefer, use preferisco (I prefer). preferisco comes from the verb preferire. For more information on -ire verbs like preferire, see page 268.

I prefer...


Preferisco il cinema d'essai.
I prefer arthouse films.


Preferisco andarci un altro giorno.
I'd prefer to go another day.


Preferisco il vino alla birra.
I prefer wine to beer.


Preferisco vedere un film piuttosto che un concerto.
I'd rather see a film than go to a concert.


Preferisci il cinema italiano o quello americano?
Which do you prefer, Italian or American films?



If you want to ask other people what they like, use Ti piace..? or Ti piacciono...? (Do you like...?) for someone you know well or for someone young. Use Le piace...? or Le piacciono...? for someone you do not know well and Vi piace...? or Vi piacciono...? for more than one person.

Do you like...?


Ti piace il calcio?
Do you like football?


Le piacciono le commedie musicali?
Do You like musicals?


Vi piace andare al cinema?
Do you like going to the cinema?



If you want to say that you enjoyed a play, film and so on, you can say mi è piaciuto (I enjoyed).

I enjoyed...


Mi è piaciuto il film.
I enjoyed the film.


Mi è piaciuto molto.
I really enjoyed it.


Non ci è piaciuto per niente.
We didn't enjoy it at all.


Ti è piaciuto?
Did you enjoy it?


Le è piaciuta l'opera?
Did You enjoy the opera?


EXPRESSING OPINIONS

If you want to express your opinion of something you've seen or of somewhere you've been, you can use penso che and credo che (I think) to say what you think. These are followed by the subjunctive or the future tense. For more information on the subjunctive and the future tense, see pages 273 and 271.

I think...


Penso che ti piacerà.
I think you'll like it.


Penso che sia una splendida attrice.
I think she is a fantastic actress.


Credo che vinceranno.
I think they'll win.


Credo sia un buon film.
I think it's a good film.


Non pensa che la commedia fosse un po' troppo lunga?
Don't You think the play was a bit long?


In my opinion...


Secondo me Spielberg è un regista formidabile.
In my opinion, Spielberg is a wonderful director.


Secondo me questa sala concerti non ha uguali.
In my opinion, this concert hall is second to none.


Secondo me la fine lasciava molto a desiderare.
In my view, the ending was very weak.


What do you think of...?


Cosa pensa dei suoi film?
What do You think of his films?


Cosa pensi del rap?
What do you think of rap music?


Che te ne pare di questo bar?
What do you make of this bar?



If you want to agree or disagree with someone, you can say sono d'accordo (I agree) or non sono d'accordo (I don't agree).

I agree...


Sono d'accordo con te.
I agree with you.


Sono d'accordo con lei.
I agree with You.


Sono completamente d'accordo con quello che dice.
I totally agree with what You say.


No, non sono d'accordo.
No, I don't agree.


Non sono affatto d'accordo.
I don't agree at all.


ASKING FOR PERMISSION

When you're out, you may want to ask someone if it's okay for you to do something. One useful way of asking for permission is to use Posso...? (Can I...?) or Possiamo...?  (Can we...?). posso and possiamo are from the verb potere (to be able). For more information on potere, see page 284.

Can I...?


Posso sedermi dove voglio?
Can I sit where I like?


Posso pagare con la carta?
Can I pay by card?


Posso prendere questa sedia?
Can I take this chair?


Possiamo sederci fuori?
Can we sit outside?


Possiamo fumare qui?
Can we smoke here?


Do you mind if...?


Le dispiace se ci sediamo qua?
Do You mind if we sit here?


Vi dispiace se mi metto qui con voi?
Do you mind if I join you?


Le dà fastidio se fumo?
Do You mind if I smoke?


LISTEN OUT FOR
Here are some key phrases which you are likely to hear when you're going out.


Dove vuole sedersi?
Where would You like to sit?


Per quante persone?
How many people?


Biglietto, per favore.
Can I see your ticket, please?


Vuole comprare un programma?
Would You like to buy a programme?


Le dispiace se ci scambiamo di posto?
Would You mind swapping places?


Sei libera domani?
Are you free tomorrow?


La settimana prossima ho da fare.
I'm busy next week.


Quando ti andrebbe bene?
When would be a good time for you?


Cosa prende?
What can I get You?


Ti offro da bere.
Let me get you a drink.


Offro io.
This is on me.


Ti sei divertito stasera?
Did you have a good time tonight?


Grazie dell'invito.
Thank you for inviting me.


Grazie, non c'era bisogno.
Thank you, you shouldn't have.



Lifestyle Tips
In a café or bar:
• If you want a quick coffee you can stand at the bar. You pay less than if you are served at a table. On their way to work Italians call in for coffee, often accompanied by una pasta (a cake) or un cornetto (a croissant).
• Sometimes you have to begin by paying for what you're going to have alla cassa (at the cashdesk) and then go to the bar with your scontrino (receipt). It's worth checking if this is what people are doing. Otherwise you may end up waiting at the bar, only to be sent off to la cassa.
• If you're going to sit down, the waiter will come to you. In small towns, the waiter will just leave lo scontrino (the bill) on your table, and you pay when you're ready.
• If you ask for un caffè, you will be given an espresso. It is worth remembering that the coffee you get in Italy is not always the same as the one you might be used to at home. For example, un cappuccino in Italy is much smaller than the version usually served outside Italy.
• You need to specify that you want your tea with milk, otherwise it will be served black or with lemon. Ask for un tè al latte.
• If you order un aperitivo (an aperitif), you will probably be served some snacks to go with your drink.
• Italian people don't really buy rounds. Someone will offer to pay if it's two people or a small group. In a larger group, everybody will chip in.
• Expressions for Cheers! in Italian include Salute! and Cin Cin! To one person you know well, say Alla tua!. If you want to make a toast, say Facciamo un brindisi!
• When you leave a restaurant don't forget to take your ricevuta fiscale (receipt). You are required by law to do this!
At somebody's house:
• You may be invited a cena (to dinner), a pranzo (to lunch), or sometimes just per l'aperitivo (for a pre-dinner drink). This is a handy way of inviting someone without making a night of it.
• When invited to someone's house for dinner, Italian people usually bring patisserie, chocolates, or flowers rather than wine. If an Italian-speaking person brings you a gift, you can say Grazie, non c'era bisogno (thank you, you shouldn't have).
At the cinema:
• New films come out on a Friday (venerdì) in Italy. There are cinema di prima visione where new films are shown first. After that they go to the cinema di seconda visione.










Buona giornata! - - Have a good time! Have a nice day!
If you're planning to see the sights in an Italian city, the phrases in this unit will give you the confidence to ask where you can go, what you can do there and how much it will cost using natural Italian.
SAYING WHAT YOU WANT TO DO

You may need to be able to say what you'd like to do in Italian. To do this, you can use vorrei (I'd like). vorrei comes from the verb volere (to want). For more information on volere, see page 285.

I'd like to...


Vorrei salire sul campanile.
I'd like to go up the tower.


Vorrei fare delle foto di questo quadro, se si può.
I'd like to take some pictures of this painting, if that's ok.


Vorremmo andare alla cattedrale con l'autobus.
We'd like to take the bus to the cathedral.


Vorremmo visitare la mostra d'arte.
We'd like to see the art exhibition.




You may also want to show your enthusiasm about doing something. To say I'd love to, you can use mi piacerebbe tantissimo followed by a verb in the infinitive.

I'd love to...


Mi piacerebbe tantissimo visitare le grotte.
I'd love to see the caves.


Mi piacerebbe tantissimo portare i bambini a Gardaland.
I'd love to take the kids to Gardaland.


Mi piacerebbe tantissimo passare una serata al Lido.
I'd love to spend an evening at the Lido.


Le piacerebbe tantissimo visitare Gubbio.
She'd love to see Gubbio.


TALKING ABOUT YOUR PLANS

It is very likely that you will want to talk about what you are planning to do on your trip. In English we often say I'm going to to talk about the future. To say that you're going to do something in Italian, you can use the future tense. It is also quite common to use the present tense. For more information on the future and the present tenses, see page 271.

I'm going to...


Andrò a visitare il Castello Sforzesco.
I'm going to visit the Sforza Castle.


Telefonerò per informarmi se è aperto la domenica.
I'm going to phone to find out if it's open on Sundays.


Portiamo i bambini con noi.
We're going to take the kids with us.


Farai l'intera visita guidata?
Are you going to do the whole guided tour?



You can use ho intenzione di or penso di (I intend to) to talk about what you intend to do.

I intend to...


Ho intenzione di andarci con una guida alpina.
I intend to go with a mountain guide.


Ho intenzione di ritornare ai la prossima volta.
I intend to go back to the Vatican Musei Vaticani Museums next time.


Penso di fare l'escursione sul vulcano la settimana prossima.
I intend to go on the excursion to the volcano next week.


Pensate di passarci molto tempo?
Do you intend to spend much time there?


Cosa pensate di visitare prima di tutto?
What do you plan to visit first?



If you want to talk about the plans that have been made, you can use dovrei (meaning I'm planning to) followed by the infinitive. dovrei comes from the verb dovere. For more information on dovere, see page 281.

I'm planning to...


Dovrei visitare i giardini botanici nel pomeriggio.
I'm planning to visit the botanic gardens in the afternoon.


Dovrei raggiungere la comitiva alle quattro.
I'm planning to meet up with the group at four.


Dovremmo passare la notte in una baita e raggiungere la cima il giorno dopo.
We're planning to spend the night in a mountain hut and reach the summit the following day.


A che ora dovremmo arrivare?
What time are we supposed to get there?



BUONO A SAPERSI!
As well as using dovrei to talk about your plans, you can also use it to talk about what you should do or ought to do, as in dovrei andarmene (I should go).

MAKING SUGGESTIONS

You may wish to make a suggestion to your colleagues or friends about where you should go or what you should visit in Italian. One way of doing this is to use propongo di (I suggest) followed by the verb in the infinitive. propongo comes from the verb proporre (to suggest). For more information on verbs like proporre, see page 268.

I suggest...


Propongo di visitare il Museo del Mare.
I suggest we visit the Maritime Museum.


Propongo di rimandare la visita a lunedì.
I suggest we postpone the trip to the zoo allo zoo until Monday.


Propongo un picnic al parco.
I suggest we have a picnic in the park.


Cosa ci propone di fare?
What do You suggest we do?



You can make a suggestion using the phrase Perché non...? (Why don't...?) followed by the present tense.

Why don't...?


Perché non facciamo una passeggiata nella città vecchia?
Why don't we walk round the old town?


Perché non fai delle foto dalla torre?
Why don't you take some pictures from the tower?


Perché non facciamo un giro della città in carrozza?
Why don't we go round the town in a horse-drawn carriage?


Perché non prendi la metropolitana per andare in Piazza Duomo?
Why don't you take the underground to Piazza Duomo?



Another way of making suggestions is to say dovremmo (we should). dovremmo comes from the verb dovere. For more information on dovere, see page 281.

We should...


Dovremmo salire con la funivia.
We should take the cable car to the top.


Dovremmo tornare domani per vedere tutto il resto.
We should come back tomorrow to see all the rest.


Stasera dovreste andare a vedere lo spettacolo di luci e suoni.
You should go to the laser show tonight.


Dovrebbe noleggiare una bicicletta per fare il giro dell'isola.
You should hire a bike to cycle round the island.


ASKING FOR INFORMATION

If you need some information about the things you plan to see or do, you can use È...? to ask Is it...?.

Is it...?


È una visita guidata?
Is it a guided tour?


È una camminata impegnativa?
Is it a difficult walk?


È accessibile ai disabili?
Is it accessible to disabled people?



You often put the thing you're asking about (for example, the castle or the museum) at the end of the Italian question.

Is...?


È interessante il castello?
Is the castle interesting?


È gratuita l'entrata?
Is admission free?


È aperto il museo?
Is the museum open?



You may also need to ask if something is available in the place you're visiting. Use C'è...? or Ci sono...? to ask Is there...? and Are there...?.

Is there...?


C'è un ufficio turistico qui in città?
Is there a tourist information office in this town?


Ci sono cose da vedere nel paesino?
Is there anything to see in the village?


C'è uno sconto per pensionati?
Is there a reduced price for pensioners?


Ci sono mummie nel museo?
Are there any mummies in the museum?


Cosa c'è da vedere a Bergamo? Vale la pena visitarla? 
What is there to see in Bergamo? Is it worth a visit?



In order to obtain more specific information, you can use Che...? or Quale...? (What...?), A che ora...? (What time...?) or Quanto costa...? (How much is...?).

What...?


Che genere di dipinto è?
What type of painting is it?


In che lingua è scritto il depliant?
What language is the leaflet written in?


Quale è la stazione più vicina al Campidoglio?
What is the nearest station to the Campidoglio?


Qual è l'orario di apertura?
What are the opening hours?


What time...?


A che ora ci si ritrova al pullman?
What time do we meet at the bus?


A che ora chiude il parco?
What time does the park close?


A che ora c'è la prossima visita guidata?
What time is the next guided tour?


A che ora è meglio andarci?
What's the best time to go?


How much is...?


Quanto costa questa cartolina, per favore?
How much is this postcard, please?


Quanto costa un biglietto per studenti?
How much is a student ticket?


Quanto costa la traversata in traghetto?
How much is the ferry crossing?


Quanto costa fare una gita a Capri?
How much is it to take a trip to Capri?



To find out how long something lasts, or how long it takes to get somewhere, you can use Quanto...? (How long...?).

How long...?


Quanto dura la visita?
How long does the tour last?


Quanto dura la gita in barca?
How long is the boat trip?


Quanto ci si mette per arrivarci?
How long does it take to get there?



To ask how you do something, you can use Come si...? (How do you...?), followed by the verb in the 'he/she/it' form, or Come si fa a...? followed by the verb in the infinitive.

How do you...?


Come si arriva alla città vecchia?
How do you get to the old town?


Come si accede al secondo piano?
How do you get to the second floor?


Come si fa a scegliere la lingua per la visita registrata?
How do you select the language of the audio tour?


Come si fa a comprare i biglietti?
How do you get tickets?


ASKING FOR THINGS

When you're out and about in an Italian town, you will want to be able to ask for things in Italian. Use Mi dà...? (Can I have...?) which comes from the verb dare. For more information on dare, see page 280.

Can I have...?


Mi dà due biglietti d'ingresso per il museo, per favore?
Can I have two tickets for the museum, please?


Mi dà il programma per il concerto di stasera?
Can I have the programme for this evening's concert?


Mi dà le cuffie per la visita registrata?
Could I have headphones for the audio tour?


Mi dà una piantina del museo?
Could I have a map of the museum?



Very often you will want to say that you need something in particular. To do this use ho bisogno di or avrei bisogno di (I need). Remember that avrei bisogno sounds slightly more polite than ho bisogno.

I need...


Ho bisogno di altri due biglietti.
I need two more tickets.


Ho bisogno di una guida che parli inglese.
I need a guide who can speak English.


Ha bisogno delle cuffie.
She needs a pair of headphones.


Avrei bisogno di una piantina della città.
I need a street map of the city.


Avrei bisogno dell'indirizzo del museo.
I need the address of the museum.



If you want to find out if something is available, use Ha...? (Do You have...?) or Avrebbe...? (Would You have...?). ha and avrebbe are from the verb avere (to have). For more information on avere, see page 279.

Do you have...?


Ha degli opuscoli in inglese?
Do You have any brochures in English?


Ha guide registrate in altre lingue?
Do You have audio guides in other languages?


Ha un giornale locale, per favore?
Have You got a local newspaper, please?


Avrebbe informazioni su escursioni in questa zona?
Would You have any information on trips in this area?



When you want to ask if someone can do something for you, use Può...? (Can You...?) or Potrebbe...? (Could You...?), or Puoi...? or Potresti...? if you are addressing somebody younger. These come from the verb potere (to be able). For more information on potere, see page 284.

Can you...?


Può farci una foto?
Can You take a picture of us?


Mi può dire l'orario di apertura?
Can You tell me what the opening hours are?


Potrebbe farmi passare per la città vecchia?
Could You take me through the old town?


Mi potresti aiutare, per favore?
Could you help me, please?


ASKING FOR PERMISSION

There may be occasions where you want to ask for permission to do something. To do this, use Posso...? (Can I...?) or Potrei...? (Could I...?). posso and potrei come from the verb potere (to be able). For more information on potere, see page 284.

Can I...?


Posso fare foto?
Can I take pictures?


Posso entrare con la borsa?
Can I take my bag in?


Possiamo parcheggiare qui?
Can we park our car here?


Potrei prendere in prestito la sua guida per un minuto?
Could I borrow Your guidebook for a moment?



Another way of asking for permission is to use Le dispiace se...? (Do You mind if...?).

Do you mind if...?


Le dispiace se entro con la borsa?
Do You mind if I take my bag in with me?


Le dispiace se ci sediamo sull'erba?
Do You mind if we sit on the grass?


Le dispiace se lascio il passeggino qui?
Do You mind if I leave the pushchair here?


Is it a problem if...?


È un problema se fumo?
Is it a problem if I smoke?


Mi scusi, è un problema se faccio delle foto?
Excuse me, is it a problem if I take pictures?


È un problema per lei se pago con la carta?
Is it a problem for You if I pay by card?


SAYING WHAT YOU LIKE, DISLIKE, PREFER

If you want to talk about what you like, use mi piace (I like) for singular nouns or mi piacciono for plural nouns. To say what you don't like, use non mi piace or non mi piacciono (I don't like).

I like...


Mi piace visitare le gallerie d'arte moderna.
I like visiting modern art galleries.


Mi piacciono i fuochi d'artificio.
I like fireworks.


Questa scultura mi piace molto.
I like this sculpture a lot.


Mi piacciono tantissimo i paesini dell'Umbria.
I love the small villages in Umbria.


Ti piace questo genere di
Do you like this type of architecture? architettura?


I don't like...


Non mi piace l'arte greca.
I don't like Greek art.


Non mi piacciono le gite in pullman.
I don't like bus tours.


Non mi piacciono le montagne russe.
I don't like roller-coasters.


Non mi piace affatto dover fare la fila.
I really don't like having to queue.



If you want to say what you prefer, you can use preferisco (I prefer). If you want to say that something would suit you better, use preferirei (I'd rather).

I prefer...


Preferisco evitare quella zona.
I prefer to avoid that area.


Preferisco andare a piedi.
I prefer to walk.


Preferisco i musei agli edifici di interesse religioso.
I prefer museums to religious buildings.


I'd rather...


Preferirei passare tutta la settimana a Napoli.
I'd rather spend the whole week in Naples.


Preferirei prendere la funicolare.
I'd rather take the funicular railway.


Preferiremmo raggiungere la comitiva più tardi.
We'd rather meet up with the group later.


Preferiremmo andarci a piedi piuttosto che con l'autobus.
We'd rather walk than take the bus.


EXPRESSING OPINIONS

To say what you think of something, use penso che or trovo che (I think that). They are both followed by the subjunctive. For more information on the subjunctive, see page 273.

I think...


Penso che sia organizzato molto bene.
I think it's very well organized.


Penso che la guida non sia abbastanza chiara nello spiegare le cose.
I don't think that the guide explains things clearly enough.


Trovo che sia un po' caro per quello che è.
I think it's a bit expensive for what it is.


Non ho trovato il museo molto interessante.
I didn't find the museum very interesting.



One way of expressing your disappointment in something is to use peccato che (it's a shame that). The verb that follows is in the subjunctive.

It's a shame that...


Peccato che non ci sia niente per i bambini.
It's a shame that there's nothing for children.


Peccato che il depliant sia solo in italiano.
It's a shame that the leaflet is only in Italian.


Peccato che sia chiuso l'edificio principale.
It's a shame the main building isn't open.


COMPLAINING

Even in Italy, you may have to complain about something which you're disappointed or unhappy with.

I'm disappointed with...


Sono deluso del modo in cui ci hanno trattati.
I'm disappointed with the way we were treated.


La gita mi ha proprio deluso.
I was really disappointed with the trip.


I bambini erano delusi di non aver visto i pagliacci.
The children were disappointed that they didn't see the clowns.


I'm not happy with...


Non siamo rimasti soddisfatti della guida.
We weren't happy with our guide.


Il servizio qui lascia proprio a desiderare.
I'm not happy with the service here.


Non abbiamo mai visto un tale caos.
We have never seen such chaos.


Non solo era in ritardo, ma è stata anche sgarbata.
Not only was she late, she was also rude.



If you want to describe a situation, you can use c'è (there is) and ci sono (there are).

There's...


C'è un sacco di rumore nel museo.
There's a lot of noise in the museum.


Ci sono pochissime informazioni sulla storia di questo posto.
There's very little information about the history of this place.


Non ci sono strutture per i disabili.
There are no facilities for the disabled.


LISTEN OUT FOR
Here are some key phrases which you are likely to hear when you're sightseeing.


In quale lingua volete le informazioni?
What language would you like the information in?


Ecco un depliant in inglese.
Here's a leaflet in English.


Ha la tessera studentesca?
Do You have a student card?


Il museo è aperto dalle nove alle tre.
The museum's open from nine to three.


La galleria è chiusa la domenica.
The gallery's closed on Sundays.


La prossima visita guidata è alle dieci.
The next guided tour's at ten.


Quanti biglietti vuole?
How many tickets would You like?


Sono otto euro a testa.
It's eight euros each.


È vietato fotografare.
You're not allowed to take pictures.


Posso guardare nella sua borsa?
Can I search Your bag?


Per cortesia lasci borsa e cappotto nel guardaroba.
Please leave Your bag and coat in the cloakroom.


Le è piaciuto?
Did You enjoy it?



Lifestyle Tips
• The Giornate Europee del Patrimanio in the third week of September correspond to the Open Doors days in Britain. You can visit monuments and museums for free, and also get into many places that are not normally open to the public.
• In the high season there is often a lot going on; local newspapers are a good way of keeping you informed about social and cultural events and telling you what there is to see in a given area. Remember to have a look at the giornalai (newsagents') - you may even find some local newspapers in English!
• Many cities bring history to life in annual events such as Siena's famous Palio (a horse race), Arezzo's Giostra del Saraceno (jousting) and Firenze's Calcio in Costume (football in medieval costume). These events are not organized for the benefit of tourists - hundreds of local citizens participate, and thousands watch them.
• Il carnevale is another traditional event involving music and costume. It takes place in February, during the week before the start of Lent. The most famous one is in Venezia, but carnevale is celebrated all over Italy.
• The most famous Italian museums and galleries are so popular that you need to book in advance. You can do this online. Your ticket entitles you to spend a certain length of time there - often two hours. Remember that many museums are closed on Mondays.










Prego, desidera ? - Can I help you?
Whether you're planning to shop for clothes or household items, get in your groceries or just pick up a postcard, the phrases in this unit will help give you the confidence to find the best bargains and shop till you drop using typical natural Italian.
ASKING FOR THINGS

When you're shopping in Italy, you may be asked È servito? or È servita? (Are You being attended to?). If you're just browsing, say do solo un'occhiata (I'm just browsing), or if someone else is already serving you, you can say già servito, grazie or già servita, grazie (I'm already being served, thanks). Alternatively, if you know what you want, use vorrei (I'd like). vorrei is from the verb volere (to want). For more information on volere, see page 285.

I'd like...


Vorrei due chili di patate, per favore.
I'd like two kilos of potatoes, please.


Vorrei una scheda memoria per la macchina fotografica digitale.
I'd like a memory card for my digital camera.


Vorrei un melone ben maturo, per favore.
I'd like a melon that's nice and ripe, please.


Vorrei provare il numero 38 di queste scarpe.
I'd like to try a 38 in these shoes.


Ne voglio ancora due, per favore.
I want two more of these, please.



At the market or in shops where an assistant is serving you, you can ask for something by saying Mi dà...? (Could I have...?) followed by what you want and per favore. This comes from the verb dare (to give). For more information on dare, see page 280.

Could I have...?


Mi dà un chilo di arance, per favore?
Could I have a kilo of oranges, please?


Mi dà 10 francobolli?
Could I have 10 stamps?


Mi dà una borsa, per favore?
Could I have a carrier bag, please?


Mi dà due etti di prosciutto crudo, per favore?
Could I have 200 grams of Parma ham, please?



You can also say what you are looking for by using cerco (I'm looking for). cerco comes from the verb cercare (to look for).

I'm looking for...


Cerco del coriandolo fresco.
I'm looking for fresh coriander.


Cerco del tofu.
I'm looking for tofu.


Cerco un paio di calzoncini per mio figlio di dieci anni.
I'm looking for shorts for my ten-year-old son.


Cerco un regalo per un bebè.
I'm looking for a present for a baby.



When you've chosen what you want to buy, you can say prendo (I'll take). If you haven't made up your mind, say non ho ancora deciso (I haven't decided yet).

I'll take...


Prendo queste due cartoline.
I'll take these two postcards.


Prendo quelli blu invece di quelli marroni.
I'll take the blue ones instead of the brown ones.


Prendo la prima borsa che mi ha fatto vedere.
I'll take the first bag You showed me.


Non prendo i jeans, sono piccoli.
I won't take the jeans, they're too small.


SAYING WHAT YOU HAVE TO DO

Shopping isn't always what you'd choose to do, is it? To say that you have to buy something or that you have to do something in Italian, you can use devo (I have to) and then the verb in the infinitive. devo comes from the verb dovere (to have to). For more information on the verb dovere, see page 281.

I have to...


Devo comprarmi delle scarpe nuove.
I have to buy some new shoes.


Devo passare in panetteria.
I have to stop at the baker's.


Se vuoi provare qualcosa devi chiedere alla commessa.
You have to ask the assistant if you want to try something on.


Dobbiamo comprare un nuovo aspirapolvere.
We have to buy a new vacuum cleaner.


I must...


Devo trovare un vestito per la festa di sabato.
I must find a dress for the party on Saturday.


Devo trovare un regalo di compleanno per mia sorella.
I must find a birthday present for my sister.


Devo comprare un completo per il colloquio.
I must buy a suit for the interview.



If you want to talk about things you need, use ho bisogno di (I need).

I need...


Ho bisogno di occhiali da sci.
I need some ski goggles.


Ho bisogno di due etti di funghi porcini. Ne avete ancora?
I need 200 grams of porcini mushrooms. Do you have any left?


Ho bisogno di pile per la sveglia.
I need some batteries for my alarm clock.


Di cosa hai bisogno per le vacanze?
What do you need for your holidays?


TALKING ABOUT YOUR PLANS

You may want to talk about what you're thinking of buying or where you're thinking of going. Italian uses the phrase penso di (I'm thinking of) followed by a verb in the infinitive.

I'm thinking of...


Penso di andare al mercato domani.
I'm thinking of going to the market tomorrow.


Penso di andare a fare shopping a Milano.
I'm thinking of going shopping in Milan.


Non pensiamo di andare in centro questo fine settimana.
We don't think we'll go into town this weekend.


Pensi di passare al supermercato al rientro?
Do you think you'll stop at the supermarket on your way home?


I hope to...


Spero di trovare qualcosa per meno di venti euro.
I hope to find something for under 20 euros.


Spero di trovare un divano in svendita a metà prezzo.
I hope to get a half-price sofa in the sales.


Speriamo di trovare un regalo per Carlo e Mariella.
We hope to find a present for Carlo and Mariella.



When talking about what you intend to do, you can use ho intenzione di (I intend to) followed by a verb in the infinitive.

I intend to...


Ho intenzione di andare a vedere le svendite questo fine settimana.
I intend to go to the sales this weekend.


Ho intenzione di comprarmi un nuovo costume da bagno.
I'm going to buy a new swimming costume.


Abbiamo intenzione di comprare un nuovo letto.
We're going to buy a new bed.


EXPRESSING OPINIONS

As you look at items for sale, you may well want to make comments to an Italian-speaking friend or to the shop assistant. To give your opinion, use penso (I think) or trovo. These come from the verbs pensare and trovare. For more information on -are verbs, see page 268. When pensare and trovare are used with che, the verb that follows is in the subjunctive. You can find out more about the subjunctive on page 273.

I think...


Penso che questo negozio sia esageratamente caro.
I think this shop is far too expensive.


Trovo questo tappeto veramente bello.
I think this rug is really lovely.


Non penso che questo maglione sia abbastanza caldo.
I don't think this jumper is warm enough.


Che ne pensi di questa camicia?
What do you think of this shirt?


In my opinion...


Secondo me questo vestito è troppo lungo.
In my opinion, this dress is too long.


Secondo me questo rossetto è un po' troppo scuro.
In my opinion, this lipstick is slightly too dark.


Secondo lei, tra questi cappelli, quale mi sta meglio?
In your opinion, which of these hats looks best on me?


Ho bisogno della tua opinione su questa macchina fotografica digitale.
I need your opinion on this digital camera.



You can use direi che (I'd say that) to give your opinion about something. direi comes from the verb dire (to say). Here, it is in the conditional, which can be used to say things in a less definite way. For more information on the conditional, see page 274.

I'd say...


Direi che mi è un po' stretto.
I'd say it's a bit tight for me.


Direi che è un affare.
I'd say that it's a bargain.


Che ne dici di questa lampada?
What do you think of this lamp?



If you want to ask for someone's opinion or advice, you can use Mi consiglia di...? (Do You think I should...?). This comes from the verb consigliare.

Do you think I should...?


Mi consiglia di prendere quello blu o quello rosso?
Do You think I should get the blue one or the red one?


Quale mi consiglia di prendere?
Which do You think I should get?


Cosa mi consiglia?
What do You recommend?


ASKING FOR INFORMATION

If you're in a strange town, you may want to ask for some information, for example if there is a particular shop in the area. Simple! Use C'è...? for Is there...? and Ci sono...? for Are there...?.

Is there...?


C'è un supermercato qui vicino?
Is there a supermarket near here?


C'è un parcheggio vicino al mercato?
Is there a car park near the market?


C'è un reparto di prodotti biologici?
Is there an organic food section?


C'è una garanzia?
Does it have a guarantee?


Ci sono carrelli?
Are there any trolleys?


Is this...?


È questo l'unico modello che avete in negozio?
Is this the only model you stock?


È questa la taglia più grande che avete?
Is this the biggest size you have?


Sono gli unici colori che avete?
Are these the only colours you have?


Questo è il prezzo al pezzo o al chilo?
Is this the price for one or per kilo?



To find out if something's available, you'll need to use the question Avete...? (Do you have...?) or Avreste...? (Would you have...?). avete and avreste are from the verb avere (to have). For more information on avere, see page 279.

Do you have...?


Avete prodotti del commercio equo e solidale?
Do you have Fairtrade products?


Ce l'avete in una taglia più piccola?
Do you have it in a smaller size?


Avete abbigliamento per bambini?
Do you do children's clothes?


Lo avreste in un altro colore?
Would you have it in another colour?



In order to obtain specific information, for example, where something is, which item you should buy or when something will happen, you may want to ask Dove...? (Where...?), Che...? or Quale...? (Which...?), or Quando...? (When...?).

Where...?


Dov'è il Bancomat più vicino, per favore?
Where's the nearest cash point, please?


Dov'è la cassa, per favore?
Where's the cash desk, please?


Mi può dire dov'è il servizio clienti, per favore?
Can You tell me where customer services are, please?


Dove trovo gli occhiali da sole?
Where can I find sunglasses?


Which...?


Che marca mi consiglia?
Which make do You recommend?


Che batterie devo comprare per la mia macchina fotografica?
Which batteries do I need to buy for my camera?


A che piano si trova l'abbigliamento per uomo?
Which floor is the menswear department on?


Che giorno c'è il mercato?
What day is market day?


Quali prendi?
Which ones are you going to get?


Quale di queste due è la meno cara?
Which of these two is the cheaper?


When...?


Quando chiudete per pranzo?
When do you close for lunch?


Quando cominciano le svendite?
When do the sales start?


What time...?


A che ora aprite al mattino?
What time do you open in the morning?


A che ora arriva al mercato?
What time do You get to the market?



To be able to ask the price of something, you can use either Quanto costa...?, Quant'è...? or Quanto viene...? (How much is...?). If you're asking about more than one thing, use Quanto costano...?, Quanto sono...? or Quanto vengono...? (How much are...?).

How much is...?


Quanto costa questa lampada?
How much is this lamp?


Quant'è una bottiglia di aranciata?
How much is a bottle of fizzy orange?


Quanto viene quel braccialetto?
How much is that bracelet?


Quanto vengono i fichi, per favore?
How much are the figs, please?


Quanto costano al chilo le ciliegie?
How much are the cherries a kilo?


Quanto sono le scarpe?
How much are the shoes?


Quanto le devo?
How much do I owe You?



If you want to ask whether you can do something while you are out shopping, use Posso...? (Can I...?).

Can I...?


Posso pagare con la carta di credito?
Can I pay by credit card?


Posso avere la ricevuta, per favore?
Can I have a receipt, please?


Mi può fare un pacchetto regalo?
Can I have it giftwrapped?


Mi può fare uno sconto?
Can You give me a discount?



BUONO A SAPERSI!!
To say keep the change in Italian, use the expression tenga il resto. If you are talking to somebody young you would address with tu, use tieni il resto.

SAYING WHAT YOU LIKE, DISLIKE, PREFER

To say that you like something, you can say mi piace (literally, this pleases me). You use mi piace with singular words and mi piacciono with plural ones. To say that you don't like something, you can use non mi piace or non mi piacciono.

I like...


Mi piace questo negozio.
I like this shop.


Mi piacciono molto queste scarpe.
I like these shoes very much.


Mi piacciono i negozi di antiquariato.
I like antique shops.


Compralo, se ti piace.
Buy it if you like it.


Mi piace un sacco andare per svendite con un'amica.
I love going to the sales with a friend.


I don't like...


Non mi piace questo stile.
I don't like this style.


Non mi piacciono i grandi magazzini.
I don't like big stores.


Questi guanti mi piacciono meno.
I don't like these gloves as much.


Non ci piace fare la fila.
We don't like queuing.



Of course you might not just want to say what you like and what you don't like when out shopping, you may also want to talk about what you prefer. To say that you prefer A to B, use preferisco A a B. For more information on a followed by articles (il, la and so on) see page 255.

I prefer...


Preferisco quello verde.
I prefer the green one.


Preferisco i negozi piccoli ai supermercati.
I prefer small shops to supermarkets.


Preferiamo i prodotti freschi a quelli surgelati.
We prefer fresh produce to frozen.


Preferisco comprare su Internet piuttosto che andare per negozi.
I prefer to buy online rather than go to the shops.


I'd rather...


Preferirei qualcosa di più classico.
I'd rather go for something more classic.


Preferirei dei prodotti biologici.
I'd rather have organic products.


Preferirei provarlo prima di comprarlo.
I'd rather try it before buying it.


Preferiremmo comprare solo prodotti locali.
We'd rather buy only local produce.


MAKING SUGGESTIONS

On shopping expeditions you may well want to make suggestions about what to choose or what to do next. You can do this by putting E se...? (How about...?) at the beginning of a sentence. The verb that follows is in the imperfect subjunctive. You can find out more about the subjunctive on page 273.

How about...?


E se andassimo a fare shopping un'altra volta?
How about we go shopping another time?


E se provassimo quella nuova libreria?
How about trying that new bookshop?


E se lo comprassimo su Internet?
How about we buy it online?



To suggest what you and your friends could do, you can use potremmo (we could).

We could...


Potremmo andare a vedere in un altro negozio.
We could go and look in another shop.


Potremmo chiedere se ce lo ordinano.
We could ask them to order it for us.


Potresti chiedergli di farti uno sconto.
You could ask him to knock something off the price.



Another simple way of making suggestions is to raise the tone of your voice at the end of a normal sentence.

Shall I...?


Prendo del pane?
Shall I get some bread?


Compro un dolce per stasera?
Shall I get a cake for tonight?


Compriamo del gelato?
Shall we buy some ice cream?


Andiamo al supermercato?
Shall we go to the supermarket?



When offering to do something, you can say lasci che or, more informally or to somebody younger, lascia che (let me). These are from the verb lasciare. The verb that follows is in the subjunctive. You can find out more about the subjunctive on page 273.

Let me...


Lascia che paghi io.
Let me pay for this.


Lasci che l'aiuti.
Let me help You.


Lasciami portare la spesa.
Let me carry the shopping.


ASKING FOR PERMISSION

To ask if you can do something, such as try on an item of clothing, use Posso...? (Can I...?) or Potrei...? (Could I...?). These come from the verb potere (to be able). For more information on potere, see page 284.

Can I...?


Posso provarmi questa gonna?
Can I try on this skirt?


Posso tenere l'appendino?
Can I keep the hanger?


Me li posso provare?
Can I try them on?


Ci potrei pensare ancora per qualche minuto?
Could I think about it for another few minutes?


I'll... if you don't mind


Se non le dispiace mi provo di nuovo gli altri pantaloni.
I'll try the other trousers on again, if You don't mind.


Se non le dispiace do un'occhiata in giro.
I'll have a look round, if You don't mind.


Se non le dispiace ripasso sabato.
I'll come back on Saturday, if You don't mind.



To ask for permission in a polite and slightly formal way, use Permette che... (May I...?) followed by the verb in the subjunctive. You can find out more about the subjunctive on page 273.

May I...?


Permette che lo guardi più da vicino?
May I have a closer look?


Permette che assaggi l'uva?
May I try one of the grapes?


Permette che tiriamo la sveglia fuori dalla scatola?
May we take the alarm clock out of its box?


Permette che mia figlia si provi la giacca che è in vetrina?
Could my daughter try on the jacket that's in the window?


LISTEN OUT FOR
Here are some key phrases which you may hear when out shopping.


È servito?
Are You being served?


Prego?
Can I help you?


Che taglia porta?
What size are You?


Ha bisogno di una taglia più piccola?
Do You need a smaller size?


Le cerco una taglia più grande?
Shall I look for a larger size for You?


In che colore le piacerebbe?
What colour would You like it in?


Quanto pensava di spendere?
How much were You thinking of spending?


Al momento non l'abbiamo in magazzino.
We don't have any in stock at the moment.


Altro?
Anything else?


È un regalo?
Is it a present for someone?


Le faccio un pacchetto regalo?
Shall I giftwrap it for You?


Purtroppo accettiamo solo contanti.
It's cash only, I'm afraid.


Carta o Bancomat?
Credit or debit card?


Mi spiace, ma non accettiamo carte di credito.
I'm afraid we don't take credit cards.


Una firma, per favore.
Your signature, please.


Deve digitare il codice.
You have to key in your PIN.




Lifestyle Tips
• When entering a shop in Italy you usually greet the shopkeeper and other customers by saying buongiorno or buonasera, depending on the time of day. You say arrivederci (goodbye) when you leave. This is especially the case in small towns and villages where people are friendlier. It is also customary to greet the checkout operator in a supermarket.
• Be cautious about helping yourself in small shops such as greengrocers. Shopkeepers may object if you handle goods, or disarrange their display.
• You may have to take a ticket to get a place in the queue at the meat or cheese counters in some supermarkets. If you can't see where to get your ticket from, try asking Dove prendo il numero? (Where do I get a ticket?).
• The price of some foods, particularly cheese and delicatessen items may be given per etto (one hundred grams). When buying such things you can ask for un etto, or due etti etc.
• The first thing a shop assistant, or market stallholder says to a customer is often Dica! (What can I do for you?), which literally means Speak! Stallholders may offer you a taste of their wares, saying Vuole assaggiare? and offer you uno sconto - a special price.
• lo sconto is an important part of shopping and Italians are not embarrassed to ask if the shopkeeper will give them one. If you feel you can't quite afford something it's often worth asking Mi può fare uno sconto?.









Un servizio impeccabile! - Excellent service!

The phrases in this unit will help you make sure that, when you're in Italy, you can communicate your needs in natural Italian. You could be at the bank or bureau de change, the hairdresser's, looking for insurance or seeking advice on any other kind of service - the language you need is covered here.

GREETINGS

It is crucial if you want to sound natural in Italian that you greet people correctly. Say buongiorno or, later in the day, buonasera, to someone you've never met. You can also use salve, which is more informal. Say ciao to somebody younger and with whom you feel comfortable using the tu form.

Good...


Buongiorno!
Good morning!


Buonasera!
Good afternoon!


Buonasera!
Good evening!


Salve, Luigi!
Hello, Luigi!


Ciao bella!
Hello darling!



BUONO A SAPERSI!
When entering public places or shops, especially in smaller towns and villages, it's usual to greet the shopkeeper and other customers by saying buongiorno or buonasera and to say arrivederci (goodbye) when leaving.


When you want to say goodbye, use arrivederci. To say See you!, use Ci vediamo!.

See you...!


OK, ti chiamo la settimana prossima. Ci vediamo!
OK, I'll give you a ring next week. See you!


Ci vediamo tra due settimane!
See you in two weeks!


A domani!
See you tomorrow!


A questa sera!
See you tonight!


A lunedì!
See you on Monday!


Ci vediamo alle cinque, allora. A più tardi!
5 o'clock then. See you later!



BUONO A SAPERSI!
In Italian, if you use a più tardi for see you later, you expect to see the person later on that day, not just some time in the future. If you mean see you sometime, use ci vediamo.

Have a good...!


Buona giornata!
Have a good day!


Buon fine settimana!
Have a good weekend!


Buon divertimento!
Have a good time!


TALKING ABOUT YOURSELF

Very often you will need to give someone some personal details and some information about where you're staying and so on. To say what your name is, use mi chiamo (my name is) and then your name.

My name is...


Mi chiamo Richard Davidson.
My name is Richard Davidson.


Mi chiamo Mary Rogers.
My name is Mary Rogers.


Mio marito si chiama Peter Brown.
My husband's name is Peter Brown.


I'm staying...


Sto in un albergo.
I'm staying at a hotel.


Sto in un appartamento qui vicino.
I'm staying at an apartment nearby.


Sono ospite di una famiglia.
I'm staying with a host family.


Abbiamo affittato una casa.
We're staying in a rented house.


My address is...


Abito in Italia. Il mio indirizzo è via Mazzini 3, 34100 Trieste.
I live in Italy. My address is via Mazzini 3, 34100 Trieste.


Il mio indirizzo permanente è 29 Kelvin Close, L3 0QT Liverpool.
My permanent address is 29 Kelvin Close, L3 0QT Liverpool.


L'indirizzo dell'albergo è Hotel via Segantini 4.
The address of my hotel is Hotel Milano, Milano, via Segantini 4.



To say where you're from and how long you're staying, you can use sono. sono comes from the verb essere (to be). For more information on essere, see page 282.

I am...


Sono in vacanza.
I'm on holiday.


Sono inglese.
I'm English.


Sono di Aberdeen, in Scozia.
I'm from Aberdeen in Scotland.



Siamo qui per tre settimane.
We're here for three weeks.


SAYING WHAT YOU HAVE TO DO

When you're dealing with one kind of service or another, you may want to say that you have to do something in Italian. To do this, you use devo (I have to) followed by the verb in the infinitive. devo comes from the verb dovere (to have to). For more information on dovere, see page 281.

I have to...


Devo prima passare in lavanderia.
I have to call in at the dry-cleaner's first.


Devo prendere nota dei particolari del prodotto.
I have to take down the details of this product.


Dovrò ordinare un altro libretto degli assegni.
I'm going to have to order a new cheque book.



devo can also be used to say I must.

I must...


Devo portare a far sviluppare il rullino.
I must get the film developed.


Devo portare a riparare la macchina fotografica.
I must get my camera repaired.


Dobbiamo passare all'agenzia immobiliare per restituire le chiavi.
We must call at the estate agent's to return the keys.


Non devo dimenticarmi di prendere appuntamento dall'estetista.
I mustn't forget to make an appointment at the beautician's.


I need...


Ho bisogno di un consiglio.
I need some advice.


Ho bisogno di ritirare del contante prima di martedì.
I need to take out some cash before Tuesday.


Ho bisogno di fare delle fotocopie a colori.
I need to make some colour photocopies.


Abbiamo bisogno di parlargli.
We need to speak to him.



To say I don't have to, you can use non occorre che followed by the subjunctive, or non sono obbligato a followed by the infinitive. For more information on the use of the subjunctive and the infinitive, see pages 273 and 267.

I don't have to...


Non occorre che vada in banca oggi.
I don't have to go to the bank today.


Non occorre che vada in libreria oggi.
I don't have to go to the bookshop today.


Non sono obbligato ad aprire un altro conto immediatamente.
I don't have to open another account straightaway.


SAYING WHAT YOU WANT TO DO

To say what you would like to do in Italian, use vorrei (I'd like). vorrei comes from volere (to want). For more information on volere, see page 285.

I'd like...


Vorrei comprare una macchina fotografica digitale.
I'd like to buy a digital camera.


Vorrei segnalare un problema.
I'd like to report a problem.


Vorrei fissare un appuntamento per tagliarmi i capelli.
I'd like to make an appointment to get my hair cut.


Vorrei sapere il tasso di cambio.
I'd like to know what the exchange rate is.



desidero or desidererei (I wish) are polite ways of saying what you want to do. They come from the verb desiderare (to wish). For more information on -are verbs like desiderare, see page 268.

I wish...


Desidero fare un versamento.
I wish to make a payment.


Desidero cambiare delle sterline in euro.
I wish to change pounds into euros.



Desidererei parlare al direttore della banca.
 I wish to speak to the bank manager.



If you want something to be done for you, you say voglio far with the infinitive. For more information on the infinitive, see page 267.

I want to have...


Voglio far trasferire questa somma sul mio conto inglese.
I want to have this amount transferred to my British account.


Voglio far riparare la macchina fotografica.
I want to have my camera repaired.


Voglio far sviluppare questo rullino.
I want to have this film developed.


Devo far autenticare la firma da un notaio.
I need to have the signature authenticated by a notary.


ASKING FOR INFORMATION

When you're asking for information about particular services, you can ask someone if they know something by asking Sa...? (Do You know...?) or Saprebbe...? (Would You know...?) followed by dove (where), quando (when), come (how) and so on. sa and saprebbe come from sapere (to know).

Do you know...?


Sa dove posso farmi fare un doppione della chiave?
Do You know where I can have a second key cut?


Sa a nome di chi devo emettere l'assegno?
Do You know who I should make the cheque payable to?


Sa quando le arriverà il pezzo di ricambio?
Do You know when you'll get the spare part?


Saprebbe dove posso prendere una ricarica per il cellulare?
Would You happen to know where I can top up my phone?



You can use C'è...? or Ci sono...? to ask Is there...? and Are there...?.

Is there...?


C'è un Internet point in questa zona?
Is there an internet café in this area?


C'è un buon parrucchiere in città?
Is there a good hairdresser in town?


Ci sono lettini solari in questo salone?
Are there any sunbeds in this salon?




A couple of key questions you'll want to ask when finding out about services are to do with prices, and how long things will take. Use quanto to ask these questions.

How much is it...?


Quanto costa un taglio e colpi di sole?
How much is it for a cut and highlights?


Quanto costa far sbloccare il mio cellulare?
How much is it to have my phone unlocked?


Quanto verrebbe far pulire questa giacca?
How much would it be to have this jacket dry-cleaned?


How long does it take...?


Quanto ci mettono ad arrivare i soldi?
How long does it take for the money to come through?


Quanto ci mettete a rifare la stanza?
How long will it take you to get the room ready?


Quanto tempo ci vuole per aprire un conto in banca?
How long does it take to open a bank account?



Use Come si...? (How do you...?) followed by the present tense to ask how you do something. You can also use Come si fa a...? followed by the infinitive. For more information on the infinitive, see page 267.

How do you...?


Come si scrive?
How do you spell that?


Come si accende?
How do you switch this on?


Come si fa a ingrandire un documento?
How do you enlarge a document?


Come si fa ad aprire un conto in banca?
How do you open a bank account?


Come si fa a mandare dei soldi in Gran Bretagna?
How do you send money to the UK?



If you want to ask when something will be ready or available, use Quando...? (When...?).

When...?


Quando saranno pronti i documenti?
When will the documents be ready?


Quando posso ritirare i biglietti?
When can I pick up the tickets?


Quando chiudete?
When do you close?


Quando ci può ricevere?
When are You free to see us?


ASKING FOR THINGS

To get something done the way you like it, you'll need to say what you'd like and how you want it done. To say what you'd like, you can use vorrei (I'd like) which come from the verb volere (to want). For more information on volere, see page 285.

I'd like... 


Vorrei un modulo per la domanda, per favore.
I'd like an application form, please.



Vorrei trasferire dei soldi.
I'd like to transfer some money.


Vorrei fissare un appuntamento per lunedì pomeriggio, per favore.
I'd like to make an appointment for Monday afternoon, please.


Vorrei dei colpi di sole.
I'd like highlights, please.



When asking someone to do something for you, you can use Può...? (Can You...?). Questions beginning with Potrebbe...? (Could You...?) sound more polite than ones beginning with Può...?, so you may prefer to use this form instead. Both are followed by the verb in the infinitive. potrebbe and può come from the verb potere (to be able). For more information on potere, see page 284.

Can you...?


Può darmi una ricevuta, per favore?
Can You give me a receipt, please?


Mi può telefonare quando è riparato?
Can You phone me when it's fixed?


Mi può fare un preventivo?
Can You give me an estimate?


Potrebbe dare un'occhiata alla mia macchina fotografica?
Could You have a look at my camera?


Mi potrebbe dire se si può riparare, per favore?
Could You tell me if it can be repaired, please?


Would you mind...?


Le dispiacerebbe aspettare prima di incassare l'assegno?
Would You mind waiting before cashing the cheque?


Le dispiacerebbe darmi una fotocopia del contratto?
Would You mind giving me a photocopy of the contract?


Le dispiacerebbe spedirmelo via fax?
Would You mind sending it to me by fax?


Could you possibly...?


Le sarebbe forse possibile ricevermi oggi pomeriggio?
Could You possibly see me this afternoon?


Le sarebbe forse possibile trasferire queste foto su un CD?
Could You possibly put these photos onto a CD?


Potrebbe forse estendere la garanzia?
Could You possibly extend the guarantee?



When you want to find out if something is available, use Ha...? or Avrebbe...? (Have You got...?) to ask someone if they have something. ha and avrebbe come from the verb avere (to have). For more information on avere, see page 279.

Have you got...?


Ha della documentazione riguardo le vostre polizze di your insurance policies?
Have You got any documentation about assicurazione?


Ha un fax?
Have You got a fax machine?


Ha qualcosa per togliere questa macchia?
Do You have something to remove this stain?


Avrebbe delle pile AA?
Do You have any AA batteries?


Do you sell...?


Vendete pellicole in bianco e nero?
Do you sell black and white film?


Vendete prodotti biologici?
Do you sell organic products?


Avete lenti a contatto usa e getta?
Do you have disposable contact lenses?


ASKING FOR SUGGESTIONS

You may want to ask for advice or a recommendation. To ask for suggestions, use Mi consiglia di...? (Do You think I should...?). consiglia comes from the verb consigliare (to advise).

Do you think I should...?


Mi consiglia di cambiare i soldi in banca o in un cambiavalute?
Do You think I should change money at a bank or a bureau de change?


Mi consiglia di aprire un conto di risparmio?
Do You think I should open a savings account?


Ci consiglia di cambiare le serrature?
Do You think we should change the locks?


Cosa mi consiglia di fare?
What do You think I should do?


Would you recommend...?


Ci consiglia questo modello?
Would You recommend we get this model?


Ci consiglia questo prodotto?
Would You recommend this product?


Ci consiglierebbe di farci una assicurazione kasko?
Would you recommend that we take out comprehensive insurance?



You can use Dovrei...? (Should I...?) with the infinitive to ask whether you should do something. For more information on the infinitive, see page 267.

 Should I...?


Dovrei chiamare l'idraulico?
Should I call the plumber?


Dovrei informare la mia banca?
Should I inform my bank?


Dovrei chiedere un preventivo?
Had I better ask for an estimate?


Cosa dovrei fare?
What should I do?


MAKING SUGGESTIONS

Occasionally you might want to make a suggestion with regard to a particular service. To do this you can use potrei (I could). potrei comes from the verb potere (to be able). For more information on potere, see page 284.

I could...


Potrei contattare la mia banca in Gran Bretagna.
I could contact my bank in the UK.


Potrei spostare l'appuntamento a venerdì.
I could change the appointment to Friday.


Potremmo tornare più tardi.
We could come back later.


Can we agree on...?


Possiamo accordarci su un prezzo?
Can we agree on a price?


Possiamo accordarci su una data?
Can we agree on a date?


Ci mettiamo d'accordo su che ora incontrarci?
Can we agree on a time to meet up?


MAKING ARRANGEMENTS

To obtain services, you'll need to make arrangements with people. A simple way of asking someone what suits them, is to use Le va bene se...? (Is it okay with You if...?). va comes from the verb andare. For more information on andare, see page 278.

Is it okay with you if...?


Le va bene se torno alle cinque?
Is it okay with You if I come back at five?


Le va bene se passo nel suo ufficio domani?
Is it okay with You if I call in at Your office tomorrow?


Le va bene se spedisco l'assegno per posta?
Is it okay with You if I send the cheque by post?



To discuss what the best arrangement is, you can use È meglio se...? (Would it be best if...?) or Sarebbe meglio per lei se...? (Would it be better for You if...?) followed by the verb in the subjunctive. For more information on the subjunctive see page 273.

Would it be best if...?


È meglio se vengo di mattina?
Would it be best if I came in the morning?


È meglio se consulto un avvocato?
Would it be best if I checked with a laywer?


Would it be better for you if...?


Sarebbe meglio per lei se aspettassimo un po'?
Would it be better for You if we waited a little?


Sarebbe meglio per lei se avessimo un accordo scritto?
Would it be better for You if we had a written agreement?


Sarebbe meglio per lei se le dessimo un acconto?
Would it be better for You if we gave You a deposit?


Sarebbe meglio telefonare nel pomeriggio?
Would it be better to phone in the afternoon?


...would be best for me.


Per me sarebbe meglio di tutto vederci alle dieci nel suo ufficio.
Ten o'clock in Your office would be best for me.


La consegna a domicilio sarebbe meglio di tutto per me.
Home delivery would be best for me.


Per me andrebbe meglio di tutto un appuntamento nel pomeriggio.
An afternoon appointment would be best for me.


TALKING ABOUT YOUR PLANS

In English, we often say I'm going to to talk about the future. In Italian, you can use the future tense or the present tense. To learn more about these tenses, see page 271.

I'm going to...


Comprerò una nuova SIM card.
I'm going to buy a new SIM card.


Mi informerò presso la mia banca in Gran Bretagna.
I'm going to ask my bank in Britain.


La pagheremo con un assegno.
We're going to pay You by cheque.


Vedo il direttore della mia banca oggi pomeriggio.
I'm going to see my bank manager this afternoon.


Vediamo un appartamento questa settimana.
We're looking at a flat this week.



Italian speakers often use ho intenzione di to say I intend to. ho comes from the verb avere (to have). For more information on avere, see page 279.

I intend to...


Ho intenzione di trasferirmi qui in modo definitivo.
I intend to move here permanently.


Ho intenzione di aprire un nuovo conto.
I intend to open a new account.


Ho intenzione di comprare una macchina fotografica più sofisticata.
I intend to buy a more sophisticated camera.



I'm hoping to...


Spero di ricevere i documenti la settimana prossima.
I'm hoping to receive the documents next week.


Spero di finire i lavori entro dicembre.
I'm hoping to get the work finished by December.


Speriamo di poter traslocare prima possibile.
We're hoping to move in as soon as possible.



You can use Ha intenzione di...? (Do You intend to...?) to ask people if they're going to do something. ha comes from the verb avere (to have). For more information on avere, see page 279.

Do you intend to...?


Ha intenzione di cambiare la lente?
Do You intend to change the lens?


Ha intenzione di mettere in conto la manodopera?
Do You intend to charge for labour?


Ha intenzione di lasciare gli attrezzi qua?
Are You planning to leave your tools here?



To ask what someone is going to do, use Cosa ha intenzione di...? Or Cosa intende...? (What are You going to...?) followed by the infinitive. For questions asking when or how somebody is going to do something, just replace cosa with quando (when), come (how) and so on.

What are you going to...?


Cosa ha intenzione di dire all'assicurazione?
What are You going to tell the insurance company?


Cosa intende fare?
What are You going to do?


Quando ha intenzione di finire i lavori?
When are You going to finish the work?


Come intende risarcirmi?
How are You going to compensate me?


SAYING WHAT YOU LIKE, DISLIKE, PREFER

To say what you like, use mi piace (I like) with singular nouns and mi piacciono for plural nouns. To say what you don't like, use non mi piace or non mi piacciono (I don't like).

I like...


Mi piace avere le foto su un CD.
I like my photos on CD.


Mi piace tenere i capelli corti.
I like to keep my hair short.


Mi piace molto andare dalla manicure.
I really like getting my nails done.


Mi piacciono i colpi di sole.
I like highlights.


I don't like...


Non mi piace avere addosso troppi contanti.
I don't like having too much cash on me.


Veramente non mi piace lasciare la macchina in officina.
I don't really like leaving my car at the garage.


Non mi piacciono i lettini solari.
I don't like sunbeds.


Non sopporto questa suoneria.
I can't stand this ringtone.



If you want to say what you prefer, use preferisco (I prefer). To say that you prefer A to B, use preferisco A a B or preferisco A piuttosto che B. preferisco comes from the verb preferire. For more information on -ire verbs like preferire, see page 268.

I prefer...


Preferisco un contratto scritto.
I prefer a written contract.


Preferisco pagare a rate.
I prefer to pay in instalments.


Preferiamo non firmare nulla per ora.
We prefer not to sign anything for now.


Preferisco le foto in bianco e nero a quelle a colori.
I prefer black and white photos to colour ones.


Preferisco avere un contratto piuttosto che usare una scheda.
I prefer to have a contract rather than using top-up cards.



Use preferirei che (I'd rather) followed by the verb in the subjunctive to say that you'd rather someone did something. For more information on the subjunctive, see page 273.

I'd rather...


Preferirei che mi rimborsasse.
I'd rather You gave me my money back.


Preferirei che mi spedisse la pratica per posta.
I'd rather You sent me the file by post.


Preferirei che ci telefonasse prima di venire.
I'd rather You phoned before dropping in.


LISTEN OUT FOR
Here are some key phrases which you are likely to hear when obtaining services.


Prego, desidera?
Can I help You?


Sarà pronto domani.
It'll be ready tomorrow.


Non è ancora pronto.
It's not ready yet.


Ha lo scontrino?
Have You got your receipt?


Ha bisogno di una ricevuta?
Do You need a receipt?


Ha un documento d'identità?
Have You got some identification?


A che ora le andrebbe meglio?
What time would suit You best?


Ha un appuntamento?
Have You got an appointment?


Richiami domani, per favore.
Please ring back tomorrow.


Come vuole pagare?
How would You like to pay?


A chi tocca?
Who's next?


Mi dispiace, siamo chiusi il lunedì.
Sorry, we are closed on Mondays.


Deve andare all'altro sportello.
You need to go to the other counter.


Magari telefoni prima di venire di person.
It may be best to phone before coming in persona.




Lifestyle Tips
• When getting things done, you'll need to to know about l'orario di apertura (opening times). Shops and businesses such as hairdresser's, dry cleaner's and so on usually open at around nine in the morning and close at seven at night in Italy. Some shops close for a couple of hours at lunchtime. Public services tend to close early in the afternoon.
• In the past it was common to take a very long lunch break (with people working proportionately later in the evening) but increasingly people work l'orario continuato (non-stop hours), with just a short break for lunch.
• Except in the bigger towns, most businesses close on Sundays, and many close on Mondays too, so that employees can have a two-day break.
• When you walk along shopping streets in August you'll see many shops and restaurants with a sign saying chiuso per ferie (closed for the holidays). The middle of August is the peak time for people to take holidays, and businesses are often closed then for two weeks.
• Italians use a debit card called la carta Bancomat more than credit cards - but credit cards are now much more widely accepted than in the past. When you hand over your credit card you may be asked Carta o Bancomat? to which you should reply Carta (credit card). The next thing you hear may be Può digitare il codice? (Type in your PIN!).
• In Italy banks have security doors. To get in, you press a button marked Premere per entrare (Press to enter), and the outer door opens, letting you into a glass cabin, where you wait for the inner door to open.
• If you want to make an appointment at the hairdresser's and so forth, the word for an appointment is appuntamento. For instance, you could say vorrei fissare un appuntamento per giovedì mattina (I'd like to make an appointment for Thursday morning).
• By law in Italy lo scontrino (a receipt) has to be given to a customer who has paid for goods or services, and receipts have to be accepted. This is why, if you are leaving a counter without picking up your receipt, you will always be reminded to do so.










Tanti auguri di pronta guarigione! - Get well soon!
If you happen to be taken ill, have an accident, get toothache or need some kind of medical advice while in Italy, the phrases in this section will give you the confidence to talk to a doctor, dentist or pharmacist to help you get what you need.
DESCRIBING THE PROBLEM

You may find yourself in a situation where you have to describe what the problem is. To do this, you can generally use ho. This comes from the verb avere (to have). For more information on avere, see page 279.

I've got a...


Ho febbre.
I've got a temperature.


Ho il raffreddore.
I've got a cold.


Ho la pressione alta.
I have high blood pressure.


Ho tachicardia.
I've been having palpitations.


Non so cos'ho.
I don't know what's wrong with me.


Mio figlio soffre di mal di cuore.
My son has a heart condition.


I've got a ...ache


Ho mal di testa.
I've got a headache.


Ho mal di stomaco.
I've got stomachache.


Ha mal di denti.
She's got toothache.


Ho mal di schiena.
My back is sore.


Mi fa male qui.
It hurts here.


I feel...


Mi sento sempre stanco.
I feel tired all the time.


Mi sento malissimo.
I feel awful.


Adesso mi sento meglio.
I'm feeling better now.


Ieri mi sentivo bene.
I felt fine yesterday.



If you've had some kind of accident, you will probably need to explain what happened. You can use ho or sono followed by the past participle. Ho and sono come from the verbs avere (to have) and essere (to be). For more information on these verbs and on the past tense, see pages 279, 282 and 269.

I've...


Ho avuto un incidente.
I've had an accident.


Ho sbattuto la testa.
I've bumped my head.


Sono caduto dalle scale.
I fell down the stairs.


Mi è saltata un'otturazione.
I've lost a filling.


Si è scottata sulla stufa.
She burnt herself on the heater.


I've never...


Non ho mai avuto un mal di testa così forte.
I've never had such a bad headache.


Non ha mai avuto un attacco.
He's never had a fit before.


Non sono mai stata così male.
I've never felt so ill.


Non mi era mai successo.
It's never happened to me before.



You may be unlucky enough to have had a more serious accident. To say that you have broken something, use mi sono rotto... or, if you are a woman, mi sono rotta... (I've broken...).

I've broken...


Mi sono rotto la clavicola l'anno scorso.
I broke my collarbone last year.


Si è rotto una gamba.
He's broken his leg.


Si è rotta un dente.
She's broken a tooth.


Credo di essermi rotta il braccio.
I think I've broken my arm.


Mi sono slogato la caviglia.
I've sprained my ankle.



BUONO A SAPERSI!
Italian speakers say I've broken a leg or the ankle and so on instead of I have broken my leg or my ankle and so on.

ASKING FOR INFORMATION

When you need information you may have to get someone's attention in order to ask them a question. To do this you can use either scusi or mi scusi. You can use C'è...? or Ci sono...? to ask Is there...? or Are there...?.

Is there...?


Scusi, c'è un ospedale qui vicino?
Excuse me, is there a hospital near here?


Ci sono farmacie di turno qui vicino?
Are there any pharmacies open near here?


Sa se c'è un dentista in questa zona?
Do You know if there's a dentist in this area?


Scusi, dove posso trovare un medico?
Excuse me, where can I find a doctor?


Mi scusi, dove posso trovare un pronto soccorso?
Excuse me please, where can I find an A&E department?



When you need an explanation of what something is exactly, or what it's for, use Cos'è...? (What is...?) or Cosa sono...? (What are...?). For other questions asking for information, use Che...? (What...?) or Quale...? (Which...?).

What is...?


Cos'è questa medicina?
What is this medicine?


Cosa sono queste compresse?
What are these tablets?


Per cosa sono queste compresse?
What are these tablets for?


Che numero si fa per chiamare un'ambulanza?
What's the number to call for an ambulance?


Qual è l'indirizzo dell'ospedale?
What's the address of the hospital?


Which...?


In quale via si trova la clinica?
Which street is the clinic in?


Mi può dire in quale reparto è?
Can you tell me which ward she's in?


Con quale dottore posso prendere appuntamento?
Which doctor can I get an appointment with?


Quale è meglio per le punture d'insetti?
Which is best for insect bites?



In order to get more specific information, you may need to ask questions such as Come...? (How...?) or Quando...? (When...?).

How...?


Come si fa a prendere appuntamento con il dentista?
How do you make an appointment with the dentist?


Come va presa questa medicina?
How do you take this medicine?


Come si fa per iscrivirsi al Servizio Sanitario nazionale?
How do we register with Social Security?


When...?


Quando devo fare l'iniezione?
When do I have to have the injection?


Quando viene il medico?
When is the doctor coming?


Quando comincia l'orario delle visite?
When does visiting time start?


Quando devo prendere le pasticche?
When do I have to take the tablets?


A che ora apre l'ambulatorio?
What time does the doctor's surgery open?



If you want to ask Is it...?, you can start questions just with È...? (Is it...?).

Is it...?


È grave?
Is it serious?


È contagioso?
Is it infectious?


Is the...?


È lontano l'ospedale?
Is the hospital far?


È aperto di pomeriggio il poliambulatorio?
Is the health centre open in the afternoon?



BUONO A SAPERSI!
When you want to ask Is the...? in Italian you put the thing you're asking about (for example, hospital, health centre) last.

ASKING FOR THINGS

When you want to find out if something is available, for example, medication or medical help, use Ha...? (Have You got...?) or Avete...? (Have you got...?). They both come from the verb avere (to have). For more information on avere, see page 279.

Have you got...?


Ha qualcosa per il mal di testa?
Have You got anything for a headache?


Ha qualcosa per la febbre da fieno?
Have You got anything for hay fever?


Avete un numero di telefono per le emergenze?
Do you have an emergency telephone number?


Avete tachipirina per bambini?
Do you have infant paracetamol?



If you want to ask for something in Italian, use Mi dà...? (Can I have...?). dà comes from the verb dare (to give). For more information on dare, see page 280.

Can I have...?


Mi dà un appuntamento per domani, per favore?
Can I have an appointment for tomorrow, please?


Mi dà una confezione di aspirina, per favore?
Can I have a packet of aspirins, please?


Mi dà una fascia di ricambio?
Can I have a spare bandage?


Can I...?


Posso vedere il dentista stamattina?
Can I see the dentist this morning?


Posso parlare con un pediatra adesso?
Can I talk to a paediatrician right away?


Posso bere alcolici con questa medicina?
Can I drink alcohol with this medicine?


Quando possiamo passare a prendere i risultati?
When can we get the results?



If you are asking someone whether they can do something for you, you should use Può...? (Can You...?) or Potrebbe...? (Could You...?). può and potrebbe come from the verb potere (to be able). For more information on potere, see page 284.

Can you...?


Mi può prescrivere qualcosa per il mal d'orecchi, per favore?
Can You prescribe something for earache, please?


Può mandare un'ambulanza immediatamente?
Can You send an ambulance immediately?


Può chiamare un medico, per
Can You call a doctor, please? favore?


Può darmi qualche cosa per il bambino che sta mettendo i denti?
Can You give me something for my baby as he's teething?


Could you...?


Ci potrebbe portare all'ospedale più vicino?
Could You take us to the nearest hospital?


Potrebbe controllarmi la pressione?
Could You check my blood pressure?


Mi potrebbe dare un appuntamento per una visita di controllo?
Would You mind giving me an appointment for a checkup?


Le dispiacerebbe trovarmi un'infermiera che parli inglese?
Would You mind finding me an English- speaking nurse?


SAYING WHAT YOU WANT TO DO

If you want to say what you'd like to do in Italian, use vorrei (I'd like). vorrei comes from the verb volere (to want). For more information on volere, see page 285.

I'd like to...


Vorrei prendere appuntamento con il medico.
I'd like to make an appointment with the doctor.


Vorrei vedere un dentista subito.
I'd like to see a dentist straightaway.


Vorrei comprare qualcosa per la tosse.
I'd like to buy something for a cough.


Vorrei farmi fare un'otturazione.
I'd like to have a tooth filled.


I'd rather...


Preferirei andare in una clinica privata.
I'd rather go to a private hospital.


Preferirei vedere una dottoressa piuttosto che un dottore.
I'd rather see a female doctor than a male one.


Preferirei prendere delle pasticche piuttosto che fare un'iniezione.
I'd rather take tablets than have an injection.


Preferiamo i rimedi naturali.
We prefer natural remedies.



In Italian you can tell somebody what you need by using ho bisogno di (I need).

I need...


Ho bisogno della pillola del giorno dopo.
I need the morning-after pill.


Ho bisogno della ricetta?
Do I need a prescription?


Abbiamo bisogno di un medico che possa venire qui.
We need a doctor who can come here.


Dobbiamo chiamare urgentemente un'ambulanza.
We urgently need to call an ambulance.


MAKING SUGGESTIONS

You may wish to make a suggestion in Italian. One way of doing this is to use potremmo (we could). This comes from the verb potere (to be able). For more information on potere, see page 284.

We could...


Potremmo chiedere in farmacia.
We could ask in the chemist's.


Potremmo prendere degli antidolorifici in farmacia.
We could get some painkillers at the chemist's.


Potremmo telefonare alla famiglia.
We could phone his family.



Another way of making suggestions in Italian is to ask Perché non...? (Why don't...?).

Why don't...?


Perché non chiamiamo un medico?
Why don't we call a doctor?


Perché non chiediamo un appuntamento col cardiologo?
Why don't we ask for an appointment with the heart specialist?


Perché non chiediamo come vanno presi gli antibiotici?
Why don't we ask how the antibiotics should be taken?


Perché non spiega il problema al medico?
Why don't You explain the problem to the doctor?


LISTEN OUT FOR
Here are some key phrases which you are likely to hear at the doctor's or the hospital.


Come sta?
How are You?


Cosa succede?
What seems to be the problem?


Ha febbre?
Have You got a temperature?


Da quanto si sente così?
How long have You been feeling like this?


Soffre di altre malattie?
Do You have any existing medical conditions?


Prende altri farmaci?
Are You on any other medication?


Soffre di nausea?
Do You feel sick?


Le gira la testa?
Do You feel dizzy?


Dove le fa male?
Where does it hurt?


Se vuole togliersi la camicia.
Would You mind taking off your shirt?


Può rivestirsi.
You can get dressed.


Non beva alcolici insieme a questo farmaco.
Don't drink alcohol while you're taking this medicine.


Riempia questo modulo, per
Please fill in this form. favore.


Mi dà gli estremi della sua assicurazione medica?
Can I have your medical insurance details?


I risultati sono buoni.
The results are fine.


Mi faccia sapere se i sintomi persistono.
Let me know if the symptoms don't go away.




Lifestyle Tips
• If you think you need a doctor, you can go to il Pronto Soccorso - the A&E department of a hospital.
• If you visit a doctor or dentist, you may be given una ricetta (a prescription) to take to la farmacia (the chemist's). The prescription charge is called il ticket. Not everyone has to pay a prescription charge - pensioners, people on low incomes and the unemployed, for instance, are exempt.
• When going to a health professional in Italy, you will be asked for your carta europea d'assicurazione malattia - your European Health Insurance Card - which now replaces the E111 form. Like its predecessor, this card aims to make access to healthcare in any EU country hassle-free for all citizens of EU member states. It also enables you to reclaim medical costs.
• In Italy, le farmacie (chemist's) are easily recognizable from a distance thanks to the croce verde (green cross) sign displayed outside them. You can ask pharmacists about minor health problems - they are qualified to give advice and can dispense some medicines without a doctor's prescription. They can also refer you to a local doctor.
• There is always a farmacia di turno (duty chemist's) open when other chemists are shut. Its address will be prominently displayed outside all the other local pharmacies as well as in local newspapers.
• In an emergency phone 118 and ask for ospedale or ambulanza.
• Until recently in Italy smoking was very prevalent in all public places, including hospitals. Tough anti-smoking legislation has now banned smoking in the workplace, and in bars and restaurants, and a lot of people are giving up.
• In Italy when someone sneezes, you can say Salute! (Bless you! or literally To your health!).
• Italians tend to be specific when they're running a temperature, saying for example, Ho 39 di febbre (My temperature is 39 degrees).










Niente paura! - Don't worry!
If you find yourself in a situation in Italy in which you need help, for example if you break down, are involved in an accident or are robbed, or even if you simply can't get the heating to come on, the phrases in this unit will give the language to help you cope with confidence.
DESCRIBING THE PROBLEM

If you are asking somebody for help of some kind, you will need to be able to describe what the problem is. Use c'è and ci sono to say there is and there are, and non c'è and non ci sono to say there isn't any or there aren't any.

There is...


C'è odore di gas nella mia stanza.
There's a smell of gas in my room.


Ci sono scarafaggi nell'appartamento.
There are cockroaches in the apartment.


Non c'è sapone in bagno.
There isn't any soap in the bathroom.


Non ci sono asciugamani nella stanza.
There aren't any towels in my room.


C'è stato un incidente.
There's been an accident.



You may need to explain exactly what the problem is - you can often use ho (I've got) or non ho (I haven't got). ho comes from the verb avere (to have). For more information on avere, see page 279.

I've got...


Ho un problema.
I've got a problem.


Ho una ruota a terra.
I've got a flat tyre.


Non ho una pompa.
I haven't got a pump.


Siamo stati derubati e non abbiamo abbastanza soldi per tornare a casa.
We've been robbed and we haven't got enough money to get back home.



The problem you are having may be because you are not able to do something. In Italian you can use non riesco a to say what you can't do.

I can't...


Non riesco a far partire la macchina.
I can't get the car to start.


Non riesco ad accendere il boiler - è rotto.
I can't light the boiler - it's broken.


Non riusciamo ad aprire la porta della camera da letto.
We can't open the door to the bedroom.



It may be, however, that you do not know how to do something. In Italian you would use non so to talk about what you don't know how to do.

I can't...


Non so cambiare una gomma.
I can't change a tyre.


Non so guidare.
I can't drive.


Non so parlare italiano molto bene.
I can't speak Italian very well.



If you want to say that you don't understand something, use non capisco.

I don't understand...


Non capisco cosa intende.
I don't understand what You mean.


Mi dispiace, ma non capisco le istruzioni.
I'm sorry but I don't understand the instructions.


Non capiamo perché non funziona.
We can't understand why it's not working.


SAYING WHAT HAPPENED

You will probably need to explain to somebody what happened. You can use ho followed by the past participle. ho and sono come from the verbs avere (to have) and essere (to be). For more information on forming the past tense, see page 269.

I have...


Ho perso il passaporto.
I've lost my passport.


Ho avuto un incidente.
I've had an accident.


La mia valigia non è arrivata.
My case hasn't arrived.


Ci siamo chiusi fuori dall'appartamento.
We've locked ourselves out of the apartment.


Siamo in panne.
We've broken down.


Abbiamo finito la benzina.
We've run out of petrol.


I've been...


Mi hanno aggredita.
I've been mugged.


Mi hanno svaligiato la casa.
I've been burgled.


Hanno forzato la serratura della mia macchina.
My car's been broken into.


Mi hanno scippato.
My bag's been snatched.


Ci hanno fatto pagare troppo.
We've been overcharged.


DESCRIBING PEOPLE AND THINGS

If you have some kind of problem in Italy you may need to be able to give a description of someone or something. To do this you can simply use è (it is) or sono (they are) followed by an adjective. è and sono come from the verb essere (to be). For more information on essere, see page 282.

It is...


È una macchina nera sportiva.
It's a black sports car.


È un telefono cellulare con fotocamera.
It's a camera phone.


Sono documenti molto importanti.
They're very important documents.


La borsa è rossa.
The bag's red.


La valigia è verde ed ha le ruote.
The suitcase is green and has wheels.


Il mio portafoglio è di pelle.
My wallet's made of leather.



You may also be asked to give more details about yourself or somebody else, for example, age, hair colour and so on. To do this, you can use the verb avere (to have) or, sometimes, essere (to be). For more information on avere and essere, see pages 279 and 282.

He's got...


Ha i capelli biondi corti.
He's got short blond hair.


Ha i capelli castani.
She's got brown hair.


Ha gli occhi verdi.
She's got green eyes.


Entrambi hanno gli occhi marroni.
They both have brown eyes.



BUONO A SAPERSI!
Remember that in Italian you use the article before the part of the body you are talking about, for example, Ho i capelli corti (I have short hair), Ha le gambe lunghe (She has long legs).

He's...


Ha cinque anni.
He's five.


Ha otto anni.
She's eight.


Ho trent'anni.
I'm thirty.


È alto e di aspetto piuttosto giovanile.
He's tall and quite young-looking.


È piuttosto magra.
She's rather thin.


She's wearing...


Indossa jeans e una maglietta verde.
She's wearing jeans and a green T-shirt.


Ha un vestito arancione.
She's wearing an orange dress.


Indossava pantaloni neri.
He was wearing black trousers.


ASKING FOR INFORMATION

When you need information you may have to get someone's attention in order to ask them a question. To do this you can use either scusi or mi scusi. If you are asking somebody younger, use scusa or scusami.

Excuse me...?


Scusi, c'è un'officina nei paraggi?
Excuse me, is there a garage around here?


Mi scusi, ci sono alberghi qui vicino?
Excuse me, are there any hotels near here?


Scusa, c'è un elettricista in questa zona?
Excuse me, is there an electrician in this area?


Scusami, hai l'ora?
Excuse me, do you have the time?



In order to obtain specific information, for example what to choose, how to do something, when something will happen or how much it will cost, you may want to ask Quale...? or Che...? (Which...?), Come...? (How...?), Quando...? (When...?) or Quanto...? (How much...?).

Which...?


Quale idraulico mi consiglia?
Which plumber do You recommend?


Quali documenti devo presentare?
Which documents do I need to show?


Scusi, che numero si fa per chiamare la polizia?
Excuse me, what number do I dial for the police?


How...?


Come facciamo a denunciare un furto?
How do we report a theft?


Come si fa a prendere la linea esterna?
How do I get an outside line?


Scusi, come si arriva all'officina?
Excuse me, how do we get to the garage?


Mi può dire come facciamo a recuperare la valigia?
Can You tell me how we can get the suitcase back?


When...?


Quando viene a riparare il condizionatore d'aria?
When will You come to fix the air conditioning?


Quando recapitate la valigia?
When will you deliver the suitcase?


Quando posso portare la macchina in officina?
When can I bring the car in?


Sa quando potremo vedere l'avvocato?
Do You know when we'll be able to see the lawyer?


How much...?


Quanto costerà far riparare la macchina?
How much will it cost to repair the car?


Mi può dire quanto mi costa ripararlo?
Can You tell me how much You will charge to fix this?


Quanto costa l'iscrizione?
How much are the registration fees?


ASKING FOR THINGS

If you want to ask for something in Italian, use Mi dà...? or Mi può dare...? (Can I have...?). Use mi dai or mi puoi dare with people you call tu. dà and dai come from the verb dare (to give). For more information on dare, see page 280.

Can I have...?


Mi dà un'altra coperta, per favore?
Can I have another blanket, please?


Mi può dare un altro modulo?
Can I have another form?


Mi dai il tuo numero di telefono?
Can I have your phone number?


Mi puoi dare il cellulare per una
Can I borrow your mobile to make an chiamata urgente?
 urgent call?



If you want to find out if something is available, use Ha...? or, more informally, Hai...? (Do you have...?). They both come from the verb avere (to have). For more information on avere, see page 279.

Do you have...?


Mi scusi, ha questo documento in inglese?
Excuse me, do You have this document in English?


Scusi, ha un opuscolo con informazioni su questa zona?
Excuse me, do You have a brochure about this area?


Hai dei cavi per la batteria?
Do you have jump leads?



If you are asking someone whether they can do something for you, you should use Può...? (Can You...?) or Potrebbe...? (Could You...?). Use puoi or potresti with people you call tu. They all come from the verb potere (to be able). For more information on potere, see page 284.

Can you...?


Può chiamare la polizia?
Can You call the police?


Potrebbe mostrarmi come funziona la doccia?
Could You show me how the shower works?


Mi potrebbe fare un preventivo, per favore?
Could You give me an estimate, please?


Mi puoi aiutare, per favore?
Can you help me, please?


Potresti consigliarmi un elettricista?
Could you recommend an electrician?


SAYING WHAT YOU WANT TO DO

You may need to be able to say what you want or what you'd like to do in Italian. To do this, you can use either voglio (I want) or vorrei (I'd like). They both come from the verb volere (to want). For more information on volere, see page 285.

I want to...


Voglio denunciare un furto.
I want to report a theft.


Voglio parlare con un avvocato.
I want to speak to a lawyer.


Vorrei telefonare.
I'd like to make a call.


I don't want to...


Non voglio restare in questa stanza.
I don't want to stay in this room.


Non voglio lasciare qua la macchina.
I don't want to leave my car here.


Non vogliamo andare in albergo senza i bagagli.
We don't want to go to the hotel without our luggage.



If you want to say what your preference is, use preferirei (I'd rather), from the verb preferire. For more information on -ire verbs like preferire, see page 268.

I'd rather...


Preferirei prendere un avvocato che parli l'inglese.
I'd rather use a lawyer who can speak English.


Preferirei stare al piano terrapiuttosto che al primo piano.
I'd rather be on the ground floor than on the first floor.


Preferiremmo leggere i documenti in inglese, se possibile.
We'd rather read the documents in English, if possible.


SAYING WHAT YOU HAVE TO DO

You may want to say what you have to do in Italian. Use devo (I have to) followed by the verb in the infinitive. devo comes from the verb dovere (to have to). For more information on dovere and the infinitive, see pages 281 and 267.

I have to...


Devo andare all'ambasciata britannica.
I have to go to the British embassy.


Devo ricaricare il cellulare.
I have to charge my phone.


Devo parlare con un avvocato.
I must speak to a lawyer.



You can also use ho bisogno di (I need) with the verb in the infinitive.

I need...


Ho bisogno di un nuovo pneumatico.
I need a new tyre.


Ho bisogno di fare una telefonata.
I need to make a call.


Ho bisogno di chiamare un elettricista.
I need to call an electrician.


MAKING SUGGESTIONS

You may wish to make a suggestion to your Italian-speaking acquaintances. One way of doing this is to use potremmo (we could). potremmo comes from the verb potere (to be able). For more information on potere, see page 284.

We could...


Potremmo chiamare un
We could call a locksmith. fabbro.


Potremmo chiedere a qualcuno il numero di un elettricista.
We could ask someone for the number of an electrician.


Potremmo sempre andare all'ufficio oggetti smarriti.
We could always go to the lost property office.



To suggest doing something, you can also use E se...? (How about...?) followed by a verb in the imperfect subjunctive. For more information on the subjunctive, see page 273.

How about...?


E se parlassimo con un avvocato?
How about talking to a lawyer?


E se chiamassimo il suo consolato?
How about calling Your consulate?


E se segnalassimo il guasto alla portineria?
How about reporting the fault to reception?



Another way of making suggestions is to ask Perché non...? (Why don't...?).

Why don't...?


Perché non chiediamo aiuto ai vicini?
Why don't we ask the neighbours for help?


Perché non chiamiamo la portineria?
Why don't we call reception?


Perché non va in commissariato a denunciare il furto?
Why don't You go to the police station to report the theft?


TALKING ABOUT YOUR PLANS

In English we often say I'm going to to talk about the future. To say that you're going to do something in Italian you can use the future tense or often simply the present tense.

I'm going to...


Chiamerò l'officina.
I'm going to phone the garage.


Chiamo soccorso col cellulare.
I'm going to call for help on my mobile.


Chiameremo un elettricista per riparare l'impianto elettrico.
We're going to phone an electrician to fix the wiring.


Ci chiamate quando è pronta?
Will you call us when it's ready?



You can also express your intentions by saying Ho intenzione di... (I intend to...) followed by the infinitive.

I intend to...


Ho intenzione di denunciare il furto alla polizia.
I intend to report the theft to the police.


Ho intenzione di parlare con un avvocato.
I intend to talk to a lawyer.


Ha intenzione di rimorchiare la nostra macchina?
Are You going to tow our car away?


Avete intenzione di venire oggi?
Are you going to come out today?


LISTEN OUT FOR
Here are some key phrases which you are likely to hear when you have some kind of problem.


Qual è il problema?
What's the problem?


Che è successo?
What happened?


Mi dà gli estremi dell'assicurazione?
Can I have Your insurance details?


Cosa hanno rubato?
What's been taken?


Mi date il vostro indirizzo, per favore?
Can I have your address, please?


Di dove siete?
Where are you from?


Dove alloggia?
Where are You staying?


Favorisca la patente, prego.
Can I have Your driving licence?


C'erano testimoni?
Were there any witnesses?


Compili questo modulo, per cortesia.
Please fill in this form.


È previsto un addebito per
There'll be a call-out charge. l'intervento.



Lifestyle Tips
• If you have to report a crime such as a car theft or mugging to the police in Italy, you'll need to go to the commissariato di polizia or the questura (police station) where you'll have to fare una denuncia (file a report).
• In Italy there are two police forces: the polizia di stato, and the carabinieri, who are soldiers and have a military-style uniform. The functions of the two forces are complementary, and you can seek help from either. If you lose your passport you should go to the questura.
• The vigili urbani are similar to traffic wardens - they direct traffic and hand out parking fines. The traffic police are the polizia stradale.
• The general emergency phone number in Italy is 113: it gets you through to the polizia. There are other emergency numbers for specific services: dial 112 for the carabinieri, 115 for the vigili del fuoco (fire brigade), 116 for soccorso stradale (roadside assistance) and 118 for an ambulanza (ambulance). On motorways there are emergency phones every 2km. One has a green spanner symbol for breakdowns, and the other has a red cross for a medical emergency.
• As in the UK, if you're driving around Italy, you'll need to be careful where you park if you want to avoid paying una contravvenzione or multa (a fine) or having your car clamped or towed away by the carro attrezzi (tow truck) and then having to get it back at great expense from the depositeria (pound). Make sure you look at any signs and ask Cosa vuol dire quel cartello? (What does this sign mean?) if you don't understand them.










Pronto, chi parla? - Who's calling please?
Talking on the phone is one of the hardest things to do in a foreign language, because you can't see the person you're speaking to, and therefore you can't rely on body language and facial expressions to help you understand and communicate. This unit gives you the language to overcome this and to help you to sound natural and confident when speaking on the phone in Italian. It also covers other means of communication, whether it's email, texting or the good old post.
MAKING A TELEPHONE CALL
The Italian expressions for calling someone are telefonare a qualcuno (to phone somebody) and dare un colpo di telefono a qualcuno (to give somebody a ring). The second one is less formal, just as it is in English. If you want to tell someone that you need to make a phone call, use devo (I need to). devo comes from the verb dovere (to have to). For more information on dovere, see page 281.
I need to...


Devo fare una telefonata.
I need to make a call.


Devo telefonare a mia moglie.
I need to phone my wife.


Devo dare un colpo di telefono al mio amico.
I need to give my friend a ring.


Non scordarti che devi richiamare la mamma stasera.
Don't forget you need to call your mum back tonight.


Dobbiamo chiamare l'Inghilterra.
We need to call England.



If you want to ask if someone has something, for example a telephone number, use Ha...? (Do You have...?), Hai...? (Do you have...?) or Avete...? (Do you have...?).

Do you have...?


Ha il numero di casa della signora Kay, per favore?
Do You have Mrs Kay's home number, please?


Hai un numero di cellulare?
Do you have a mobile number?


Avete un numero di fax?
Do you have a fax number?



You can ask for something such as a telephone number in Italian by using Che...? or Quale...? (What...?), or Qual è...? (What's...?).

What...?


Quale linea posso usare per telefonare?
What line can I use to make a call?


Che numero faccio per prendere la linea esterna?
What number do I dial to get an outside line?


What's...?


Qual è il suo numero di telefono?
What's her phone number?


Qual è il numero del pronto soccorso?
What's the number for A&E?


Qual è il prefisso per l'Irlanda?
What's the dialling code for Ireland?


WHEN THE NUMBER YOU'RE CALLING ANSWERS

Once you've made the call and someone answers, you will need to say hello and tell them who's calling. To do this use Pronto? (literally meaning ready), which is always the same whether it's a man or a woman who's speaking on the phone. Always make sure you introduce yourself to the person who picks up the phone using sono... or parla... (this is...).

Hello, this is...


Pronto, sono la signora Bancroft.
Hello, this is Mrs Bancroft.


Pronto, sono Giulia, ti disturbo?
Hi, this is Giulia, is this a bad time?


Pronto signor Franceschini, parla Michelle.
Hello Mr Franceschini, this is Michelle speaking.


Buonasera signora Paoletti, sono la signora Marsh.
Good evening Mrs Paoletti, this is Mrs Marsh speaking.


Buongiorno, c'è Stefania? Sono Marie.
Hello, is Stefania in? This is Marie.


Ciao Tarik, sono Julia.
Hi Tarik, Julia here.


I'm...


Sono una collega di Nicola.
I'm a colleague of Nicola's.


Sono un amico di Stefano.
I'm a friend of Stefano's.


Sono la figlia del signor Nichol.
I'm Mr Nichol's daughter.


Pronto, sono l'inquilina di via Bramante 6.
Hello, I'm the tenant in via Bramante 6.



If you want to ask for somebody in particular, use C'è...? (Is... there?) or Ci sono...? (Are... there?).

Is... there?


C'è Martina, per favore?
Is Martina there, please?


Mi può dire se c'è la signora Paoletti?
Could you tell me if Mrs Paoletti is in?


Ci sono Martina e Roberto, per favore?
Are Martina and Roberto there, please?


Sono in casa i tuoi genitori?
Are your parents in?



BUONO A SAPERSI!
If the person you want to speak to isn't there, the answer you may hear is mi dispiace, non c'è which means sorry, he's (or she's) not here.

Is that...?


Parlo con Mario?
Is that Mario?


Parlo col commissariato di polizia?
Is that the police station?


Parlo con lo 08 13 76 89 98?
Is this 08 13 76 89 98?


Questo è il numero del municipio, vero?
This is the number for the town hall, isn't it?



BUONO A SAPERSI!
Remember to use the article in Italian when you are talking about a telephone number, as in Mi passa il 37 45 96?. Use lo instead of il when the number starts with zero: Mi passa lo 040 39 78 55?. For more on how to read out Italian numbers, see pages 180-181.


There are several ways of asking whether you may do something. You can start your question with posso (Can I...?) or potrei (Could I...?). They both come from the verb potere (to be able). For more information on potere, see page 284.

May I...?


Potrei parlare con il direttore, per favore?
Could I speak to the manager, please?


Posso parlare con Sabrina, per favore?
Can I speak to Sabrina, please?


Potrei avere il numero dell'Hotel Europa?
Could I have the number of the Europa hotel?


STARTING A CONVERSATION

One of the first things you might want to ask when you speak to someone is how they are. To do this you can use Come sta? (How are You?) or less formally, Come stai?. Come va? can also be used.

How are you?


Come sta, signora Prandi?
How are you, Mrs Prandi?


Come stai, Mario?
How are you, Mario?


Buongiorno Signora, come va?
Good morning, how are You?


Ciao Silvia, come va?
Hello Silvia, how's it going?


Come va la vita?
How's life?



BUONO A SAPERSI!
If you use Come va? you don't have to change it according to who you're speaking to.


In response to being asked how you are, you can use several different phrases.

Fine, thanks.


Bene, grazie, e lei?
I'm fine, thanks, how about You?


Bene, grazie, e tu?
Fine, thanks, and you?


Non c'è male, e tu?
Not bad. And yourself?


Non tanto bene, ultimamente.
I haven't been too good lately.


SAYING WHY YOU'RE CALLING

In the course of the telephone call you will often want to explain to someone why you are calling or where you're calling from. To do this, you can use the verb chiamare (to call). For more information on -are verbs like chiamare, see page 268.

I'm phoning about...


Chiamo per parlare con Maria.
I'm phoning to talk to Maria.


Chiamo per avere ulteriori informazioni sulle vostre tariffe.
I'm phoning to get further details on your rates.


Chiamo a proposito di domani sera.
I'm phoning about tomorrow night.


Chiamo a proposito del vostro annuncio sul giornale.
I'm phoning about your ad in the paper.


I'm calling from...


Chiamo da una cabina.
I'm calling from a public phone.


Chiamo dal cellulare.
I'm calling from my mobile.


La chiamo dall'ufficio.
I'm calling You from work.


Sono in treno.
I'm on the train.



If you want to ask whether you can do something, use Posso...? (Can I...?).

Can I...?


Posso lasciare un messaggio?
Can I leave a message?


Posso richiamare?
Can I call back later?


Le posso lasciare il mio numero?
Can I leave my number with You, please?



If you are asking someone whether they can do something for you, you should use Può...? (Can You...?) or Potrebbe...? (Could You...?). These come from the verb potere (to be able). For more information on potere, see page 284.

Can you...?


Gli può dire che ha chiamato Paul, per favore?
Can You tell him Paul rang, please?


Mi può passare Giovanna, per favore?
Can You put me through to Giovanna, please?


Gli può dare un messaggio da parte mia, per favore?
Can You give him message from me, please?


Le potrebbe dare un messaggio?
Could You give her a message?


Le potrebbe chiedere di richiamarmi, per favore?
Could You ask her to call me, please?


GIVING INFORMATION

When you make a phone call in Italian, you may well be asked to give certain pieces of information. To give your phone number or address, use il mio numero è (my number is) and il mio indirizzo è (my address is).

My number is...


Il mio numero di casa è...
My home phone number is...


... e il mio numero di cellulare è...
... and my mobile number is...


Il numero di telefono dell'albergo è...
My hotel phone number is...


Il mio numero di telefono fisso è...
My landline is...


My address is...


Il mio indirizzo a Genova è...
My address in Genoa is...


Il mio indirizzo in Inghilterra è...
My address in England is...


Abito al numero 6 di Maryhill Drive a Cork.
My home address is 6, Maryhill Drive, Cork.


Alloggio all'Hotel Mediterraneo.
I'm staying at the Mediterraneo Hotel.



To give details of where you can be contacted, you can use mi può contattare... (You can contact me...).

You can contact me...


Mi può contattare al numero di casa.
You can contact me on my home number.


Mi può contattare allo 09 98 02 46 23.
You can contact me on 09 98 02 46 23.


Mi puoi contattare sul mio cellulare.
You can contact me on my mobile.


La può trovare tra mezzogiorno e le due.
You can get her between twelve and two.


Mi puoi lasciare un messaggio sulla segreteria.
You can leave me a message on my answer phone.


ANSWERING THE TELEPHONE

You always answer the telephone with the Italian expression Pronto?. You use the same word Pronto to say hello when answering the phone as you do when making a phone call.

Hello?


Pronto?
Hello?


Pronto, chi parla?
Hello, who's calling, please?


Sì, pronto?
Hello?



If the person on the other end of the line asks for you, you answer sì, sono io (speaking).

Speaking.


Sì, sono io.
Speaking.


Sì, sono io, desidera?
Speaking, how can I help You?


Sì, sono io, chi parla?
Yes, speaking, who's calling, please?



When you answer the telephone you often need to ask whether the caller would like to leave a message, call back later and so on. Use Vuole...? to someone you don't know well, and Vuoi...? (Would you like to...?) to someone you know well. vuole and vuoi both come from the verb volere (to want). For more information on volere, see page 285.

Would you like to...?


Vuole lasciare un messaggio?
Would You like to leave a message?


Vuole richiamare più tardi?
Would You like to call back later?


Vuoi che ti richiami?
Would you like him to call you back?


Would you mind...?


Le dispiacerebbe parlare più lentamente, per favore?
Would You mind speaking more slowly, please?


Le dispiacerebbe ripetere, per favore? La sento male.
Would You mind saying that again, please? I can't hear You very well.


Le dispiacerebbe dirmi come si
Would You mind spelling that, please? scrive, per favore?


Ti dispiacerebbe richiamarmi domani?
Would you mind calling me back tomorrow?


ENDING A TELEPHONE CALL

When you end a telephone call in Italian, you can say goodbye as you normally would face to face. Use arrivederci to say goodbye to people you don't know well or to somebody older, and just ciao to a friend or to somebody young.

Goodbye!


Arrivederci, signor Franceschi!
Goodbye, Mr Franceschi!


Ciao, Maria!
Goodbye Maria!


Allora ciao, Emma. Ci sentiamo!
Right, bye Emma! Talk to you later!


Have a nice...!


Buona serata!
Have a nice evening!


Buona giornata!
Have a nice day!


Buon weekend!
Have a nice weekend!



To say See you...!, use a followed by domani (tomorrow), più tardi (later), stasera (tonight) and so on.

See you...!


A domani, Luigi!
See you tomorrow, Luigi!


A più tardi!
See you later!


A più tardi, signora!
See You later!


A stasera!
See you tonight!


A presto!
See you soon!



BUONO A SAPERSI!
Only use a più tardi if you expect to see someone later that day. Use ci vediamo if you'll be seeing them sometime in the future, but you don't know when.


As part of saying your goodbyes, you may want to send greetings or best wishes to other people. To do this, use mi saluti or, more informally, salutami (say hello to).

Say hello to...


Mi saluti sua moglie.
Say hello to Your wife for me.


Salutami la tua famiglia.
Say hello from me to your family.


Salutami tua sorella.
Say hi to your sister from me.


Tanti cari saluti a suo padre.
Give Your father my best wishes.



BUONO A SAPERSI!
You may be interested to know that the Italian for to hang up on someone is chiudere il telefono in faccia a qualcuno which literally means to shut the phone in somebody's face.


Occasionally you may have to finish a call quickly, especially on a mobile phone.

I've got hardly any... left


Ho il cellulare quasi scarico.
I've got hardly any battery left.


Ho quasi finito la scheda.
I've got hardly any credit left.



BUONO A SAPERSI!
Of course, the main reason for mobile calls ending suddenly is that the network coverage isn't adequate. To say that in Italian use non c'è campo. To tell someone that they're breaking up, use non ti sento, la linea è disturbata (I can't hear you, it's a bad line).

LISTEN OUT FOR
Here are some key phrases which you may hear when using the telephone.


Chi parla?
Who's calling, please?


Chi lo desidera?
Who shall I say is calling, please?


Attenda in linea.
Hold the line, please.


Un momento, ora lo chiamo.
Hang on a minute, I'll get him.


Mi dispiace, al momento non c'è.
I'm afraid she's not here.


Vuole lasciare un messaggio?
Would you like to leave a message?


Magari la richiama quando rientra.
He could call You back when he returns.


Ha sbagliato numero.
You've got the wrong number.


Ha il numero dell'interno?
Do You have the extension number?


Le passo l'interno.
I'll put You through.


Il numero da lei selezionato è inesistente.
The number You have dialled has not been recognized.


Il numero da lei selezionato è occupato.
The number You called is busy.


Questo è lo 09 73 47 60 21.
You've reached 09 73 47 60 21.


Lasciate un messaggio dopo il segnale acustico.
Please leave a message after the tone.


Per questa chiamata è previsto un addebito di 1 euro al minuto.
This call will be charged at 1 euro per minute.


I nostri operatori sono tutti impegnati, siete pregati di richiamare.
All our operators are busy, please call back later.


La vostra chiamata è stata inoltrata al servizio di segreteria.
Your call is being forwarded to the mobile messaging service.


Ti sento male.
I can't hear you.


Grazie della chiamata.
Thanks for calling.


WRITING LETTERS AND EMAILS

There will be times when you need to write a letter or send an email in Italian. Here are some useful phrases which you can use to do this. You can also have a look at examples of letters and emails in Italian.

Starting a personal letter or email


Cara Francesca,...
Dear Francesca,...


Cara zia,...
My dear aunt,...


Ciao Marco!
Hi Marco!


Carissimo Giorgio,...
Dear Giorgio,...


Carissimi Franca e Dario,...
Dear Franca and Dario,...


Mia cara Daniela,...
Dear Daniela,...


Ending a personal letter or email


Tanti cari saluti,...
Yours,...


Con affetto, Giorgia.
Love, Giorgia.


Un abbraccio, Luca.
Love, Luca.


A presto,
See you soon,


Tanti cari saluti a Fabrizio.
Send my best wishes to Fabrizio.


Bacioni, Carla.
Love, Carla.



WRITING A PERSONAL LETTER

Starting a formal letter or email


Caro dott. Franceschini,...
Dear Dr. Franceschini,...


Gent.ma Sig.ra Marullo,...
Dear Ms Marullo,...


Gent. Sig.na Rossi,...
Dear Miss Rossi,...


Egregio Prof. Gambini,...
Dear Prof. Gambini,...


Spett. Ditta,...
Dear Sirs,...


Ending a formal letter or email


Distinti saluti,
Yours faithfully/sincerely


Cordiali saluti,
Yours faithfully/sincerely


Le porgo i miei più distinti saluti,
Yours faithfully/sincerely



TEXTING

Texting is now as important a part of Italian communication as it is in the UK. A text message in Italian is called un SMS (esse emme esse). It remains unchanged in the plural: due SMS. The phrase to text somebody is mandare un SMS a qualcuno, and to receive a text message is ricevere un SMS.


If you would like to text in Italian, here are some abbreviations used in Italian text messaging.



Abbreviation
Italian
English


+ tardi
più tardi
later


+o-
più o meno
more or less


ba
bacio
kiss


bn
bene
well


C6?
ci sei?
are you there?


cs
cosa
what


c ved
ci vediamo
see you soon


dv
dove
where


k6?
chi sei?
who are you?


ke cs?
che cosa?
what?


tu6
tu sei
you are


k
che
that, what


qd
quando
when


nn
non
not


k fai?
che fai?
what are you doing?


qnd
quando
when


TVB
ti voglio bene
I love you


TVTB
ti voglio tanto bene
I love you so much


x
per
for


xke
perché
because


xke?
perché?
why?


TAT
ti amo tanto
love you loads




Lifestyle Tips
• It is best to avoid loud ringtones (suonerie) and mobile-phone conversations in public places in Italy, especially on public transport and in restaurants.
• If you have to send a text message or to make a phone call while in company, you may want to apologize and explain: scusi, devo fare una telefonata (sorry, I need to make a phone call) or devo mandare un SMS (I need to send a text message).
• In Italy, you may come across numero verde® phone numbers with the prefix 0800. They are free from a landline.
• As in Britain, the use of a telefono cellulare (mobile phone) is forbidden while driving. The use of hands-free kits is however allowed.
• If you want to use un Internet point or un cibercaffè (internet café) to check your email, you won't have to look far. To ask how much it costs you can say Quanto si paga? (How much does it cost?).
• Remember to take your passport with you when you go to a cibercafè or Internet point. Anti-terrorism legislation requires internet cafes to keep records of the names of users, and periodically to inform the police of what websites they have visited.










Tre, due, uno... via! - One, two, three... Go
I NUMERI - NUMBERS

When communicating in Italian you'll often need to say and understand numbers, so here's a list to help you.



0
zero


1
uno


2
due


3
tre


4
quattro


5
cinque


6
sei


7
sette


8
otto


9
nove


10
dieci


11
undici


12
dodici


13
tredici


14
quattordici


15
quindici


16
sedici


17
diciassette


18
diciotto


19
diciannove


20
venti



BUONO A SAPERSI!
Italian speakers never use the letter O to refer to zero (zero), as we do in English. Also, remember to say lo zero and uno zero. With all other numbers use il and un: il tre, il cinque and un tre, un cinque and so on. Use l' with numbers starting with a vowel: l'otto, l'ottocento, l'undici and so on. You can use il cinque to say number five, or the number five.


In Italian, the word uno (one) can change its ending. The masculine form uno is used before words beginning with the letter Z, with S + a consonant (ST, SP, SC, SR and so on) and PN and PS, for example, uno zaino (one rucksack), uno scolaro (one pupil) and so on. In all other cases use un (or una with feminine nouns). una becomes un' before words beginning with a vowel.

one


Quanti DVD hai comprato? - Solo
How many DVDs did you buy? - Only one. uno.


Ho un fratello.
I've got one brother.


Mi è rimasta solo una caramella.
I've only got one sweet left.


Quante pagine hai scritto? - Una.
How many pages have you written? - Una.





21
ventuno


22
ventidue


23
ventitré


24
ventiquattro


25
venticinque


26
ventisei


27
ventisette


28
ventotto


29
ventinove


30
trenta


31
trentuno


40
quaranta


41
quarantuno


42
quarantadue


50
cinquanta


51
cinquantuno


53
cinquantatré


60
sessanta


64
sessantaquattro


70
settanta


71
settantuno


75
settantacinque


80
ottanta


81
ottantuno


90
novanta


91
novantuno


99
novantanove



In Italian, except for uno/una, numbers are invariable, that is, they remain unchanged whether they are followed by a feminine, a masculine or a plural noun.

There are...


Ci sono trentatré studenti nell'aula.
There are thirty-three students in the classroom.


Ci sono ventuno donne in questo reparto.
There are twenty-one women in this department.


Ci sono trentun giorni in gennaio.
There are thirty-one days in January.


Ci saranno cinquantuno persone nel gruppo.
There'll be fifty-one people in the group.


C'erano ventun bambini alla festa.
There were twenty-one children at the party.



You may hear people say -un, instead of -uno at the end of a number, but you can always use -uno.



Ho meno di ventun anni.
I'm under twenty-one.



BUONO A SAPERSI!
In Italian you say ho... anni (I'm... years old) to say how old you are.


A few numbers can drop the final vowel and take an apostrophe ('), when followed by the word anni, as in novant'anni (90 years).

I'm... years old


Ho diciott'anni.
I'm eighteen years old.


Avrà settant'anni.
He must be around seventy.


Compie trent'anni in maggio.
He'll be thirty in May.


Quanti anni hai? - Ventuno.
How old are you? -Twenty-one.



BUONO A SAPERSI!
Just as in English, you can name a year by the last two digits, but you add the word for the, il novantotto ('98), nel novantotto (in '98). It doesn't apply to the noughties, however, so for '06 you would say duemilasei (two thousand and six).



100
cento


101
centouno


150
centocinquanta


200
duecento


300
trecento


400
quattrocento


500
cinquecento


600
seicento


700
settecento


800
ottocento


900
novecento



Like uno, cento (one hundred) can drop the final -o before anni, for example, cent'anni.

hundred


Ci sono cento centesimi in un euro.
There are one hundred cents in a euro.


Avete La carica dei centouno su DVD?
Do you have One Hundred and One Dalmatians on DVD?


Hai letto Cent'anni di solitudine?
Have you read One Hundred Years of Solitude?


Costa centocinquanta euro.
It costs one hundred and fifty euros.


Ci devono essere state più di duecento persone.
There must have been over two hundred people.


C'erano circa cinquecentocinquanta dipendenti nel palazzo.
There were around five hundred and fifty employees in the building.



In Italian, you can say centouno, centodue, centoventi for one hundred and one, one hundred and two, one hundred and twenty and so on. However, you can also separate the two numbers with an e (and), as in cento e uno (one hundred and one), cento e due (one hundred and two) and so on. uno will take the gender of the word that follows it: cento e una pagina (one hundred and one pages).

...hundred and...


Costa cento e ottanta euro.
It costs one hundred and eighty euros.


Ci sono cento e una pagina.
There are one hundred and one pages.




1.000
mille


1.001
mille e uno


1.020
mille e venti


1.150
millecentocinquanta


2.000
duemila


2.500
duemilacinquecento


3.400
tremilaquattrocento


100.000
centomila



BUONO A SAPERSI!
In Italian a full stop rather than a comma is used to separate thousands and millions.


mille means one thousand, or a thousand. You do not translate the one, or a in Italian. mille changes to mila in the plural, and joins onto other words, for example, duemila (two thousand), duecentomila (two hundred thousand).

one thousand to one hundred thousand


Questa città esiste da più di mille years.
This city has been here for over a thousand anni.


Quanto sono centomila euro in sterline?
How much is 100,000 euros in pounds?


La casa nuova gli costa
He's paying £250,000 for his new house. duecentocinquantamila sterline.


Si sono sposati nel duemiladue.
They got married in 2002.


È tornato a Londra nel duemila e quattro.
He went back to London in 2004.



BUONO A SAPERSI!
You can either translate the and in numbers like a thousand and two, or two thousand and twenty, or use one joined-up word: mille e due, or milledue; duemila e venti, or duemilaventi. There's the same choice for numbers like one thousand seven hundred, which can be mille e settecento or millesettecento.



1.000.000
un milione


1.000.000.000
un miliardo


1.000.000.000.000
mille miliardi



To talk about a million or a billion things, you use un milione di and un miliardo di.

one million to one billion


Ha vinto un milione di sterline alla lotteria.
He won a million pounds in the lottery.


Il governo ha già speso due miliardi di sterline per questo progetto.
The government has already spent two billion pounds on this project.



BUONO A SAPERSI!
Remember that you need to have di (of) in Italian after milione and miliardo, as in un milione di sterline (a million pounds).


If you want to say about ten, about twenty, about a thousand and so on in Italian, you can use the expressions below.

about...


una decina
about ten


una ventina
about twenty


una quarantina
about thirty


un centinaio
about a hundred


un migliaio
about a thousand


una dozzina
a dozen or so


C'erano una settantina di persone.
There were about seventy people.


Avrà una sessantina d'anni.
He must be about sixty.


Hanno un'ottantina di ospiti d'estate.
They have about 80 guests during the summer.



In Italian, a decimal virgola (comma) is used rather than a decimal point.

... point ...


zero virgola cinque (0,5)
nought point five (0.5)


novantanove virgola nove (99,9)
ninety-nine point nine (99.9)


sei virgola ottantanove (6,89)
six point eight nine (6.89)


Hanno aumentato il tasso di interesse al quattro virgola cinque per cento (4,5%).
They've put interest rates up to four point five per cent (4.5%).



To read prices that include both euros and cents, put euro in the middle between the euro and the cent figures. The word centesimi is optional.

euros and cents


Sono diciotto euro e novantanove.
That'll be €18.99.


Mi è costato sessantacinque euro e venti centesimi.
It cost me €65.20.



BUONO A SAPERSI!
Remember that while in English you talk about one euro and three euros, in Italian euro is not made plural: un euro (one euro), tre euro (three euros), quattro euro (four euros) and so on.

kilos and grams


Vorrei un chilo di patate.
I'd like a kilo of potatoes.


Mi dà due chili di mele?
Can I have two kilos of apples?


Mi dà mezzo chilo di pomodori?
Can I have half a kilo of tomatoes?


Un chilo e mezzo di pesche, per favore.
Can I have one and half kilos of peaches, please?



The word etto is used to mean a hundred grams. You can also say mezzo etto (50 grams).

one hundred grams


Un etto di ricotta, per favore.
One hundred grams of ricotta, please.


Vorrei due etti di carne macinata.
I'd like two hundred grams of mince.


Mi dà un etto e mezzo di prosciutto, per favore?
I'd like one hundred and fifty grams of ham, please.


litres


Un litro di vino bianco, per favore.
A litre of white wine, please.


Quant'è la benzina al litro?
How much is a litre of petrol?


Bastano due litri di acqua minerale?
Will two litres of mineral water be enough?


Occorre mezzo litro di latte per questa ricetta.
You need half a litre of milk for this recipe.


kilometres, metres and centimetres


Andava a centoquaranta chilometri all'ora.
He was doing 140km an hour.


Siamo a trenta chilometri da Siena.
We're 30km from Siena.


Sono alta un metro e sessantasei.
I'm one metre sixty-six centimetres tall.


È lungo venti centimetri e largo dieci.
It's twenty centimetres long by ten wide.


percentages


L'inflazione è al due virgola cinque per cento (2,5%).
The inflation rate is two point five per cent (2.5%).


Il cinquantacinque per cento ha votato no al referendum.
55% voted no in the referendum.


temperature


La temperatura oscillerà tra i dodici e i quindici gradi.
Temperatures will range between twelve and fifteen degrees.


Sono trenta gradi.
It's thirty degrees.



The word for half in Italian is mezzo.

half


Ne è rimasto solo mezzo.
There's only half left.


Basta una bottiglia da mezzo.
A half-litre bottle will do.


Siamo dovuti tornare a casa nel bel mezzo della vacanza.
We had to go back home halfway through the holiday.


... and a half


Restiamo in Toscana un mese e mezzo.
We'll be spending a month and a half in Tuscany.


Ha nove anni e mezzo.
He's nine and a half.


Era alto un metro e mezzo.
He was one-and-a-half metres tall.


Ci ho messo due ore e mezza.
It took me two and a half hours.



There are times when you'll need to use numbers to show the order of things. As in English, in Italian there's another set of numbers you use for this. All these numbers change their ending depending on whether they are masculine, feminine or plural.



first
primo


second
secondo


third
terzo


fourth
quarto


fifth
quinto


sixth
sesto


seventh
settimo


eighth
ottavo


ninth
nono


tenth
decimo


eleventh
undicesimo


twelfth
dodicesimo


thirteenth
tredicesimo


twentieth
ventesimo


thirtieth
trentesimo


hundredth
centesimo


twohundredth
duecentesimo


thousandth
millesimo



BUONO A SAPERSI!
Unlike in English, they are never used in dates, except for primo, e.g. il primo maggio (May 1st).

first, second, third


Oggi festeggiano il primo anniversario di matrimonio.
They're celebrating their first wedding anniversary today.


È la prima volta che viene.
This is the first time he's come.


È il mio secondo soggiorno in Toscana.
This is my second trip to Tuscany.


È arrivata terza nella gara.
She came third in the race.


I ragazzi sono arrivati quarti.
The boys came fourth.


Le ragazze si sono classificate seconde.
The girls got second place.



In English you can write these numbers as abbreviations (1st, 5th and so on). In Italian you can as well, by adding a small o or a (1o, 5a and so on) to the number, depending on the gender of the noun they refer to.

1st, 2nd, 3rd


Lavora sulla 5a Strada. (= quinta)
He works on 5th Avenue.


È al 20o piano. (= ventesimo)
It's on the 20th floor.


È il 1o aprile. (= primo)
It's April 1st.


L'ORA - THE TIME

If you want to know what time it is in Italian, you can say Che ora è? or Che ore sono? (What's the time?). You can also ask Scusi, ha l'ora? (Excuse me, do You have the time?). Remember to use the article when telling the time in Italian. Use Sono le... (It's... o'clock) in all cases, except for È l'una. (It's one o'clock.), È mezzanotte. (It's midnight.) and È mezzogiorno. (It's midday.).

It's...o'clock.


Sono le sei.
It's six o'clock.


Sono le tre del mattino.
It's three in the morning.


Erano le quattro del pomeriggio.
It was four o'clock in the afternoon.


È l'una.
It's one o'clock.


È mezzanotte.
It's midnight.


Era mezzogiorno.
It was midday.


Devono essere più o meno le undici.
It must be about eleven.



BUONO A SAPERSI!
To say it's three in the morning, in Italian you can say sono le tre di mattina (or del mattino), as well as sono le tre di notte (it's three o'clock in the night).


To say the time in Italian, put the hour first, followed by e and the minutes, as in le nove e dieci (ten past nine).

It's...past...


È l'una e venticinque.
It's twenty-five past one.


Sono le sei e cinque.
It's five past six.


È l'una e un quarto.
It's quarter past one.


Sono le cinque e mezza.
It's half past five.



BUONO A SAPERSI!
When you're saying the time, mezza stands for mezz'ora (half an hour), so le cinque e mezza is literally five hours and half an hour.


To say quarter to in Italian say the hour followed by meno un quarto, as in sono le sette meno un quarto (it's quarter to seven). Do the same for five to, ten to, twenty to and so on: sono le sette meno cinque (it's five to seven).

It's...to...


È l'una meno un quarto.
It's quarter to one.


È l'una meno venti.
It's twenty to one.


Sono le otto meno dieci.
It's ten to eight.


Sono le tre meno cinque.
It's five to three.



When you're in Italy, to find out what time something is happening, you can say A che ora...? (What time...?).

What time...?


A che ora c'è il prossimo treno per Sassari?
What time's the next train for Sassari?


A che ora comincia?
What time does it start?


A che ora ci troviamo?
What time shall we meet?


A che ora è finito il film?
What time did the film end?



To say what time something is happening at, use a. Remember that a combines with the article, as in the following examples: all'una (at one o'clock), alle due (at two o'clock), alle tre e mezza (at half past three) and so on. For more information on a with the article, see page 255.

at...


Comincia alle sette.
It starts at seven o'clock.


Il treno parte alle sette e mezza.
The train leaves at seven thirty.


Ci vediamo alle tre e mezza.
I'll see you at half past three.


Ci possiamo trovare alle cinque e un quarto.
We can meet up at quarter past five.


Ci vediamo alla mezza.
See you at half past twelve.



BUONO A SAPERSI!
In Italian, a possible time to have lunch is la mezza, which means the same as mezzogiorno e mezzo (half past twelve).


To say when something is happening by, use entro: entro l'una (by one o'clock), entro le due (by two o'clock), entro le tre e mezza (by half past three) and so on.

by...


Puoi arrivare entro le tre?
Can you be there by three o'clock?


Dobbiamo finire entro l'una meno un quarto.
We must be finished by quarter to one.



del mattino or di mattina (in the morning) are used in Italian where in English we'd say am. del pomeriggio and di sera (in the afternoon, in the evening) are used where we'd say pm. It is also quite common to use the 24-hour clock in Italian.

at... am/pm


Il treno parte alle otto del mattino.
The train leaves at eight am.


Si deve alzare alle cinque di mattina.
She has to get up at five am.


Torno a casa alle quattro del pomeriggio.
I get home at four pm.


Il traghetto è alle undici di sera.
The ferry is at eleven pm.


Vediamoci a mezzogiorno in punto.
Let's meet at 12 noon sharp.


Comincia alle venti e trenta.
It starts at 8.30pm.



BUONO A SAPERSI!
The word questa (this) drops its first three letters and joins with the words mattina and sera, to make stamattina (this morning) and stasera (this evening). The same thing happens with notte, but stanotte means last night.

LISTEN OUT FOR
Here are some key phrases to do with numbers and the time.


È a pagina ventidue.
It's on page 22.


Secondo piano, interno quindici.
Second floor, room 15.


Sono quasi due etti.
It's almost 200 grams.


Eri qua nel novantanove?
Were you here in '99?


Le va bene stasera alle sette?
Is 7pm okay with You?


Il treno per Roma parte alle tredici e cinquantacinque.
The train for Rome leaves at 13:55.


Il treno delle quattordici e quindici per Palermo partirà dal binario due.
The 14:15 train to Palermo will depart from platform two.


La partenza del volo tre zero sette con destinazione Londra è prevista alle ore venti e quarantacinque.
Flight number 307 for London is due to take off at 20:45.


Il volo nove zero nove proveniente da Manchester viaggia in orario.
Flight 909 from Manchester is on time.


Il pullman arriva a Brindisi alle diciannove e dieci.
The coach gets to Brindisi at 19:10.


DURATA - saying how long

When you say in an hour, in five minutes and so on you use in in Italian.

in...


Ha completato l'esercizio in soli tre minuti.
He completed the exercise in only three minutes.


È riuscito a fare il lavoro in un'ora.
He was able to do the job in an hour.



When in an hour or in five minutes means in an hour's time or in five minutes' time, you use fra or tra instead of in.



Sarò di ritorno tra venti minuti.
I'll be back in twenty minutes.


Sarà qua fra una settimana.
She'll be here in a week's time.



To ask how long something is, or how long it takes, use Quanto dura...? or Quanto tempo dura...?. dura comes from the verb durare.

How long...?


Quanto dura il film?
How long's the film?


Quanto dura la visita?
How long will the tour take?


Quanto è durata l'opera?
How long was the opera?


Quanto tempo ci vuole per raggiungere la costa?
How long will it take to get to the coast?


Quanto ci vuole per arrivare in centro?
How long does it take to get to the centre of town?



If you want to say how long something takes, you can use ci vuole or ci vogliono (it takes). vuole and vogliono come from the verb volere. For more information on volere, see page 285.

It takes...


Ci vuole un'ora di macchina.
It takes an hour by car.


Mi ci vogliono due ore per andare a piedi fino in paese.
It takes me two hours to walk to the village.


Ci vogliono meno di venti minuti raggiungere il centro a piedi.
It takes less than twenty minutes to walk per to the town centre.


Ci è voluta mezz'ora per convincerla.
It took half an hour to persuade her.


Si fa in cinque minuti.
It takes five minutes to make.



When referring to people, use the verb mettere (to take), with ci in front of it, as in the following examples:

It'll take you...


Ci metterai almeno un'ora con questo traffico.
It'll take you at least an hour in this traffic.


Quanto ci metti?
How long will you be?


Non ci metto molto a raggiungerti.
It won't take me long to join you.


Quanto tempo ci metterà a dipingere la stanza?
How long will it take You to paint the room?


Ci mettono un sacco di tempo a servirti qui.
They take ages to serve you here.


LE STAGIONE - THE SEASONS

These are the four seasons in Italian.



la primavera
spring


l'estate
summer


l'autunno
autumn


l'inverno
winter



When you talk about the seasons in Italian, you must use the article, even if you don't use it in English.



Non mi piace affatto l'inverno.
I don't like winter at all.


Mi piace più di tutto la primavera.
I like the spring best.



To say in autumn, in winter, in summer and in spring, use in autunno, in inverno, in estate and in primavera. However, you can also say d'estate and d'inverno.

in...


Il tempo migliore qui è in primavera.
We get the best weather here in spring.


In inverno qui nevica sempre.
It always snows here in the winter.


Non andiamo in campeggio d'inverno.
We don't go camping in winter.


D'estate vanno sempre al mare.
They always go to the seaside in the summer.



Use questo (or quest' before a vowel), to say this summer, this winter and so on.

this...


Quest'estate andiamo in Calabria.
We're going to Calabria this summer.


Vado a Cortina quest'inverno.
I'm going to Cortina this winter.



Use scorso to talk about last winter and so on, and prossimo to talk about next winter and so forth.

last.../next...


Ha fatto bel tempo l'inverno scorso.
The weather was good last winter.


L'estate scorsa abbiamo passato un mese in Sicilia.
Last summer we spent a month in Sicily.


Il prossimo inverno andiamo tutti a sciare.
Next winter we're all going skiing.


Avrà il bambino la primavera prossima.
She's expecting the baby next spring.



BUONO A SAPERSI!
Remember to use the article in Italian before scorso (last) and prossimo (next).

I MESI DELL'ANNO - THE MONTHS OF THE YEAR

The months of the year are always written with a small letter in Italian.



gennaio
January


febbraio
February


marzo
March


aprile
April


maggio
May


giugno
June


luglio
July


agosto
August


settembre
September


ottobre
October


novembre
November


dicembre
December



Just like in English, to say in January, in February and so on in Italian you say: in gennaio, in febbraio, and so forth. You can also say a gennaio, a febbraio and so on.

in...


Il mio compleanno è in agosto.
My birthday is in August.


Sono andato a trovare degli amici a Como in settembre.
I visited some friends in Como in September.


Andremo in vacanza in montagna in agosto.
We're going to go to the mountains for our holidays this August.


Probabilmente andremo in vacanza a maggio.
We'll probably go on holiday in May.



Use scorso to talk about last June and so on, and prossimo to talk about next June and so forth.

last.../next...


Dove sei andato in vacanza lo scorso giugno?
Where did you go on holiday last June?


Vado a Glasgow il prossimo maggio.
I'm going to Glasgow next May.


Spero di andare in Corsica il prossimo luglio.
I'm hoping to go to Corsica next July.



BUONO A SAPERSI!
Remember to use the article in Italian before scorso (last) and prossimo (next).


If you want to say that something is happening at the beginning of a month, you can use the expression all'inizio di. If you want to say that something is happening at the end of a month, you can use the expression alla fine di. Alternatively, you can say a fine marzo, a fine giugno and so on.

at the beginning/end of...


Comincia l'università all'inizio di ottobre.
She starts university at the beginning of October.


Morì alla fine di febbraio.
He died at the end of February.


Le vacanze estive cominciano a fine giugno.
The summer holidays start at the end of June.


Traslocano a metà marzo.
They're moving house in the middle of March.


LE DATE - DATES

To ask what the date is, you can use Che data è oggi? (What's the date today?). When talking about dates, Italian speakers use due (two), tre (three), quattro (four) and so on rather than secondo (second), terzo (third), and so on. For the first of the month, however, primo (first) is used.

It's the...of...


È il primo luglio.
It's the first of July.


Oggi è il ventotto dicembre.
It's December 28th today.


Domani è il dieci gennaio.
Tomorrow's the tenth of January.


Ieri era il venti novembre.
It was 20th November yesterday.


È giovedì due marzo.
It's Thursday, 2nd March.



BUONO A SAPERSI!
When writing a letter, write the date in the form lunedì, 27 agosto 2007.


To say what date something is happening or happened on, use il before the number.

on the... of...


È nato il quattordici febbraio 1990.
He was born on the fourteenth of February, 1990.


Morì il ventitré aprile 1616.
He died on April the twenty-third, 1616.


Avevano in programma di sposarsi il diciotto ottobre 2007.
They were planning to get married on October 18th 2007.


Dove pensi che sarai il venti ottobre?
Where do you think you'll be on the twentieth of October?


I GIORNI DELLA SETTIMANA - THE DAYS OF THE WEEK

The days of the week are always written with a small letter in Italian.



lunedì
Monday


martedì
Tuesday


mercoledì
Wednesday


giovedì
Thursday


venerdì
Friday


sabato
Saturday


domenica
Sunday



To say what day it is, just say è giovedì (it's Thursday), è sabato (it's Saturday). You can also say oggi è giovedì (today's Thursday) and so on.

It's...


Che giorno è oggi? - È giovedì.
What day is it today? - It's Thursday.


Oggi è lunedì, no?
It's Monday today, isn't it?


Che bello! Oggi è sabato.
Great! It's Saturday today.



When making arrangements or saying when something happened you may want to specify the day. In Italian it's easy: just use the day in question lunedì, venerdì to mean on Monday, on Friday and so on.

on...


Vado a Dublino lunedì.
I'm going to Dublin on Monday.


Martedì è il mio compleanno.
It's my birthday on Tuesday.


Li vediamo mercoledì.
We'll see them on Wednesday.


Parto per le vacanze martedì.
I'm going on holiday this Tuesday.



To say that something regularly happens on a particular day, use either il or di and the day in question. So il lunedì and di lunedì both mean on Mondays.



Usciamo sempre il venerdì.
We always go out on Fridays.


Arriva sempre tardi il lunedì.
He's always late in on Mondays.


Di sabato andiamo in palestra.
We go to the gym on Saturdays.



If you want to specify the time of day, add mattina (morning), pomeriggio (afternoon) or sera (evening, night) after the day.

on... morning/afternoon/evening/night


Vado in officina martedì mattina.
I'm going to the garage on Tuesday morning.


Ci vediamo venerdì pomeriggio.
I'll see you on Friday afternoon.


C'era un bel film in tivù domenica sera.
There was a good film on television on Sunday evening.


Cosa fa sabato sera?
What are You doing on Saturday night?



You may want to say every Monday, every Sunday and so on. In Italian, you can say either tutti i lunedì, tutte le domeniche or ogni giovedì, ogni domenica and so on.

every...


Le telefoniamo tutti i giovedì.
We ring her every Thursday.


Gioca a golf tutti i sabati.
He plays golf every Saturday.


Una volta li vedevo tutti i venerdì.
I used to see them every Friday.


Facciamo le pulizie tutte le domeniche mattina.
We do the cleaning every Sunday morning.


Va a messa ogni domenica.
She goes to mass every Sunday.


Ogni sabato pomeriggio andava a trovare la nonna.
He used to visit his grandmother every Saturday afternoon.



You may want to say that you do something every other day, week and so on. To say every other use uno... su due (one out of two...), or ogni secondo... (every second...).

every other...


Ha i bambini una domenica su due.
He has the children ever other Sunday.


Giochiamo a pallone un sabato su due.
We play football every other Saturday.


Torna a casa ogni secondo venerdì.
He goes home every other Friday.



You can use questo (this), scorso (last) and prossimo (next) if you want to specify a day in particular.

this/next/last...


Questo venerdì è il nostro anniversario di matrimonio.
It's our wedding anniversary this Friday.


Ti ho mandato le foto via e-mail venerdì scorso.
I emailed you the photos last Friday.


Le andrebbe bene venerdì prossimo?
Would next Friday suit You?


Venerdì della settimana
It's my birthday on Friday week.prossima è il mio compleanno.


Ci siamo dati appuntamento per venerdì della settimana prossima.
We've arranged to meet up a week on Friday.



If you want to ask what day something is happening, use Che giorno...? (What day...?).

What day...?


Che giorno è la riunione? - Martedì.
What day's the meeting? - Tuesday.


Sai che giorno viene? - Viene mercoledì.
Do you know what day he's coming? coming on Wednesday.


Che giorno ci sei andata? - Martedì, credo.
Which day did you go there? - Tuesday, I think.



If you want to talk about the past, the present or the future, some of these phrases will be useful.

yesterday


ieri
yesterday


ieri mattina
yesterday morning


ieri pomeriggio
yesterday afternoon


l'altro ieri
the day before yesterday


ieri sera
yesterday evening, last night


Ieri è venuto a trovarmi Michael.
Michael came to see me yesterday.


L'altro ieri ha chiamato Beatrice.
Beatrice rang up the day before yesterday.



BUONO A SAPERSI!
Remember that the English word night may be translated sera (evening) and notte (night time) in Italian depending on the time of day.

today


oggi
today


Oggi è martedì.
Today's Tuesday.


tomorrow


domani
tomorrow


domani mattina
tomorrow morning


domain sera
tomorrow evening, tomorrow night


dopodomani
the day after tomorrow


Domani è mercoledì.
Tomorrow is Wednesday.


Devo alzarmi presto domani mattina.
I've got to get up early tomorrow morning.


Andiamo a una festa domani sera.
We're going to a party tomorrow night.



To say that something happened a certain length of time ago, use fa after stating the period of time in question.

... ago


Mi ha chiamato una settimana fa.
She phoned me a week ago.


È nato tre anni fa.
He was born three years ago.


Si sono trasferiti nella casa nuova una decina di giorni fa.
They moved into their house about ten days ago.



One way to talk about how long you've been doing something is to use the verb in the present tense followed by da and the length of time. For more information on the present tense, see page 271.

... for...


Viviamo qui da dieci mesi.
We've been living here for ten months.


Sono sposati da dieci anni.
They've been married for ten years.


Non la vedo da una settimana.
I haven't seen her for a week.


Sono tre settimane che non li vedo.
I haven't seen them for three weeks.


Sono ore che aspetto.
I've been waiting here for hours.



BUONO A SAPERSI!
You can also change the sentence round by putting the length of time first and using che (that).

L'ALFABETO - THE ALPHABET

When you're in Italy, you may well need to spell something out in Italian. Italian letters are pronounced approximately as shown in the list below.



A
ah


B
bee


C
tchee


D
dee


E
e (as in tent)


F
effay


G
jee


H
akka


I
ee


J
ee loongo


K
kappa


L
ellay


M
emmay


N
ennay


O
o (as in orange)


P
pee


Q
koo


R
erray


S
essay


T
tee


U
oo


V
vee


W
vee doppioh


X
eeks


Y
ee grayko


Z
zaytah



BUONO A SAPERSI!
All letters are feminine in Italian. So you would say, si scrive con una P (it's spelt with a P). Letters don't have plurals: una emme, due emme (one M, two Ms).

LISTEN OUT FOR
Here are some key phrases which you may hear when spelling words out.


Come si scrive?
How do you spell it?


Mi può dire come si scrive?
Can You spell that for me?


Si scrive tee-akka-o-emmay-
That's T-H-O-M-A-S. ah-essay.


Le dico come si scrive?
Shall I spell it for You?


Si scrive con la B.
It's spelt with a B.


B come Bologna.
B for Bologna.


Marini, con la emme maiuscola.
That's Marini with a capital M.


Si scrive con due effe.
It's spelt with a double F.


Con una elle o due?
Is that with one L or two?


Dovrebbe essere maiuscolo.
That should be in capitals.


Tutto minuscolo.
All in small letters.


Come si pronuncia il suo nome?
How do you say your name?


Me lo può ripetere?
Please can you repeat that?



Interesting days and dates
• June 2 is a national holiday in Italy. It celebrates the founding of the Italian republic in 1946.
• Boxing Day in Italy is called Santo Stefano, after St Stephen, whose day it is. New Year's Eve is called either la vigilia di Capodanno or San Silvestro (after the saint). New Year's Day is Capodanno.
• Italian children get presents on January 6, which is the feast of the Epiphany and a national holiday. The presents are brought by la Befana, an old woman who, legend has it, comes down the chimney in the night with gifts for children who have been good and lumps of coal for those who have not.
• Another of Italy's public holidays is April 25. This commemorates Italy's liberation from Nazi occupation on April 25, 1945.
• Ferragosto is on August 15, the date of the Assumption of the Virgin (the name means the August holiday). It comes in the middle of the main holiday period in Italy, when many shops and restaurants take their annual break.
• All Italian cities have a patron saint, and on that saint's day there are often special celebrations. San Giovanni (St John), for example, is the patron saint of Firenze (Florence), and on his day, June 24, there is the famous Calcio in Costume, a kind of football match in medieval costume.
• Most Christian names are associated with a Saint's day in Italian. If it's your Saint's day, people will wish you Buon onomastico! (Happy Saint's Day!).










Allora, recapitolando... - So, to sum up...
This unit gives you quick access to all the important Italian structures that you'll have learned in the individual units. They are grouped by function to help you find what you're looking for.
CONTENTS
Apologizing
Asking for and giving explanations
Asking for information
Asking for permission
Asking for things
Complaining
Describing people and things
Explaining a problem
Expressing opinions
Making suggestions
Saying what's happened
Saying what you have to do
Saying what you like, dislike, prefer
Saying what you want to do
Talking about your plans
APOLOGIZING

There are several ways to say sorry in Italian. You can say scusa or scusami to someone you call tu, and scusi or mi scusi to someone you call lei. Alternatively, you can say chiedo scusa, especially if you want to get past someone or if you've bumped into them.

Mi scusi...


Mi scusi, non sapevo.
Sorry, I didn't know.


Scusi, ho sbagliato numero.
Sorry, I've dialled the wrong number.


Scusa, non ti avevo visto.
Sorry, I didn't see you.


Chiedo scusa


Chiedo scusa! Posso passare?
Sorry! Can I get past?


Chiedo scusa! Le ho fatto male?
Sorry! Did I hurt You?



Another way to say I'm sorry is to use mi dispiace. You can use mi dispiace not only when you're apologizing but also when you're sympathizing with someone.

Mi dispiace...


Mi dispiace molto.
I'm very sorry.


Mi dispiace di non averla richiamata prima.
I'm sorry I didn't call You back sooner.


Mi dispiace per quello che è successo.
I'm sorry about what happened.


ASKING FOR AND GIVING EXPLANATIONS

perché means both why and because, so use it both when asking for explanations, and when giving them.

perché


Perché ride?
Why are You laughing?


Perché non vuoi venire con noi?
Why don't you want to come with us?


Perché no?
Why not?


Sai perché si sia arrabbiato tanto?
Do you know why he got so angry?


Non te ne ho parlato perché non ti volevo preoccupare.
I didn't tell you because I didn't want to worry you.


Sono dovuta andare via presto perché avevo una riunione.
I had to leave early because I had a meeting.


ASKING FOR INFORMATION

When you're asking for information you will need to use question words, for example, Cosa...? (What...?), Quale...? (Which...?), Che...? (Which...?), Dove...? (Where...?), Quando...? (When...?) and so on.

Cosa...?


Cos'è?
What is it?


Cosa fai nella vita?
What do you do for a living?


Cosa ha detto?
What did he say?


Cosa danno al cinema in questi giorni?
What's on at the cinema at the moment?


Quale...?


Quale mi consiglia?
Which do You recommend?


Qual è quello meno caro?
Which one is cheaper?


Quale preferisci?
Which one do you like best?


Che...?


Che macchina guida?
What car does he drive?


Che numero ha l'agenzia immobiliare?
What's the number of the estate agent's?


Che ora è?
What time is it?


Dove...?


Dov'è il commissariato di polizia?
Where's the police station?


Dove sono le toilette?
Where are the toilets?


Dove devo firmare?
Where do I have to sign?


Dov'è il municipio?
Where's the town hall?


Quando...?


Quando vieni a cena?
When are you coming to dinner?


Quando vi sposate?
When are you getting married?


Quando è il prossimo volo per
When is the next flight to London? Londra?



To ask what time something is due to happen, use A che ora...? (What time...?).

A che ora...?


A che ora chiude il museo?
What time does the museum close?


A che ora comincia il film?
What time does the film start?


A che ora pensi di andare?
What time are you thinking of going?



You use C'è...? and Ci sono...? for Is there...? and Are there...?.

C'è...?


C'è una panetteria in questa zona?
Is there a baker's in this area?


C'è carne nel sugo?
Is there meat in the sauce?


Ci sono altre edicole qui vicino?
Are there other newsagents round here?



To ask how you do something or what something is like, use Come...?.

Come...?


Come va?
How are you?


Come si fa a procurarsi biglietti?
How do you get tickets?


Com'è Livorno?
What's Livorno like?


Come si chiama?
What's Your name?



To ask how much use quanto or quanta, to ask how many, use quanti or quante.

Quanto...?


Quanto costa un biglietto per Genova?
How much is a ticket to Genoa?


Quanta medicina è rimasta?
How much medicine is left?


Quante cipolle sono rimaste?
How many onions are there left?


Quanti chilometri sono fino a Pavia?
How many kilometres to Pavia?


Quante fermate mancano al Duomo?
How many stops to the Duomo?


Quanto ci si mette per arrivare a Portofino?
How long does it take to get to Portofino?


ASKING FOR PERMISSION

The simplest way to ask for permission to do something is by using Posso...? (Can I...?) or Potrei...? (Could I...?), followed by a verb in the infinitive. posso and potrei come from the verb potere (to be able). For more information on potere, see page 284.

Posso...?


Posso usare il telefono?
Can I use the phone?


Posso pagarla in due rate?
Can I pay You in two instalments?


Potrei...?


Potrei restare ancora una settimana?
Could I stay for another week?


Potrei parcheggiare qua la macchina?
Could I park my car here?



Alternatively, you can use Le dispiace se...? (Do You mind if...?) or, more informally, Ti dispiace se..., followed by a verb in the present tense. If you are talking to more than one person, use Vi dispiace se...?. For more information on the present tense, see page 271.

Le dispiace se...?


Le dispiace se fumo?
Do You mind if I smoke?


Le dispiace se apro la finestra?
Do You mind if I open the window?


Ti dispiace se invito degli amici stasera?
Do you mind if I have a few friends over tonight?


Vi dispiace se non vengo con voi stasera?
Do you mind if I don't come with you tonight?


ASKING FOR THINGS

To ask for things in Italian you can simply name what you want and say per favore (please). As an alternative to per favore, use per piacere or per cortesia.

Un..., per favore.


Un biglietto di sola andata per Parma, per favore.
A single to Parma, please.


Una limonata, per favore.
A lemonade, please.


Una ciabatta, per piacere.
One ciabatta, please.


Due panini e quattro pizzette, per favore.
Two rolls and four small pizzas, please.



To say what you'd like or what you want, you can use vorrei (I'd like), which comes from the verb volere (to want). For more information on volere, see page 285.

Vorrei...


Vorrei dei francobolli, per favore.
I'd like some stamps, please.


Vorrei due biglietti per la mostra.
I'd like two tickets for the exhibition, please.


Vorremmo un appartamento con vista mare.
We'd like a flat with a sea view.



BUONO A SAPERSI!
Remember that in Italian you don't need to use per favore as often as you use please in English. Your tone of voice can convey politeness.


One way of asking whether something is available is to use Ha...? (Do You have...?). ha comes from the verb avere (to have). For more information on avere, see page 279.

Ha...?


Ha il giornale di oggi?
Do You have today's newspaper?


Ha un indirizzo di posta elettronica?
Do You have an email address?



To say what you're looking for you can use cerco, which comes from the verb cercare (to look for).

Cerco...


Cerco un posto per mettere la tenda.
I'm looking for somewhere to camp.


Cerco un ristorante vegetariano.
I'm looking for a vegetarian restaurant.


Cerchiamo un albergo in centro.
We are looking for a hotel in the town centre.



To ask someone if they can do something for you, use Può...? (Can You..?) or Potrebbe...? (Could You..?) and then the verb in the infinitive. può and potrebbe come from the verb potere (to be able). For more information on potere, see page 284.

Può...?


Può darmi una borsa, per piacere?
Can You give me a carrier bag, please?


Può darci una ricevuta?
Can You give us a receipt?


Mi può fare una fotocopia della cartina, per favore?
Can You photocopy the map for me, please?


Ci può portare la lista dei vini, per favore?
Can You bring us the wine list, please?



BUONO A SAPERSI!
Remember that in Italian you can say Mi può dare...? or Può darmi...? (Can you give me...?).

Potrebbe...?


Potrebbe spostare la macchina, per favore?
Could You move your car, please?


Le potrebbe dare un messaggio?
Could You give her a message?


Mi potrebbe contattare sul mio cellulare?
Could You contact me on my mobile?


Ci potrebbe dare una ricevuta?
Could you give us a receipt?



You can use Mi dà...? followed by per favore to mean Can I have..., please? especially when asking for something at a counter or when asking someone to pass you something. If you are talking to somebody you know well, or somebody younger, use Mi dai...?.

Mi dà...?


Mi dà una ciabatta, per favore?
Can I have a ciabatta, please?


Mi dà una limonata, per favore?
Can I have a lemonade, please?


Mi dai la penna, per piacere?
Can I have your pen, please?


COMPLAINING

If you need to complain, you may want to use c'è and non c'è to talk about what there is and what there isn't. If you are referring to more than one thing, use ci sono and non ci sono.

C'è...


C'è troppo rumore.
There's too much noise.


Ci sono scarafaggi nell'appartamento.
There are cockroaches in the flat.


Non c'è acqua calda.
There isn't any hot water.


Non ci sono asciugamani puliti in camera.
There aren't any clean towels in the room.



You can also use non c'è abbastanza, or non ci sono abbastanza, to say that there isn't enough of something.

Non c'è abbastanza...


Non c'è abbastanza luce.
There's not enough light.


Non ci sono abbastanza informazioni.
There isn't enough information.


Non c'erano abbastanza sedie.
There weren't enough chairs.



When something has run out, you can use non c'è più or non ci sono più.

Non c'è più...


Non c'è più carta igienica nella toilette delle signore.
There isn't any toilet paper left in the ladies.


Non ci sono più depliant.
There aren't any leaflets left.


DESCRIBING PEOPLE AND THINGS

When you're describing people or things, use è (he/she/it is) followed by an adjective.

È...


È molto alto.
He's very tall.


È simpatica.
She's nice.


È bello.
It's beautiful.


È lontano.
It's a long way away.


È pesantissimo.
It's really heavy.



BUONO A SAPERSI!
In Italian personal pronouns like io, tu, lui, lei etc. (I, you, he, she etc), are used much less than in English. They tend to be used for emphasis, for example, è lei che dovrebbe chiedere scusa (it's she who should apologize), non sono stato io (it wasn't me).


avere (to have) is used to talk about the characteristics that people have. Remember that it's also used with anni (years) to talk about ages. For more information about avere, see page 279.

Ha...


Ha i capelli grigi.
He's got grey hair.


Ha gli occhi azzurri.
She's got blue eyes.


Ha la carnagione scura.
He has a dark complexion.


Ho ventidue anni.
I'm twenty two.



BUONO A SAPERSI!
Remember to use the article in Italian (il, la, gli etc.) before the part of the body or feature you are talking about, for example, ha gli occhi azzurri (she has blue eyes).

EXPLAINING A PROBLEM

To explain what the problem is, use c'è and ci sono to say there is and there are. If you are talking about the past, use c'è stato or ci sono stati.

C'è...


C'è uno strano rumore.
There's a strange noise.


Non ci sono asciugamani nella stanza.
There aren't any towels in my room.


C'è stato un incidente.
There's been an accident.


Non ci sono state lamentele.
There have been no complaints.



BUONO A SAPERSI!
Remember to match stato and stati to the gender of the word that follows: non c'è stato un volo prima di oggi (there wasn't a flight before today) but non c'è stata una grande affluenza di pubblico (not many people attended).


To say what you can't do, use non riesco a (I can't) followed by the infinitive.

Non riesco a...


Non riesco a far partire la macchina.
I can't get the car to start.


Non riesco a contattare la mia famiglia.
I can't get in touch with my family.


Non riusciamo a far funzionare il riscaldamento.
We can't get the heating to work.



You use non so... for I can't when you mean I don't know how to.

Non so...


Non so cucinare.
I can't cook.


Non so parlare molto bene l'italiano.
I can't speak Italian very well.


Non sa guidare.
He can't drive.


EXPRESSING OPINIONS

Use penso che, trovo che or credo che to mean I think. These are all followed by the subjunctive, or the future tense if you are talking about the future. For more information on the subjunctive and the future, see pages 273 and 271.

Penso che...


Penso che dovrebbe prenotare in anticipo.
I think You should book in advance.


Penso che pioverà.
I think it's going to rain.


Non penso che sia una buona idea.
I don't think it's a good idea.


Non penso che sia già arrivato.
I don't think he's arrived yet.


Cosa ne pensi?
What do you think?


Trovo che...


Trovo che abbia ragione.
I think he's right.


Trovo che sia un po' caro.
I think it's a bit dear.


Trovo che sia un po' infantile.
I think he's a bit childish.


Non trovo che sia un bel film.
I don't think it's a very good film.


Credo che...


Credo che ti preoccupi per niente.
I think you're worrying about nothing.


Crede che ne valga la pena?
Do You think it's worth it?


Non credo che ce la faremo.
I don't think we'll make it.



Use sono d'accordo to say that you agree and non sono d'accordo to say that you disagree.

Sono d'accordo...


Sono d'accordo con te.
I agree with you.


Siamo entrambi d'accordo.
We both agree.


Non sono affatto d'accordo.
I completely disagree.


MAKING SUGGESTIONS

Use potremmo (we could) if you want to suggest doing something with someone.

Potremmo...


Potremmo andare al cinema.
We could go to the cinema.


Potremmo sederci fuori.
We could sit outside.



Another way to suggest something is to turn a simple sentence into a suggestion by using a questioning tone of voice.



Prendiamo qualcosa da bere?
Shall we have something to drink?


Diamo un'occhiata al menù?
Shall we have a look at the menu?



Perché non...? can be used to mean Why don't we...?.

Perché non...?


Perché non chiediamo a una commessa?
Why don't we ask a shop assistant?


Perché non facciamo una tappa a Urbino strada facendo?
Why don't we stop in Urbino on the way?



You can also use E se...? (How about..?) followed by a verb in the imperfect subjunctive to suggest doing something. For more information on the subjunctive, see page 273.

E se...?


E se passassimo la notte qui?
How about spending the night here?


E se ci andassimo in traghetto?
How about going there by ferry?


E se chiedessimo al carabiniere?
How about asking the police officer?


E se noleggiassimo una macchina?
How about hiring a car?



You can ask someone if they'd like to do something using Le andrebbe di...? or, more informally, Ti andrebbe di...? (Would you like...?) with the infinitive. If you are talking to more than one person, use Vi andrebbe di...?. andrebbe comes from the verb andare. For more information on andare, see page 278.

Le andrebbe di...?


Le andrebbe di venire a bere qualcosa?
Would You like to come and have a drink?


Ti andrebbe di visitare la cattedrale?
Would you like to see the cathedral?


Vi andrebbe di cenare da noi?
Would you like to come to dinner with us?



To ask someone if they fancy something, you can use Hai voglia di...? (Do you fancy...?) or more formally Ha voglia di...?, followed by the infinitive. If you are talking to more than one person use Avete voglia di...?.

Hai voglia di...?


Hai voglia di mangiare un gelato?
Do you fancy an ice cream?


Ha voglia di prendere un caffè?
Do You fancy going for a coffee?


Avete voglia di andare a fare un giro in barca?
Do you fancy going sailing?



To offer to do something, you can use lasci che (or the tu form lascia che) to mean let me, followed by a verb in the subjunctive. For more information on the subjunctive, see page 273.

Lasci che...


Lasci che l'aiuti.
Let me help You.


Lascia che ti porti la valigia.
Let me carry your suitcase.



Use Le dispiace se...? or, more informally, Ti dispiace se...? to say Is it okay with you if...?. If you are talking to more than one person use Vi dispiace se...?.

Le dispiace se...?


Le dispiace se la chiamo a casa?
Is it okay with You if I call You at home?


Ti dispiace se ripasso domani?
Is it okay with you if I come back tomorrow?


Vi dispiace se io resto qua?
Is it okay with you if I stay here?



If you want to say what would suit you better, you can use Mi andrebbe meglio... (It would be better for me...).

Mi andrebbe meglio...


Mi andrebbe meglio venerdì.
Friday would be better for me.


Mi andrebbe meglio incontrarvi là.
It would be better for me if I met you there.


SAYING WHAT'S HAPPENED

To talk about what has happened, in Italian you use the past tense made with avere (to have) or essere (to be) and the past participle. You can find out more about the past tense on page 269.

Ho...


Ho avuto un incidente.
I've had an accident.


Abbiamo mangiato molto bene.
We ate very well.


Abbiamo assistito a uno scippo.
We've witnessed a mugging.


Sono...


Sono arrivato stamattina.
I arrived this morning.


Mi sono rotta la gamba.
I've broken my leg.


È caduto.
He fell.


SAYING WHAT YOU HAVE TO DO

To say what you have to do, use devo (I need to) followed by a verb in the infinitive. devo is from the verb dovere (to have to). For more information on dovere, see page 281.

Devo...


Devo fare il pieno.
I need to fill up the car.


Devo fare una telefonata.
I need to make a phone call.


Dobbiamo andarli a prendere all'aeroporto.
We have to pick them up from the airport.



You can also use bisogna che followed by a verb in the subjunctive. For more information on the subjunctive, see page 273.

Bisogna che...


Bisogna che gli parli subito.
I must talk to him straightaway.


Bisogna che li avvertiamo per tempo.
We must let them know in advance.


Bisogna che tu vada di persona.
You must go in person.



To talk about what you should do, use dovrei (I should) followed by the infinitive. dovrei is from the verb dovere (to have to). For more information on dovere, see page 281.

Dovrei...


Dovrei andare.
I should go.


Dovrei fare le pulizie.
I should clean up.


Dovreste venire a trovarci.
You should come and see us.


SAYING WHAT YOU LIKE, DISLIKE, PREFER

To say what you like in Italian, use mi piace (I like) with singular nouns and mi piacciono with plural nouns. To say what you dislike, use non mi piace or non mi piacciono (I don't like). You can use the verb amare to say you really love something.

Mi piace...


Mi piace questo quadro.
I like this painting.


Mi piace molto la Calabria.
I like Calabria a lot.


Mi piacciono i paesini dell'Umbria.
I like the small villages in Umbria.


Ti è piaciuta la commedia?
Did you like the play?


Mi piace di più suo fratello.
I think his brother is more attractive.


Amo...


Amo la poesia.
I love poetry.


Amo i film in bianco e nero.
I love black and white movies.


Ama cucinare.
He loves cooking.


Non mi piace...


Non mi piace la musica jazz.
I don't like jazz.


Non mi piacciono gli espressionisti.
I don't like expressionist painting.



BUONO A SAPERSI!
If you want to tell somebody that you like them, use Mi sei simpatico or simpatica if they are just a friend. To say I love you in Italian, use Ti voglio bene (I care about you), if you are talking to a friend, a child and so on, and Ti amo to somebody with whom you are romantically involved.


To say what you prefer, use preferisco (I prefer). To say that you prefer A to B, use preferisco A a B. preferisco comes from the verb preferire. For more information on -ire verbs like preferire, see page 268.

Preferisco...


Preferisco la camicia grigia.
I prefer the grey shirt.


Preferisco il treno al pullman.
I prefer the train to the bus.


Preferisco la cucina italiana alla cucina francese.
I prefer Italian food to French food.


SAYING WHAT YOU WANT TO DO

To say what you'd like to do, you can use vorrei and mi piacerebbe (I'd like). These come from the verbs volere and piacere.

Vorrei...


Vorrei andare a San Marco.
I'd like to go to San Marco.


Vorrei guadagnare di più.
I'd like to earn more.


Vorrei controllare la mia posta elettronica.
I'd like to check my emails.


Mi piacerebbe...


Mi piacerebbe vedere l'Arena.
I'd like to see the Arena.


Ci piacerebbe fermarci qui un po' di più.
We'd like to stay here a little longer.



To talk about what you'd rather do, use preferirei from the verb preferire (to prefer). For more information on -ire verbs like preferire, see page 268.

Preferirei...


Preferirei partire al mattino presto.
I'd rather leave early in the morning.


Preferirei prendere in affitto un appartamentino.
I'd rather rent a small flat.


Preferiremmo non lasciare il bagaglio in macchina.
We'd rather not leave the luggage in the car.



If you want to sound more assertive, you can use voglio (I want) from the verb volere (to want) or esigo (I demand) from the verb esigere (to demand).

Voglio...


voglio parlare con il responsabile.
I want to speak to the manager.


voglio sapere perché l'appartamento non è più disponibile.
I want to know why the flat is no longer available.


Non voglio pagare nessun supplemento.
I don't want to pay a supplement.


Esigo...


Esigo una spiegazione!
I demand an explanation!


Esigo di essere risarcito di tutte le spese!
I demand to be refunded in full!


TALKING ABOUT YOUR PLANS

To talk about your plans, you can use either ho intenzione di or conto di. They both mean I'm planning to and are followed by a verb in the infinitive.

Ho intenzione di...


Ho intenzione di passare due settimane in Maremma.
I'm planning to spend two weeks in Maremma.


Ho intenzione di far costruire una casa.
I'm planning to have a house built.


Abbiamo intenzione di trasferirci qui.
We're planning to move here.


Conto di...


Conto di stare da un amico.
I'm planning to stay with a friend.


Non conto di fermarmi qui a lungo.
I'm not planning to stay here very long.


Contavamo di fermarci a dormire a Firenze.
We were planning to spend the night in Florence.



If you want to say what you're thinking of doing, you can use penso di (I'm thinking of) or pensavo di (I was thinking of) followed by a verb in the infinitive.

Penso di...


Penso di comprarmi un lettore MP3.
I'm thinking of buying an MP3 player.


Penso di arrivare verso le cinque.
I'm thinking of arriving around five.


Pensavo di invitare Anna a cena.
I was thinking of inviting Anna to dinner.



One easy way of talking about what you're going to do is to use the future tense. For more information on the future tense, see page 271.



Chiamerò Simone.
I'm going to phone Simone.


Manderò una cartolina ai miei.
I'm going to send a postcard to my parents.


Andremo a vedere un appartamento questa settimana.
We're going to look at a flat this week.



You can also use the present tense to talk about something that you're definitely going to do. For more information on the present tense, see page 271.



Parto domani alle undici.
I'm leaving tomorrow at eleven.


Ceno da Marina stasera.
I'm having dinner at Marina's tonight.


Andiamo a Napoli tra due settimane.
We're going to Naples in two weeks.


Arriva la settimana prossima.
She's coming next week.



To talk about what you hope to do, you can use spero di (I'm hoping to) followed by the verb in the infinitive.

Spero di...


Spero di ritornarci un giorno.
I'm hoping to go back there one day.


Spero di potervi raggiungere sabato.
I'm hoping to be able to join you on Saturday.


Speriamo di arrivare in tempo.
We hope we'll get there in time.



To say what you may do, you can use forse (perhaps) followed by a verb in the present or in the future tense.

Forse...


Forse faccio una festa.
I may have a party.


Forse stasera vado a bere qualcosa con Thomas.
I may go and have a drink with Thomas tonight.


Forse si trasferirà per sempre in Italia.
She may move to Italy permanently.











Chiedo scusa? - I beg your pardon?
Every day we use a variety of ready-made phrases that just trip off the tongue in English, such as take a seat, hurry up, congratulations, happy birthday, have a nice day, thanks and the same to you. In this unit we'll give you all these phrases and more that you'll need in Italian, so that you can say the appropriate thing with confidence.
CONTENTS
Hellos and goodbyes
Please and thank you
Attracting someone's attention
Making sure you've understood
Checking facts
Wishing someone something
Apologizing
Reassuring someone
Opinions
Agreeing, disagreeing and declining
Congratulating someone
Reacting to good and bad news
Exclamations
Surprise
Encouraging someone
Handing someone something
Dangers and emergencies
Speaking your mind
Conversational words
HELLOS AND GOODBYES

Creating a good first impression is important, so you'll want to say hello to people properly. Just as in English, there are several ways of doing this in Italian. If you are addressing someone you don't know well, or if you are in a shop or office, you can use buongiorno throughout the day or buonasera (good afternoon or good evening) later. You can also use the more informal salve (hello). If you know the person well or they are young, you can use ciao (hi).

Hello


Buongiorno, signora.
Good morning (or afternoon).


Buonasera, professore.
Good evening, professor.


Salve, mi sa dire dov'è la banca?
Hello, can you tell me where the bank is, please?


Ciao, c'è la mamma?
Hi, is your mum in?



buono a sapersi!
signora is much less formal than madam in English. You can use it when greeting a woman politely, whether a stranger or someone you know.

Goodbye


Arrivederci, signora!
Goodbye!


Ciao!
Bye!


Buongiorno!
Goodbye!


Buonasera!
Good night!



buono a sapersi!
As you'll have noticed, ciao can be used both when arriving and when leaving. buongiorno and buonasera can also be used in both situations. Use buonanotte (good night) only at bedtime.

See you...!


A dopo!
See you later!


A più tardi!
See you later!


A domani!
See you tomorrow!


A lunedì!
See you on Monday!


Ci vediamo!
See you again!



buono a sapersi!
Remember that a dopo or a più tardi imply that you are likely to see the person later that same day. ci vediamo refers to any time in the future.


When you're introduced to someone, you need to know how to reply. piacere is what people usually say.

How do you do?


Piacere. - Piacere.
Nice to meet you. - Nice to meet you too.


Piacere di conoscerla. - Il piacere è mio.
Pleased to meet You. - Pleased to meet You too.


Piacere di conoscerti. - Altrettanto.
Nice to meet you. - Nice to meet you too.



To welcome somebody in Italian, use benvenuto (or benvenuta), followed by a with the name of a town and in with the name of most countries or regions.

Welcome to...!


Benvenuto!
Welcome!


Benvenuto in Italia!
Welcome to Italy!


Benvenuta a Perugia!
Welcome to Perugia!


Benvenuti in Sicilia, signori!
Welcome to Sicily, ladies and gentlemen!


Benvenute a Trieste, signore!
Welcome to Trieste, ladies!


How lovely to see you!


Che piacere rivederti, Gianni!
How lovely to see you again, Gianni!


Che piacere rivederla, signora!
How lovely to see You again!


Sono secoli che non ci vediamo!
I haven't seen you for ages!



As in English, in Italian there are several ways you can ask someone how they are, and a variety of ways to reply.

How are you?


Come va? - Bene, e tu?
How are you? - Fine thanks, and you?


Come sta, signora? - Bene, grazie, e lei?
How are you? - Fine thanks, and You?


Salve! Come te la passi?
Hello! How's it going?


Come ti senti?
How are you feeling?


I'm...


Bene, grazie, e tu?
I'm fine thanks. And you?


Non male!
Not too bad!


Si tira avanti!
Surviving!


Non mi posso lamentare.
Mustn't grumble.


Molto meglio, grazie.
A lot better, thanks.


A knock at the door


C'è qualcuno?
Is there anyone here?


Chi è?
Who is it?


Un momento!
One moment!


Arrivo!
I'm coming!


Asking someone in


Avanti!
Come in!


Dopo di lei!
After You!


Si accomodi!
Do sit down!


Prego, ragazzi, sedetevi pure.
Do sit down, everybody.


Fai come se fossi a casa tua.
Make yourself at home.


PLEASE AND THANK YOU

When requesting something from someone, you can use per favore (please). per piacere and per cortesia are also used.

please


Mi dà una birra piccola, per favore?
Can I have a half of lager, please?


Mi passi il telecomando, per favore?
Could you give me the remote control, please?


Due chili di arance, per cortesia.
Two kilos of oranges, please.


Mi direbbe l'ora, per piacere?
Please could You tell me the time?


Sì, grazie.
Yes, please.



BUONO A SAPERSI!
In Italian, per favore is used less often than please is in English. You can still be polite by using the right tone of voice.


Like thank you in English, in Italian grazie on its own can be used with people you call tu, lei or voi.

Thank you!


Grazie!
Thank you!


Grazie del regalo.
Thank you for the present.


Mille grazie.
Thank you very much.


Molte grazie, signora!
Many thanks!


La ringrazio, signore.
Thank You, sir.


Ti ringrazio.
Thank you.


Ti ringrazio tanto della lettera.
Thank you very much for your letter.



BUONO A SAPERSI!
When you're offered something, you can accept by saying sì grazie, or just grazie, for example, Beve qualcosa? - Sì, grazie (Would You like a drink? - Yes, please).


The commonest response to grazie is prego (you're welcome), or you can say di niente (not at all). For greater emphasis you can use s'immagini or si figuri in the lei form, and figurati in the tu form (don't mention it).

Not at all


Grazie! - Prego!
Thank you! - You're welcome!


Di niente!
Not at all!


Si figuri!
Don't mention it!


Grazie, Andrea - Di niente, figurati!
Thank you, Andrea. - Don't mention it!


Grazie. - Grazie a lei!
Thank You. - Thank You!


Grazie tante, signora. - S'immagini, è un piacere!
Thank You. - Don't mention it, it's a pleasure.


ATTRACTING SOMEONE'S ATTENTION

To attract someone's attention, you can use scusi or mi scusi. Use scusa or scusami with somebody you know well or somebody younger.

Excuse me!


Scusi!
Excuse me, please!


Mi scusi, signora!
Excuse me!


Scusa!
Excuse me!


Scusami!
Excuse me!


MAKING SURE YOU'VE UNDERSTOOD

Sometimes you might have a problem understanding what's been said or may not know the right words to express what you want to say in Italian. Here are some useful phrases to help you when this happens.

I don't understand


Scusi, non capisco.
Sorry, I don't understand.


Potrebbe ripetere? Non ho capito.
Please could You repeat that? I didn't understand.


Mi scusi, non ho capito quello che ha detto.
Sorry, I didn't understand what You said.


How do you say...?


Come si dice 'driving licence' in italiano?
How do you say 'driving licence' in Italian?


Come si chiama in italiano?
What's this called in Italian?


Would you mind...?


Le dispiacerebbe parlare più lentamente?
Would You mind speaking more slowly?


Le dispiacerebbe ripetere?
Would You mind repeating that?


What...?


Scusi, cosa ha detto?
Sorry, what did You say?


Scusa, come hai detto?
Sorry, what did you say?


Mi scusi, cosa vuol dire 'vietato'?
Sorry, what does 'vietato' mean?


CHECKING FACTS

To check your facts, you can use vero? and no?. They are used at the end of statements in the same way as isn't it?, haven't you? and so on are used in English.

... isn't it?


Siete di Napoli, vero?
You're from Naples, aren't you?


È rumoroso, vero?
It's noisy, isn't it?


Voi siete arrivati ieri, no?
You arrived yesterday, didn't you?


Vieni o no?
Are you coming or not?


Tu gli hai detto che andava bene, no?
You told him it was okay, didn't you?


Hai i passaporti, vero?
You do have the passports, don't you?



To say Don't you think? In Italian, you can use non trova when addressing someone you don't know well, non trovi when addressing somebody you know well or somebody young, and non trovate when you are talking to several people.

Don't you think?


Fa freddo, non trova?
It's cold, don't You think?


Le sta bene, non trovi?
It suits her, don't you think?


È bello, non trovate?
It's beautiful, don't you think?


WISHING SOMEONE SOMETHING

To say that you hope someone will have a good time, a nice weekend and so on, use buon before a masculine word, buona before a feminine one.

Have a nice...!


Buon fine settimana!
Have a nice weekend!


Buon viaggio!
Have a good trip!


Buon appetito!
Enjoy your meal!


Buona notte!
Sleep well!


Buone vacanze!
Have a nice holiday!


Buon divertimento!
Have fun!


Alla salute!
Cheers! (when drinking)


Salute!
Bless you! (when somebody sneezes)



You can also use buon and buona when wishing someone Happy...!.

Happy...!


Buon Natale!
Happy Christmas!


Buon Anno!
Happy New Year!


Buon compleanno!
Happy birthday!


Buon anniversario di matrimonio!
Happy wedding anniversary!


Buona Pasqua!
Happy Easter!



BUONO A SAPERSI!
Altrettanto! (The same to you!) is a useful word. Use it in reply to expressions such as Buon Natale! (Happy Christmas!) and Buon appetito! (Enjoy your meal!), if you want to wish the other person the same thing back.

Good luck!


Buona fortuna!
Good luck!


Buona fortuna col nuovo lavoro!
Good luck with your new job!


Auguri per l'esame!
Good luck for the exam!



BUONO A SAPERSI!
Sometimes it's actually considered 'unlucky' to wish somebody good luck! Instead, you are supposed to say In bocca al lupo! (literally In the wolf's mouth!). It's informal, and the expected answer is Crepi il lupo! (May the wolf die!).

APOLOGIZING

To say I'm sorry, you can use mi dispiace, mi scuso or scusa. More formally, especially if you've done something more serious, you can use sono desolato, or sono desolata if you're a woman.

I'm sorry...


Mi dispiace, non intendevo offenderla.
I'm sorry, I didn't mean to offend You.


Mi dispiace di non averla richiamata prima.
I'm sorry that I didn't call You back sooner.


Mi scuso del ritardo.
I'm sorry I'm late.


Scusa, è colpa mia.
Sorry, it's my fault.


Sono veramente desolato!
I'm really sorry!



BUONO A SAPERSI!
You can also say chiedo scusa (sorry or excuse me), especially if you need to get past someone, or if you bump into them.

I'm afraid...


Ho paura di sì.
I'm afraid so.


Temo di sì.
I'm afraid so.


Temo di no.
I'm afraid not.


Ho paura di no.
I'm afraid not.


Temo di averlo rotto.
I'm afraid I may have broken it.


REASSURING SOMEONE

If someone apologizes to you or tells you they've accidentally done something, you can reassure them by saying non fa niente or non importa (it doesn't matter). There are also a number of other expressions you can use.

It doesn't matter


Non fa niente.
It doesn't matter.


Non importa.
It doesn't matter.


Non si preoccupi, signora!
Don't worry, madam!


Non preoccuparti!
Don't worry!


Non preoccuparti, non ha importanza.
Don't worry about it! It doesn't matter.


Nessun problema.
Don't worry about it.


OPINIONS

To express your opinion in Italian, you can use credo, penso (I think), or suppongo (I suppose).

I think so


Credo di sì.
I think so.


Penso di sì.
I think so.


Suppongo di sì.
I suppose so.


I don't think so


Non credo.
I don't think so.


Penso di no.
I don't think so.


Suppongo di no.
I suppose not.


I hope so


Lo spero.
I hope so.


Lo spero proprio.
I really hope so.


Spero di sì.
I hope so.


Spero proprio di no.
I really hope not.


I'm not sure


Non sono sicuro.
I'm not sure.


Non so.
I don't know.


Sei sicuro?
Are you sure?



BUONO A SAPERSI!
Remember that if you're a woman, you would say sicura instead of sicuro.

I doubt it


Ne dubito.
I doubt it.


Ho i miei dubbi.
I have my doubts.


I don't mind


Mi è indifferente.
I don't mind.


Non importa.
I don't mind.


Per me fa lo stesso.
It's all the same to me.


AGREEING, DISAGREEING AND DECLINING

The word for yes in Italian is sì.

Yes


Sì.
Yes.


Sì, certo.
Yes, of course.


That's true


È vero.
That's true.


Non è proprio vero.
That's not really true.


È proprio così.
It's exactly that.


I agree...


Sono completamente d'accordo.
I totally agree.


Sono d'accordo con Paola.
I agree with Paola.


Anch'io la penso così.
I think that too.



If someone asks you to do something, particularly useful phrases are D'accordo! (OK!), Certo! (Of course!) or Nessun problema! (No problem!). OK is also commonly used in Italian.

OK!


D'accordo!
OK!


Allora d'accordo.
OK, then.


OK, va bene così.
OK, that's fine.


Ti dispiace? - No, nessun problema.
Do you mind? - No, no problem.


Of course


Ma certo!
Of course!


Sì, certo.
Yes, of course.


Mi aiuterai? - Ma certo!
Will you help me? - Of course I will!



To disagree with someone or refuse something, you can use no or one of several other common sentences expressing disagreement.

No


No.
No.


Certo che no.
Of course not.


Non è vero.
That's not true.


Be', ti sbagli.
Well, you're wrong.


Non sono affatto d'accordo.
I don't agree at all.


Ha torto marcio.
He's completely in the wrong.



There are several words you can use with non posso (I can't) to say you regret being unable to do something, for example onestamente (honestly), sinceramente (truly), sfortunatamente (unfortunately).

I can't


Vorrei ma sfortunatamente non posso.
I'd like to but unfortunately I can't.


No, onestamente proprio non posso.
No, honestly, I just can't.


Mi dispiace ma non posso.
I'm afraid I can't.


Mi dispiace veramente, ma non mi sarà possibile venire.
I'm truly sorry, but I won't be able to make it.



If you don't want to commit yourself, forse is the easiest way of saying perhaps in Italian. There are several other ways of expressing uncertainty.

Perhaps


Forse.
Perhaps.


È possibile.
Possibly.


Potresti aver ragione.
You may be right.


Può essere benissimo.
It could well be.


Dipende.
It depends.


Vedremo.
We'll see.


Chissà, magari funziona.
Who knows, it might work.


Magari ce la facciamo.
We might still make it.


CONGRATULATING SOMEONE

To congratulate someone on their success, you can use Complimenti! or Congratulazioni! (Congratulations!). More informally, you can say bravo (or brava etc).

Congratulations!


Congratulazioni!
Congratulations!


Congratulazioni per aver superato gli esami!
Congratulations on passing your exams!


Complimenti!
Well done!


Complimenti per la tua promozione!
Congratulations on your promotion!


Bravo, complimenti!
Well done!


Bravissimi!
Well done, all of you!


Le mie più sentite congratulazioni agli sposi.
My warmest congratulations to the bride and groom.


REACTING TO GOOD AND BAD NEWS

It's important to know how to respond when someone tells you that they're well or that something good has happened to them.

Glad to hear it


Mi fa piacere.
Glad to hear it.


Sono proprio contenta per te!
I'm really pleased for you!


È una gran bella notizia.
That's very good news.


Che splendida notizia!
What wonderful news!


Splendido!
How wonderful!


Ottimo!
That's great!


Fantastico!
Fantastic!



To say you're sorry about something bad that's happened, you can use mi dispiace (I'm sorry).

I'm sorry!


Mi dispiace.
I'm sorry.


Mi dispiace tanto per tua zia.
I'm really sorry to hear about your aunt.


Ci dispiace moltissimo per quanto è successo.
We're very sorry about what happened.


Sentite condoglianze a lei e alla sua famiglia.
My condolences to You and Your family.



There are lots of useful expressions which mean things could be worse or it's not that bad, for example, non è poi così grave (it's not as bad as all that).

It's not as bad as all that


Non è poi così grave.
It's not as bad as all that.


Non è andata poi così male.
It didn't go too badly after all.


Coraggio! Poteva andar peggio.
Cheer up! It could have been worse.


Potrebbe esser peggio.
Things could be worse.


EXCLAMATIONS

In English we often use What a...! when saying how something affects us or how we feel about it. In Italian, you can use che before a noun.

What a...!


Che paura!
What a fright!


Che peccato!
What a shame!


Che sfortuna!
What bad luck!


Ma guarda che sorpresa!
What a surprise!


Che splendido edificio!
What a wonderful building!



BUONO A SAPERSI!
The English a is not translated into Italian in expressions like these.


In English you can use How...! in exclamations. In Italian you can use Com'è...! or Che...!.

How...!


Com'è bello!
How beautiful!


Che generoso da parte sua!
How generous of him!


Che sciocco!
How silly!


Che delusione!
How disappointing!


Interessante!
Interesting!



BUONO A SAPERSI!
Like in English, sometimes che (how) can be omitted.

SURPRISE

There are many ways you can express surprise in everyday Italian.



È incredibile!
That's incredible!


Ma che sorpresa!
What a surprise!


Da non crederci!
I can't believe it!


Non può essere!
That's impossible.


Ma tu guarda!
Well, what do you know!


Davvero?
Really?


Santo cielo! È tardissimo!
Oh dear! Is that the time?


ENCOURAGING SOMEONE

If you need to hurry someone up or get them to do something, you can say Forza! (Come on!).

Come on!


Forza, andiamo!
Come on! Let's go!


Forza! Siamo in ritardo.
Come on! We're late.


Coraggio che ce la fai!
Come on! You're going to make it!


Non mollare! Quasi ci sei!
Keep it up! You're nearly there!


Presto! Il treno sta per partire!
Quick! The train is about to go!


Sbrigati! Il film sta per cominciare!
Hurry up! The film's about to begin!



BUONO A SAPERSI!
You use Sbrigati! with a person you call tu, Si sbrighi! with someone you call lei, and Sbrigatevi! with more than one person.

HANDING SOMEONE SOMETHING

If you're handing someone something, you can say ecco to say here you are. You can also say tieni or, more formally, tenga, from the verb tenere.

Here you are


Ecco.
Here you are.


Tieni, sono i soldi per la corriera.
Here's the money for the bus.


Tenga, questa è la chiave della cassaforte.
Here You are, this is the key for Your safe.


DANGERS AND EMERGENCIES

Certain phrases are useful to know in the event of danger or emergencies. Here are some, though let's hope you don't have to make use of them.

Look out!


Attenzione!
Look out!


Stai attento!
Be careful!


Stia attenta, signora!
Be careful, madam!


Tenete d'occhio la borsa!
Watch your bags!


Aiuto!
Help!


Aiutatemi!
Help me!


Al ladro!
Stop thief!


Al fuoco!
Fire!


SPEAKING YOUR MIND

If you get into an argument, here are some very common phrases which may come in handy! Be sure to use plenty of body language too.

For goodness sake!


Ma per piacere!
For goodness sake!


Ma cosa fa?
What do You think You're doing?


Ma chi crede di essere?
Who do You think You are?


Mi prendi in giro, vero?
Are you joking?


Figuriamoci!
Honestly!


Incredibile.
I don't believe it.


Neanche per sogno.
It's out of the question.


Sciocchezze!
Nonsense!


Ma siamo matti?
This is crazy!


CONVERSATIONAL WORDS

Just as in English, there are lots of Italian words and expressions for linking different points together or for showing what your attitude towards something is. Here are the most useful of them. If you use them they will make you sound more fluent and natural.

a dire il vero


A dire il vero, non è solo colpa sua.
It's not just his fault, to be honest.


alla fine


Lo hai trovato, alla fine?
Did you manage to get hold of him in the
 end?


allora


Sono stanca. - E allora va a dormire.
I'm tired. - Go to bed, then.


E allora, che si fa?
What are we doing, then?


Ma allora aveva proprio ragione lui!
So, he was right after all!


E allora? - Allora, cosa?
So? - So what?


a proposito


A proposito, suoni ancora il sax?
Do you still play the sax, by the way?


comunque


Comunque è coperto dall'assicurazione.
It's covered by the insurance anyway.


È meglio andarci comunque.
It's best to go anyway.


davvero


Ho deciso di non invitarla. - Davvero?
I've decided not to invite her. - Really?


È davvero incredibile.
It's totally unbelievable.


dunque


Dunque, cos'hai deciso?
What have you decided, then?


e per finire


E per finire, una bella fetta di torta al cioccolato!
And to finish, a nice slice of chocolate cake!


e poi


E poi che facciamo?
Then what shall we do?


finalmente


Finalmente! È più di un'ora che ti aspetto!
At last! I've been waiting for you for over an hour!



BUONO A SAPERSI!
Remember that the Italian finalmente means at last, and is never translated by the English finally.

innanzitutto


Innanzitutto dovremmo telefonare all'agenzia.
First of all, we should call the agency.


in ogni caso


In ogni caso, il problema è suo, non nostro.
In any case, it's his problem, not ours.


inoltre


Sono stanca, e inoltre non ho nessuna voglia di andarci.
I'm tired and what's more I just don't feel like going.


insomma


Ma insomma! Te l'ho appena detto!
But I've just told you!


ma dai


Ma dai! Non è poi così complicato!
Oh come on! It's not that hard!



BUONO A SAPERSI!
In Italian ma is often used at the start of a sentence to make it more emphatic, for example Ma no! (No!!), Ma certo! (But of course!), Ma dai! (Oh come on!).

però


Però è strano, vero?
Still, it's strange, isn't it?


può darsi


Tornate l'anno prossimo? - Sì, può darsi.
Are you coming back next year? - Yes, maybe.


Può darsi che abbia preso un altro treno.
She might have caught a different train.


purtroppo


Purtroppo ha ragione lui.
Unfortunately, he's right.


va bene


Va bene, vado io.
OK, I'll go.


Rispondi tu? - Va bene.
Can you get that? - OK.









NOUNS
The gender of nouns
In Italian all nouns are either masculine or feminine:
• il, lo, un or uno before a noun tells you that it is masculine
• la or una before a noun tells you that it is feminine
Whenever you are using a noun, you need to know whether it is masculine or feminine as this affects the form of other words used with it, such as:
• adjectives that describe it, for example Che bella città! (What a nice town!)
• articles that go before it, for example Il treno è in ritardo (The train is running late)
• pronouns that replace it, for example Te lo presento dopo (I'll introduce him to you later)
Adjectives, articles and pronouns are also affected by whether a noun is singular or plural.
Nouns referring to people
Most nouns referring to men and boys are masculine.


un uomo
a man


un ragazzo
a boy


Most nouns referring to women and girls are feminine.


una ragazza
a girl


una siciliana
a woman from Sicily


Nouns referring to things
In English we call all things - for example, table, car, book - 'it'. In Italian, however, things are either masculine or feminine.
In most cases, it is possible to work out a noun's gender by its ending:
• words ending in -a are generally feminine, for example, una pasticceria (a baker's), una banca (a bank)
• words ending in -o are generally masculine, for example, un panino (a sandwich), un gatto (a cat)
• words ending with a consonant are often masculine, for example, il film (the film), un autobus (a bus).
• words ending in -à, -sione and -zione are often feminine, for example, una città (a town), una pensione (a guesthouse), la stazione (the station)
Note that words ending in -e are masculine in some cases and feminine in others, for example, il pallone (the ball), la gente (people).
Also, be aware that a handful of very common words ending in -a are masculine: un problema (a problem), il programma (the programme), il clima (the climate). And some nouns ending with a consonant can be feminine, for example una jeep.
Names of days of the week and months are masculine, for example, il lunedì (on a Monday), il luglio scorso (last July), as are the names of languages, for example, il francese (French), il giapponese (Japanese). Names of towns are feminine in Italian: Parigi è bella (Paris is beautiful).
ARTICLES
Translating the
In Italian, articles - the words for the and a - vary according to the gender of the noun they are used with. The definite article the in English can be translated as follows:


the
with masculine nouns
with feminine nouns


singular
il or lo (l')
la (l')


plural
i or gli
le


There are a number of rules to help you remember which form of the definite article to use:
• Use il and i with most masculine nouns starting with a consonant:
e.g. il ragazzo (the boy), i bambini (the children).
• Use la and le with most feminine nouns starting with a consonant:
e.g. la ragazza (the girl), le sorelle (the sisters).
• Use lo and gli with nouns starting with z, or s+ another consonant, gn, pn, ps, x or y:
e.g. lo zio (the uncle), lo stagno (the pond), lo yogurt (the yoghurt), gli zaini (the rucksacks).
• Use gli before masculine plural nouns starting with a vowel or with h:
e.g. gli amici (the friends), gli hotel (the hotels).
• Use l' with all singular nouns, feminine or masculine, starting with a vowel or with h: e.g. l'amico (the friend), l'arancia (the orange), l'hotel (the hotel).
When using the definite article (il, lo, la, I', i, gli, le) with the prepositions a, da, di, in and su (to, from, of, in and on) the preposition and the article can combine to make a new form:


• a + article
→
al/allo/alla/all'/ai/agli/alle


• da + article
→
dal/dallo/dalla/dall'/dai/dagli/dalle


• di + article
→
del/dello/della/dell'/dei/degli/delle


• in + article
→
nel/nello/nella/nell'/nei/negli/nelle


• su + article
→
sul/sullo/sulla/sull'/sui/sugli/sulle


Translating a, an, some, any
The indefinite articles a and an can be translated as un or una depending on whether the word they are used with is masculine or feminine.


 
with masculine nouns
with feminine nouns


singular
un or uno
una or un'


plural
dei or degli
delle




un bambino
a boy


uno scolaro
a pupil


una riunione
a meeting


un'amica
a girlfriend




C'erano dei ragazzini qua fuori.
There were some kids out here.


Incontrava degli amici.
She was meeting some friends.


Avresti delle graffette?
Have you got any clips?


To say some bread, some pasta and so on (i.e. some + a noun in the singular), in Italian you can use del (or dello), della (or dell').


C'è ancora del pane, se vuoi.
There's still some bread left, if you'd like it.


Potremmo avere dell'acqua, per
Could we have some water, please? piacere?


Italian uses the definite article much more than English does. As a rule of thumb, Italian sentences rarely start with a noun that has no article.


La Toscana è molto bella.
Tuscany is very beautiful.


La mamma arriva subito.
Mum is coming.


Non mi piace il riso.
I don't like rice.


In Italian you use the article before my, your, his etc.


Quella è la mia macchina.
That's my car.


With body parts in Italian you can use the article instead of my, your, his etc.


Dammi la mano.
Give me your hand.


PRONOUNS
Subject pronouns
Subject pronouns are words such as I, he, she and they which perform the action expressed by the verb.


io
I


tu (informal, singular)
you


lui (masculine)
he, it


lei (feminine; polite form)
she, it; You


noi
we


voi (plural)
you


loro
they



BUONO A SAPERSI!
The pronouns egli (he), ella (she), esso/essa (it), and essi (they) are still used in literary and formal written Italian, so you may well come across them. However, they are not generally used in spoken Italian.

When do you use subject pronouns in Italian?
Italian pronouns are rarely used in Italian, as the verb ending makes it clear who the subject is. However, you must use them:
• when there is no verb in Italian:


Chi è il più bravo? - Lui.
Who is the best? - He is.


• for emphasis, contrast or clarity:


Pago io!
I'll get this!


Io vado, e tu?
I'm going, what about you?


• after anche (too) or neanche (neither or either):


Vengo anch'io.
I'm coming too.


Neanche lui lo sa.
He doesn't know either.


How do you say you in Italian?
In English we have only one way of saying you. In Italian there are three words: tu, lei and voi.
• Use tu when you are speaking to a person you know well, or to a child.
• Use lei when speaking to strangers, or anyone you're not on familiar terms with.
• Use voi if you in English refers to more than one person.
As personal pronouns are rarely spelt out in Italian, you'll need to infer which form is being used from the verb ending. As in the rest of the text, in the examples that follow a lower case you signals that tu is being implied in the Italian example sentence, You alerts you to the implied use of the polite form lei, and you to the plural form voi:


Mi presti un CD?
Will you lend me a CD?


Mi ripete il nome, per favore?
Could You repeat Your name, please?


Venite?
Are You coming?



BUONO A SAPERSI!
If you are in doubt as to which form of you to use, it is safest to use lei and you will not offend anyone.

Direct object pronouns
Direct object pronouns are words such as me, him, us and them, which are used instead of a noun. They stand in for the person or thing most directly affected by the action of the verb. In Italian they are:


mi
me


ti (informal, singular)
you


lo (masculine)
him, it


la (feminine; polite form)
her, it; You


ci
us


vi (plural)
you


li
them


Unlike English, you usually put Italian direct object pronouns before the verb.


Mi ha chiamato Maria.
Maria called me.


Ho preso il giornale. Lo vuoi leggere?
I've bought the paper. Do You want to read it?


In some cases, for instance when you use the imperative in Italian, the pronoun
is joined onto the verb.


Chiamami domani.
Call me tomorrow.


The pronoun can also be joined onto the verb when you use the infinitive, although in this case, you can also keep the pronoun separate from the verb.


Posso aiutarti?
Can I help you?


Ti posso aiutare?
Can I help you?


Indirect object pronouns
An indirect object pronoun is used instead of a noun to show the person or thing the action is intended to benefit, for example the word me in He did it for me. Here are the Italian indirect object pronouns:


mi
me, to me, for me


ti (informal, singular)
you, to you, for you


gli (masculine)
him, to him, for him; it, to it, for it


le (feminine; polite form)
her, to her, for her; it, to it, for it You, to You, for You


ci
us, to us, for us


vi (plural)
you, to you, for you


gli /loro
them, to them, for them


Unlike English, you usually put the pronoun before the verb.


Me l'ha dato Francesca.
Francesca gave it to me.


Gli ho dato la cartina.
I gave him the map.


Ho chiesto loro di restare.
I've asked them to stay.



BUONO A SAPERSI!
Although gli is also commonly used to translate for them/to them etc., the grammatically correct word is loro, which is still used, although generally in writing or in more formal speech.

Stressed object pronouns
These are pronouns used instead of a noun when you want to emphasize something, for example the word me in Is this for me? They are exactly the same as the subject pronouns, except that me and te are used instead of io and tu.


me
I, me


te (informal, singular)
you


lui (masculine)
he, him, it


lei (feminine; polite form)
she, her, it; You


noi
we, us


voi (plural)
you


loro
they, them


Stressed object pronouns are mostly used after a preposition or for emphasis and contrast.


Vieni con me.
Come with me.


Non guardava me, guardava lei.
He wasn't looking at me, he was looking ather.


Using si
In English you and one are used in general statements and questions such as Can you park here?; One has to be careful. For these kinds of statements and questions in Italian, use the impersonal form of the verb with si.


Si può nuotare qui?
Can you swim here?


ADJECTIVES
Agreement of adjectives
In Italian you need to know how to change adjectives to make them agree with the noun or pronoun they are describing. Here are some general rules:
To make an adjective feminine:
• if the masculine adjective ends in -o, change -o to -a:


un ragazzo simpatico
a nice boy


una ragazza simpatica
a nice girl


You don't change the ending for the feminine:
• if the masculine adjective ends in -e
• in the case of some colours
• if the adjective ends with a consonant


un treno veloce
a fast train


una macchina veloce
a fast car


un tappeto blu
a blue carpet


una tovaglia blu
a blue tablecloth


un gruppo pop
a pop group


la musica pop
pop music


To make an adjective plural:
• if the masculine singular adjective ends in -o, change -o to -i:


un fiore rosso
a red flower


dei fiori rossi
red flowers


• if the feminine singular adjective ends in -a, change -a to -e:


una gonna nera
a black skirt


delle gonne nere
black skirts


• if the adjective ends in -e, change -e to -i for both masculine and feminine plural:


un esercizio difficile
a difficult exercise


degli esercizi difficili
difficult exercises


una storia triste
a sad story


delle storie tristi
sad stories


Some adjectives don't change in the plural.


una macchina blu
one blue car


due macchine blu
two blue cars



BUONO A SAPERSI!
Note that when you're describing a couple consisting of a man and a woman or a group of people, you should use a masculine plural adjective unless the group consist entirely of females (in which case you should use a feminine plural adjective).

Word order with adjectives
Italian adjectives usually go after the noun, especially adjectives describing colours, shapes or nationalities.


la cucina italiana
Italian food


delle cravatte rosse
red ties


There are some very common expressions where the adjective goes before the noun.


una bella giornata
a lovely day


Buona fortuna!
Good luck!


Some adjectives can either go before or after the noun, but their meaning changes depending on where they go.


una casa vecchia
an old house


un mio vecchio amico
an old friend of mine (long-standing)


Cara Maria
Dear Maria


un ristorante caro
an expensive restaurant


The following adjectives always precede the noun they refer to:
• mio, tuo, suo etc (my, your, his etc)


mio fratello
my brother


• questo, quello etc (this, that etc)


questa strada
this street


quei ragazzi
those boys


• ogni (each, every), qualche (some) and nessuno (no)


ogni giorno
every day


qualche errore
some mistakes


nessuna chiamata
no calls


• quale, quanto etc in questions (which, what, how much)


Quanta pasta vuoi?
How much pasta do you want?


Quali programmi hai?
What plans do you have?


If two adjectives are used with a noun and they both come after it, they are joined together by e (and).


una persona interessante e divertente
an interesting, funny person


Comparisons
To say that something is bigger, more beautiful and so on, put più (more) before the adjective. To say that something is less important, less expensive and so on, put meno (less) before the adjective. than is translated by di, which can become del, dello, della, dell', dei, degli or delle when used with the definite article (il, lo, la, I', i, gli, le).


Emma è più alta di te.
Emma is taller than you.


La mia stanza è meno spaziosa della tua.
My room is less spacious than yours.


If you want to say the most ...use il più/la più ... etc.


la più bella città del mondo or la città più bella del mondo
the most beautiful city in the world


Possessive adjectives
In English a possessive adjective is one of the words my, your, his, her, its, our or their used with a noun to show that one person or thing belongs to another.

Possessive adjectives agree with the noun they describe, not with the person who owns that thing. For example sua can mean his, her, its and Your (polite form), but can only be used with a feminine noun. Note that in Italian you use the article before mio, tuo etc.


I miei genitori sono in pensione.
My parents are retired.


La sua macchina è dal meccanico.
His or her or Your car is at the garage.


The article is not used when mio, tuo etc are immediately followed by nouns referring to relatives (mother, father etc).


Mio fratello si chiama Leo.
My brother is called Leo.



BUONO A SAPERSI!
You must use the article, however, where you describe a relative using an adjective, for example, la mia cara nonna (my dear grandmother).
QUESTIONS
How to ask a question in Italian
There are several ways of asking a question in Italian.
• If you are expecting the answer yes or no keep the word order as it would be in an ordinary sentence, but turn it into a question by making your voice go up at the end of the sentence.


Prendi un caffè?
Would you like a coffee?


• You can also ask a question by changing the word order in the sentence.


È bella la Calabria?
Is Calabria nice?


In Italian, you can answer with a simple sì or no, when in English you would tend to add a short phrase.


Sa nuotare? - Sì.
Can he swim? - Yes, he can.


If you wish to use a fuller phrase, in Italian you need to repeat the whole verb.


Sa nuotare? - Sì, sa nuotare.
Can he swim? - Yes, he can.


NEGATIVES
Making sentences negative
In Italian, if you want to make a statement negative, you generally use non. Note that non comes in front of the verb. There is no equivalent in Italian to the English don't/doesn't as used in questions.


Non fumo.
I don't smoke.


Jeremy non abita più qui.
Jeremy doesn't live here anymore.


neanch'io or nemmeno io are interchangeable and are the equivalent of English phrases like me neither, neither do I, neither was I, and so on. You can use it in all situations without worrying about the tense of the verb.


Non sono mai stata in Spagna. - Neanch'io.
I've never been to Spain. - Neither have I.


Non lo conosco. - Nemmeno io.
I don't know him. - Neither do I.


Io non ci vado, e neanche lui.
I'm not going and neither is he.


Word order with negatives
If there are words such as mi, ti, ci, vi, li or le in front of the verb, non goes immediately in front of them.


Marco non mi ha telefonato.
Marco didn't phone me.


Non l'ho vista.
I didn't see her.


In phrases like not now, not yet etc, non comes before the other word.


non ancora
not now


non sempre
not always


You use no instead of non in certain phrases:


sempre no, ma qualche volta
not always, but sometimes


Credo di no.
I don't think so.


Ha detto di no.
He said no.


Vieni o no?
Are you coming or not?


In English you only use one negative word in a sentence: I haven't ever seen him, as opposed to I haven't never seen him. In Italian you can use two negatives, i.e. non and another word such as niente (nothing), mai (never) and so on.


Non hanno fatto niente.
They haven't done anything.


Non la vedo mai.
I never see her.


Non c'era nessuno.
There was nobody there.


If the sentence begins with a negative word, such as niente or nessuno, do not use non with the verb that comes after it.


Nessuno è venuto.
Nobody came.


SOME COMMON TRANSLATION DIFFICULTIES
Often you can't translate Italian into English and English into Italian word for word. The next section points out some common translation difficulties to watch out for.
Prepositions
English phrasal verbs, for example, to run away, to fall down, are often translated by one word in Italian.


scappare
to run away


cadere
to fall down


Sentences which contain a verb and preposition in English might not contain a preposition in Italian, and vice versa.


ascoltare qualcosa
to listen to something


telefonare a qualcuno
to call somebody


The same Italian preposition may be translated into English in different ways, and vice versa.


Sono in treno.
I'm on the train.


Vado a Milano in treno.
I'm going to Milan by train.


dipinto da un grande artista
painted by a great artist


Singular and plural nouns
A word which is singular in English may not be in Italian, and vice versa.


i bagagli (plural)
luggage


la gente (singular)
people


The verb to be
The verb to be is generally translated by essere.


Sono sposati.
They are married.


When you are talking about location, trovarsi can also be used.


Mi trovavo a Milano.
I was in Milan.


In certain set phrases which describe how you are feeling or a state you are in, the verb avere is used.


avere caldo
to be warm


avere freddo
to be cold


avere fame
to be hungry


avere sete
to be thirsty


avere paura
to be afraid


avere ragione
to be right


avere torto
to be wrong


When you are talking about someone's age, use the verb avere.


Quanti anni hai?
How old are you?


Ho quindici anni.
I'm fifteen.


stare is used for to be in some common contexts:


Come stai?
How are you?


Sto benissimo.
I'm very well.


Vuole stare solo.
He wants to be alone.


Stai zitto.
Be quiet.


stare is also used to make continuous tenses.


Stava studiando.
She was studying.



BUONO A SAPERSI!
The continuous form to be...-ing is often translated in Italian with a simple tense, for example, Arrivo. (I'm coming.).

When you are talking about the time, use è or sono.


Che ora è? or Che ore sono?
What time is it?


È l'una.
It's one o'clock.


Sono le sette.
It's seven o'clock.


can, to be able
If you want to talk about someone's physical ability to do something, use potere or riuscire.


Puoi fare dieci chilometri a piedi?
Can you walk ten kilometres?


Non riesco a uscire.
I can't get out.


If you want to say that you know how to do something, use sapere.


Non sa nuotare.
She can't swim.


Non so guidare.
I can't drive.


Showing possession
In English, you can use 's and s' to show who or what something belongs to. In Italian, you have to use di.


la macchina di mio fratello
my brother's car


la camera delle bambine
the girls' bedroom


VERBS
Introduction to verbs
Verbs are usually used with a subject: a noun, or a pronoun such as I, you or he, or with somebody's name. They can relate to the present, the past and the future - this is called their tense.
Verbs can be either:
• Regular: their forms follow the normal rules
• Irregular: their forms do not follow the normal rules
Regular English verbs have a base form (the form without any endings added to it, for example, walk). The base form can have to in front of it, for example, to walk - this is called the infinitive.
Italian verbs also have an infinitive, which generally ends in -are, -ere, or -ire, for example, parlare (to speak), credere (to believe), dormire (to sleep).
As well as the base form and the infinitive, English verbs have forms ending in -s (walks), -ing (walking), and -ed (walked). Italian verbs have many more forms than this, which are made by adding endings to a stem. The stem of a regular verb can be worked out from its infinitive.
Italian verb endings change, depending on who you are talking about: io (I), tu (you) lui/lei/Lei (he/she/You), in the singular, or noi (we), voi (you) and loro (they) in the plural. Italian verbs also have different forms depending on whether you are referring to the present, the past or the future.
In English, pronouns such as I, you and he are very often used as the subject of a verb. In Italian, pronouns are used much less often because the form of the verb itself shows who the subject is.
Irregular verbs
Some verbs in Italian do not follow the normal rules and are called irregular verbs. These include some very common and important verbs like avere (to have), essere (to be), fare (to do or to make) and andare (to go). The most common irregular verbs are shown in the verb tables, along with a number of others that you may need to use. For more detailed information on all the most important irregular verbs in Italian, use Collins Easy Learning Italian Verbs.
A few common irregular verbs have infinitives endings in -rre. For example:


comporre
to compose


condurre
to lead


porre
to put


produrre
to produce


proporre
to propose


ridurre
to reduce


supporre
to suppose


tradurre
to translate


Regular verbs
There are three main groups of regular verbs:
• -are verbs: verbs that end in -are like parlare (shown in full on page 275)
• -ere verbs: verbs that end in -ere like credere (shown in full on page 276)
• -ire verbs: verbs that end in -ire like dormire (shown in full on page 277)
These are called regular verbs because they follow set patterns. When you have learned these patterns you will be able to form any regular verb.
To form the stem of the verb for the present, future, conditional, imperfect, imperative or subjunctive of any regular verb, take the infinitive minus the last three letters, for example, parlare → parl-; credere → cred-; dormire → dorm-, and add the appropriate ending.
There are sets of endings for regular -are verbs, for regular -ere verbs and for regular -ire verbs. Verb endings for regular verbs are highlighted in orange in the verb tables on the following pages.
One group of regular -ire verbs take the same endings as dormire, but add isc to the stem in the io, tu, lui/lei/Lei and loro present and present subjunctive forms. Important examples of this type of -ire verb are capire (to understand), preferire (to prefer), and finire (to finish).


preferisco
I prefer


preferiamo
we prefer


capisce
he understands


capite tutti
you all understand


finisci
you finish


finiscono
they are finishing


To form the perfect tense of any regular verb, you need:
• to know the present tense forms of avere and essere (see pages 279 and 282)
• to be able to form the past participle
To form the past participle of regular verbs, take the infinitive minus the last three letters, for example, parlare → parl-; credere → cred-; dormire → dorm-, and add the appropriate ending -ato, -uto, or -ito. The past participles of parlare, credere and dormire are therefore parlato, creduto, and dormito.
Some verbs are irregular in some forms and not in others. avere (to have), andare (to go), volere (to want), dovere (to have to), sapere (to know) and potere (to be able), for example, all have regular past participles: avuto, andato, voluto, dovuto, saputo and potuto.
Common irregular past participles
Many verbs that are regular in most of their forms have irregular past participles. Here are some important examples:


aprire, aperto
to open, opened


chiedere, chiesto
to ask, asked


chiudere, chiuso
to close, closed


decidere, deciso
to decide, decided


leggere, letto
to read, read


mettere, messo
to put, put


offrire, offerto
to offer, offered


prendere, preso
to take, taken


rimanere, rimasto
to stay, stayed


scendere, sceso
to get off, got off


scrivere, scritto
to write, written


Reflexive verbs
Reflexive verbs are used with reflexive pronouns such as myself, yourself and herself in English, for example I washed myself; he shaved himself. Italian reflexive verbs are shown in the dictionary as infinitives with their final e replaced by si (oneself), for example divertirsi (to enjoy oneself), chiamarsi (to be called).
Many verbs are reflexive in Italian, but not in English:


accomodarsi
to sit down


addormentarsi
to go to sleep


alzarsi
to get up


annoiarsi
to get bored


chiamarsi
to be called


incontrarsi
to meet


perdersi
to get lost


preoccuparsi
to worry


ricordarsi
to remember


sedersi
to sit down


sbrigarsi
to hurry


sposarsi
to get married


svegliarsi
to wake up


trovarsi
to meet


vestirsi
to get dressed


To use a reflexive verb in Italian, you need to decide which reflexive pronoun to use. Here are the Italian reflexive pronouns:


subject pronoun
reflexive pronoun
meaning


io
mi
myself


tu
ti
yourself


luileiLei
si
himselfherselfYourself


noi
ci
ourselves


voi
vi
yourselves


loro
si
themselves


The reflexive pronoun is added onto the end of infinitives, but otherwise it generally comes before the verb:


Dove vuole sedersi?
Where would You like to sit?


Mi chiamo Silvia.
My name's Silvia.


Quando vi sposate?
When are you getting married?


Va bene se ci incontriamo là?
Does it suit you okay if we meet there?


VERB TENSES
The present tense
The present tense is used to talk about what is true at the moment, what happens regularly and what is happening now, for example, I'm a student; he works as a consultant; I'm studying Italian.
There are two present tense forms in English, with different meanings. For example, you can say I speak or I'm speaking. In Italian both meanings can be expressed by parlo:


Parlo un pessimo italiano.
I speak terrible Italian.


Parlo troppo veloce?
Am I speaking too fast?


It is possible to use another form: sto parlando, which is the exact equivalent of I am speaking, but this form is much less common in Italian than in English. It is used to stress that something is happening right now:


Stanno arrivando!
They're coming!


Cosa stai facendo?
What are you doing?


In English you can also use the present to talk about something that is going to happen in the near future. You can do the same in Italian.


Parto domani alle undici.
I'm leaving tomorrow at eleven.


Arriva la settimana prossima.
She's coming next week.


The future tense
The future tense is used to talk about something that will happen or will be true. There are several ways to express the future tense in English: you can use the future tense (I'll ask him on Tuesday), the present tense (I'm not working tomorrow), or going to followed by an infinitive (she's going to study in Italy for a year). In Italian you can use the future tense or the present tense.


Quando saranno pronti i documenti?
When will the documents be ready?


Se non le dispiace ripasso sabato.
If You don't mind I'll come back on Saturday.


Vedo Gianni giovedì.
I'm seeing Gianni on Thursday.


Pensi di rivederlo?
Are you going to see him again?


The imperfect tense
The imperfect tense is used to talk about the past, especially in descriptions, and to say what used to happen, for example I used to work in Manchester; it was sunny yesterday.


Ieri mi sentivo bene.
I felt fine yesterday.


Quanto pensava di spendere?
How much were You thinking of spending?


Tu gli hai detto che andava
You told him it was okay, didn't you? bene, no?


Ci trovavamo ogni venerdì.
We used to meet every Friday.


The perfect tense
In English the perfect tense is made with the verb have and the past participle: I have done; he has gone. This form has a different meaning from the simple past (I did; he went).
In Italian the perfect tense is also made up of two parts: the present tense of avere or essere, and the past participle. To find out how to form the past participle of any regular verb in Italian, see page 269.
Both the English perfect (I have done), and the English simple past (I did) are translated by the Italian perfect.


Ma insomma! Te l'ho appena detto!
But I have just told you!


Te l'ho detto ieri.
I told you yesterday.


Most verbs form the perfect tense with avere. There are two main groups of verbs which form their perfect tense with essere instead of avere: all reflexive verbs (see page 269) and a group of verbs that are mainly used to talk about movement or a change of some kind, including:


andare
to go


venire
to come


succedere
to happen


partire
to leave, to go


scendere
to go down, to come down, to get off


salire
to go up, to come up


entrare
to go in, to come in


uscire
to go out, to come out


morire
to die


nascere
to be born


divenire
to become


restare
to stay


cadere
to fall


Si è rotto una gamba.
He's broken his leg.


Com'è andata la vacanza?
How was your holiday?


Sono partita prima di lui.
I left before him.


The imperative
The imperative is a verb form used to give orders and instructions, for example, Be quiet!, Don't do that!, Please fill in this form.
In Italian, you give instructions or orders to someone by adding the appropriate endings to the verb stem, depending on whether the infinitive ends in -are, -ere, or -ire.
To make suggestions (let's; shall we?), the noi form of the imperative is used.


Parlami del tuo nuovo ragazzo.
Tell me about your new boyfriend.


Compili questo modulo, per
Please fill in this form. cortesia.


Aiutatemi!
Help me!


Prendiamo prima un aperitivo?
Shall we have a drink first?


To tell someone not to do something, non is used with the imperative, except in the case of a person you call tu, when non is used with the infinitive.


Non dimenticate ragazzi.
Don't forget children.


Non preoccuparti!
Don't worry!


The subjunctive
The present subjunctive is a verb form that is often used after che.


Vuole che parli più piano?
Do You want me to speak more slowly?


Bisogna che tu vada di persona.
You must go in person.


The imperfect subjunctive is used after E se ...? to make a suggestion.


E se passassimo la notte qui?
How about spending the night here?


E se ci andassimo in traghetto?
How about going there by ferry?


The conditional
The conditional is used to talk about things that would happen or that would be true under certain conditions, for instance, I would help you if I could. It is also used to say what you would like or need, for example, Could you give me the bill?


Mi piacerebbe rivederti.
I'd like to see you again.


Quando ti andrebbe bene?
When would be a good time for you?


Portrebbe portarci i caffè?
Could You bring us our coffee?


The conditional of preferire is followed by che and the imperfect subjunctive to say what you'd like someone to do.


Preferirei che mi rimborsasse.
I'd rather You gave me my money back.


Preferirei che spedisse la pratica
I'd rather You sent the file by post. per posta.









PARLARE
to speak


 
present
 
present subjunctive


(io)
parlo
(io)
parli


(tu)
parli
(tu)
parli


(lui/lei/Lei)
parla
(lui/lei/Lei)
parli


(noi)
parliamo
(noi)
parliamo


(voi)
parlate
(voi)
parliate


(loro)
parlano
(loro)
parlino





 
perfect
 
imperfect


(io)
ho parlato
(io)
parlavo


(tu)
hai parlato
(tu)
parlavi


(lui/lei/Lei)
ha parlato
(lui/lei/Lei)
parlava


(noi)
abbiamo parlato
(noi)
parlavamo


(voi)
avete parlato
(voi)
parlavate


(loro)
hanno parlato
(loro)
parlavano





 
future
 
conditional


(io)
parlerò
(io)
parlerei


(tu)
parlerai
(tu)
parleresti


(lui/lei/Lei)
parlerà
(lui/lei/Lei)
parlerebbe


(noi)
parleremo
(noi)
parleremmo


(voi)
parlerete
(voi)
parlereste


(loro)
parleranno
(loro)
parlerebbero





 
imperative
 
past participle


 
parla/parliamo
 
parlato


 
parlate
 
 


 
gerund
 
 


 
parlando
 
 


example phrases


Pronto, chi parla?
Hello, who's speaking?


Di cosa parla quel libro?
What is that book about?


Lascia che gli parli io.
Let me talk to him.



CREDERE
to believe


 
present
 
present subjunctive


(¡o)
credo
(io)
creda


(tu)
credi
(tu)
creda


(lui/lei/Lei)
crede
(lui/lei/Lei)
creda


(noi)
crediamo
(noi)
crediamo


(voi)
credete
(voi)
crediate


(loro)
credono
(loro)
credano





 
perfect
 
imperfect


(io)
ho creduto
(io)
credevo


(tu)
hai creduto
(tu)
credevi


(lui/lei/Lei)
ha creduto
(lui/lei/Lei)
credeva


(noi)
abbiamo creduto
(noi)
credevamo


(voi)
avete creduto
(voi)
credevate


(loro)
hanno creduto
(loro)
credevano





 
future
 
conditional


(io)
crederò
(io)
crederei


(tu)
crederai
(tu)
crederesti


(lui/lei/Lei)
crederà
(lui/lei/Lei)
crederebbe


(noi)
crederemo
(noi)
crederemmo


(voi)
crederete
(voi)
credereste


(loro)
crederanno
(loro)
crederebbero





 
imperative
 
past participle


 
credi/crediamo
 
creduto


 
credete
 
 


 
gerund
 
 


 
credendo
 
 


example phrases


Non ci credo!
I don't believe it!


Non dirmi che credi ai fantasmi!
Don't tell me you believe in ghosts!


Non voglio che lei creda che sono un bugiardo.
I don't want her to think I'm a liar.



DORMIRE
to sleep


 
present
 
present subjunctive


(io)
dormo
(io)
dorma


(tu)
dormi
(tu)
dorma


(lui/lei/Lei)
dorme
(lui/lei/Lei)
dorma


(noi)
dormiamo
(noi)
dormiamo


(voi)
dormite
(voi)
dormiate


(loro)
dormono
(loro)
dormano





 
perfect
 
imperfect


(io)
ho dormito
(io)
dormivo


(tu)
hai dormito
(tu)
dormivi


(lui/lei/Lei)
ha dormito
(lui/lei/Lei)
dormiva


(noi)
abbiamo dormito
(noi)
dormivamo


(voi)
avete dormito
(voi)
dormivate


(loro)
hanno dormito
(loro)
dormivano





 
future
 
conditional


(io)
dormirò
(io)
dormirei


(tu)
dormirai
(tu)
dormiresti


(lui/lei/Lei)
dormirà
(lui/lei/Lei)
dormirebbe


(noi)
dormiremo
(noi)
dormiremmo


(voi)
dormirete
(voi)
dormireste


(loro)
dormiranno
(loro)
dormirebbero





 
imperative
 
past participle


 
dormi/dormiamo
 
dormito


 
dormite
 
 





 
gerund
 
 


 
dormendo
 
 


example phrases


Era così stanco che dormiva in piedi.
He was so tired he was asleep on his feet.


Dormivo e non ti ho sentita entrare.
I was asleep and didn't hear you come in.


Sta dormendo.
She's sleeping.



ANDARE
to go


 
present
 
present subjunctive


(¡o)
vado
(io)
vada


(tu)
vai
(tu)
vada


(lui/lei/Lei)
va
(lui/lei/Lei)
vada


(noi)
andiamo
(noi)
andiamo


(voi)
andate
(voi)
andiate


(loro)
vanno
(loro)
vadano





 
perfect
 
imperfect


(io)
sono andato/a
(io)
andavo


(tu)
sei andato/a
(tu)
andavi


(lui/lei/Lei)
è andato/a
(lui/lei/Lei)
andava


(noi)
siamo andati/e
(noi)
andavamo


(voi)
siete andati/e
(voi)
andavate


(loro)
sono andati/e
(loro)
andavano





 
future
 
conditional


(io)
andrò
(io)
andrei


(tu)
andrai
(tu)
andresti


(lui/lei/Lei)
andrà
(lui/lei/Lei)
andrebbe


(noi)
andremo
(noi)
andremmo


(voi)
andrete
(voi)
andreste


(loro)
andranno
(loro)
andrebbero





 
imperative
 
past participle


 
vai/andiamo
andato


 
andate





 
gerund
 
 


 
andando
 
 


example phrases


Su, andiamo!
Come on, let's go!


Come va? - bene, grazie!
How are you? - fine thanks!


La mamma vuole che tu vada a fare la spesa.
Mum wants you to go and do the shopping.



AVERE
to have


 
present
 
present subjunctive


(io)
ho
(io)
abbia


(tu)
hai
(tu)
abbia


(lui/lei/Lei)
ha
(lui/lei/Lei)
abbia


(noi)
abbiamo
(noi)
abbiamo


(voi)
avete
(voi)
abbiate


(loro)
hanno
(loro)
abbiano





 
perfect
 
imperfect


(io)
ho avuto
(io)
avevo


(tu)
hai avuto
(tu)
avevi


(lui/lei/Lei)
ha avuto
(lui/lei/Lei)
aveva


(noi)
abbiamo avuto
(noi)
avevamo


(voi)
avete avuto
(voi)
avevate


(loro)
hanno avuto
(loro)
avevano





 
future
 
conditional


(io)
avrò
(io)
avrei


(tu)
avrai
(tu)
avresti


(lui/lei/Lei)
avrà
(lui/lei/Lei)
avrebbe


(noi)
avremo
(noi)
avremmo


(voi)
avrete
(voi)
avreste


(loro)
avranno
(loro)
avrebbero





 
imperative
 
past participle


 
abbi/abbiamo
 
avuto


 
abbiate
 
 





 
gerund
 
 


 
avendo
 
 


example phrases


All'inizio ha avuto un sacco di problemi.
He had a lot of problems at first.


Ho già mangiato.
I've already eaten.


Ha la macchina nuova.
She's got a new car.



DARE
to give


 
present
 
present subjunctive


(io)
do
(io)
dia


(tu)
dai
(tu)
dia


(lui/lei/Lei)
dà
(lui/lei/Lei)
dia


(noi)
diamo
(noi)
diamo


(voi)
date
(voi)
diate


(loro)
danno
(loro)
diano





 
perfect
 
imperfect


(io)
ho dato
(io)
davo


(tu)
hai dato
(tu)
davi


(lui/lei/Lei)
ha dato
(lui/lei/Lei)
dava


(noi)
abbiamo dato
(noi)
davamo


(voi)
avete dato
(voi)
davate


(loro)
hanno dato
(loro)
davano





 
future
 
conditional


(io)
darò
(io)
darei


(tu)
darai
(tu)
daresti


(lui/lei/Lei)
darà
(lui/lei/Lei)
darebbe


(noi)
daremo
(noi)
daremmo


(voi)
darete
(voi)
dareste


(loro)
daranno
(loro)
darebbero





 
imperative
 
past participle


 
dai or da'/diamo
dato
 


 
date
 
 


 
gerund
 
 


 
dando


example phrases


Gli ho dato un libro.
I gave him a book.


Può darsi che sia malata.
She may be ill.


La mia finestra dà sul giardino.
My window looks onto the garden.



DOVERE
to have to


 
present
 
present subjunctive


(io)
devo
(io)
debba


(tu)
devi
(tu)
debba


(lui/lei/Lei)
deve
(lui/lei/Lei)
debba


(noi)
dobbiamo
(noi)
dobbiamo


(voi)
dovete
(voi)
dobbiate


(loro)
devono
(loro)
debbano





 
perfect
 
imperfect


(io)
ho dovuto
(io)
dovevo


(tu)
hai dovuto
(tu)
dovevi


(lui/lei/Lei)
ha dovuto
(lui/lei/Lei)
doveva


(noi)
abbiamo dovuto
(noi)
dovevamo


(voi)
avete dovuto
(voi)
dovevate


(loro)
hanno dovuto
(loro)
dovevano





 
future
 
conditional


(io)
dovrò
(io)
dovrei


(tu)
dovrai
(tu)
dovresti


(lui/lei/Lei)
dovrà
(lui/lei/Lei)
dovrebbe


(noi)
dovremo
(noi)
dovremmo


(voi)
dovrete
(voi)
dovreste


(loro)
dovranno
(loro)
dovrebbero





 
imperative
 
past participle


 
—
 
dovuto





 
gerund
 
 


 
dovendo
 
 


example phrases


Ora devo proprio andare.
I've really got to go now.


Devi finire i compiti prima di uscire.
You must finish your homework before you go out.


Dev'essere tardi.
It must be late.



ESSERE
to be


 
present
 
present subjunctive


(¡o)
sonó
(io)
sia


(tu)
sei
(tu)
sia


(lui/lei/Lei)
è
(lui/lei/Lei)
sia


(noi)
siamo
(noi)
siamo


(voi)
siete
(voi)
siate


(loro)
sonó
(loro)
siano





 
perfect
 
imperfect


(io)
sono stato/a
(io)
ero


(tu)
sei stato/a
(tu)
eri


(lui/lei/Lei)
è stato/a
(lui/lei/Lei)
era


(noi)
siamo stati/e
(noi)
eravamo


(voi)
siete stati/e
(voi)
eravate


(loro)
sono stat¡/e
(loro)
erano





 
future
 
conditional


(io)
sarò
(io)
sarei


(tu)
sarai
(tu)
saresti


(lui/lei/Lei)
sarà
(lui/lei/Lei)
sarebbe


(noi)
saremo
(noi)
saremmo


(voi)
sarete
(voi)
sareste


(loro)
saranno
(loro)
sarebbero





 
imperative
 
past participle


 
sii/siamo
 
stato


 
siate
 
 





 
gerund
 
 


 
essendo
 
 


example phrases


Sono italiana.
I'm Italian.


Mario è appena partito.
Mario has just left.


Siete mai stati in Africa?
Have you ever been to Africa?



FARE
to do, to make


 
present
 
present subjunctive


(io)
faccio
(io)
faccia


(tu)
fai
(tu)
faccia


(lui/lei/Lei)
fa
(lui/lei/Lei)
faccia


(noi)
facciamo
(noi)
facciamo


(voi)
fate
(voi)
facciate


(loro)
fanno
(loro)
facciano





 
perfect
 
imperfect


(io)
ho fatto
(io)
facevo


(tu)
hai fatto
(tu)
facevi


(lui/lei/Lei)
ha fatto
(lui/lei/Lei)
faceva


(noi)
abbiamo fatto
(noi)
facevamo


(voi)
avete fatto
(voi)
facevate


(loro)
hanno fatto
(loro)
facevano





 
future
 
conditional


(io)
farò
(io)
farei


(tu)
farai
(tu)
faresti


(lui/lei/Lei)
farà
(lui/lei/Lei)
farebbe


(noi)
faremo
(noi)
faremmo


(voi)
farete
(voi)
fareste


(loro)
faranno
(loro)
farebbero





 
imperative
 
past participle


 
fai or fa'/
 
fatto


 
faciammo/fate
 
 





 
gerund
 
 


 
facendo
 
 


example phrases


Due più due fa quattro.
Two and two makes four.


Fa il medico.
He is a doctor.


Fa caldo.
It's hot.



POTERE
to be able


 
present
 
present subjunctive


(¡o)
posso
(io)
possa


(tu)
puoi
(tu)
possa


(lui/lei/Lei)
può
(lui/lei/Lei)
possa


(noi)
possiamo
(noi)
possiamo


(voi)
potete
(voi)
possiate


(loro)
possono
(loro)
possano





 
perfect
 
imperfect


(io)
ho potuto
(io)
potevo


(tu)
hai potuto
(tu)
potevi


(lui/lei/Lei)
ha potuto
(lui/lei/Lei)
poteva


(noi)
abbiamo potuto
(noi)
potevamo


(voi)
avete potuto
(voi)
potevate


(loro)
hanno potuto
(loro)
potevano





 
future
 
conditional


(io)
potrò
(io)
potrei


(tu)
potrai
(tu)
potresti


(lui/lei/Lei)
potrà
(lui/lei/Lei)
potrebbe


(noi)
potremo
(noi)
potremmo


(voi)
potrete
(voi)
potreste


(loro)
potranno
(loro)
potrebbero





 
imperative
 
past participle


 
—
 
potuto





 
gerund
 
 


 
potendo
 
 


example phrases


Si può visitare il castello tutti i giorni dell'anno.
You can visit the castle any day of the year.


Può aver avuto un incidente.
She may have had an accident.


Speriamo che voi possiate aiutarci.
We hope you can help us.



VOLERE
to want


 
present
 
present subjunctive


(io)
voglio
(io)
voglia


(tu)
vuoi
(tu)
voglia


(lui/lei/Lei)
vuole
(lui/lei/Lei)
voglia


(noi)
vogliamo
(noi)
vogliamo


(voi)
volete
(voi)
vogliate


(loro)
vogliono
(loro)
vogliano





 
perfect
 
imperfect


(io)
ho voluto
(io)
volevo


(tu)
hai voluto
(tu)
volevi


(lui/lei/Lei)
ha voluto
(lui/lei/Lei)
voleva


(noi)
abbiamo voluto
(noi)
volevamo


(voi)
avete voluto
(voi)
volevate


(loro)
hanno voluto
(loro)
volevano





 
future
 
conditional


(io)
vorrò
(io)
vorrei


(tu)
vorrai
(tu)
vorresti


(lui/lei/Lei)
vorrà
(lui/lei/Lei)
vorrebbe


(noi)
vorremo
(noi)
vorremmo


(voi)
vorrete
(voi)
vorreste


(loro)
vorranno
(loro)
vorrebbero





 
imperative
 
past participle


 
—
 
voluto





 
gerund
 
 


 
volendo
 
 


example phrases


Voglio comprare una macchina nuova.
Devo pagare subito o posso pagare domani? - Come vuole.


I want to buy a new car.
Do I have to pay now or can I pay tomorrow? - As You prefer.










VOCABULARY BUILDER
A
a, an un, una, uno
able to be able to essere capace di
about (relating to) su; (approximately) circa; What is it about? Di che cosa tratta?; I don't know anything about it Non ne so niente; at about 10 o'clock verso le dieci
above sopra; above the bed sopra il letto
abroad all'estero
abscess l'ascesso m
accelerator l'acceleratore m
accent l'accento m
to accept accettare; Do you accept credit cards? Accettate carte di credito?
access l'accesso m wheelchair access l'accesso per disabili
accident l'incidente m
accident & emergency department il pronto soccorso
accommodation l'alloggio m
according to secondo; according to him secondo lui
account (bank) il conto in banca
account number il numero del conto
to ache fare male; My head aches Mi fa male la testa; It aches Fa male
across (on the other side) dall'altra parte di
ad l'annuncio m
address l'indirizzo m Here's my address Ecco il mio indirizzo
admission charge il biglietto d'ingresso
to admit to admit to hospital ricoverare in ospedale
adult l'adulto, l'adulta; for adults per adulti
advance in advance in anticipo
advice il consiglio
to advise consigliare
A&E il pronto soccorso
aeroplane l'aeroplano m
afraid to be afraid of avere paura di
after dopo
afternoon il pomeriggio; in the afternoon nel pomeriggio; this afternoon questo pomeriggio; tomorrow afternoon domani pomeriggio
afterwards dopo
again di nuovo; I won't go there again Non ci torno più
against contro; I'm against the idea Sono contrario all'idea
age l'età f
agency l'agenzia f
ago a week ago una settimana fa; a month ago un mese fa
to agree essere d'accordo
agreement l'accordo m
air aria; by air in aereo
air bed il materassino gonfiabile
air-conditioning l'aria f condizionata
air-conditioning unit il condizionatore
air freshener il deodorante per ambienti
airline la linea aerea
air mail by airmail per posta aerea
airplane l'aeroplano m
airport l'aeroporto m
aisle il corridoio
alarm l'allarme m
alarm clock la sveglia
alcohol l'alcol m
alcoholic (drink) alcolico(a)
all tutto(a); all day tutto il giorno; all the books tutti i libri
allergic allergico(a); I'm allergic to ... Sono allergico a...
to allow permettere; It's not allowed Non è permesso
all right (agreed) va bene; to be all right andare bene; (person) stare bene; Are You all right? Sta bene?
almost quasi
alone solo(a)
along lungo; along the beach lungo la spiaggia
alphabet l'alfabeto m
Alps le Alpi
already già
also anche
altogether in tutto; 20 euros altogether 20 euro in tutto
always sempre
am del mattino; at 4 am alle quattro del mattino
ambulance l'ambulanza f
America l'America f
American americano(a)
among tra
amount (quantity) la quantità; (total) la somma
anchovies le acciughe
and e
angry arrabbiato(a)
animal l'animale m
ankle la caviglia
to annoy dare fastidio
another un altro, un'altra; Another beer, please Un'altra birra, per favore
answer la riposta
to answer rispondere
answering machine la segreteria telefonica
answerphone la segreteria telefonica
antibiotic l'antibiotico m
antifreeze l'antigelo m
antihistamine l'antistaminico m
antique shop il negozio d'antiquariato
antiseptic l'antisettico m
any qualche; (whichever) qualsiasi; I haven't got any Non ne ho; I don't play tennis any more Non gioco più a tennis
anyone (in questions) qualcuno; (in negative sentences) nessuno
anything (in questions) qualcosa; (in negative sentences) niente
anyway comunque
anywhere (in questions) da qualche parte; (in negative sentences) da nessuna parte; You can buy them almost anywhere Li puoi comprare quasi dappertutto
apart from a parte; Apart from that ... A parte questo...
apartment l'appartamento m
apple la mela
application form il modulo di domanda
appointment l'appuntamento m I have an appointment Ho un appuntamento
approximately circa
apricot l'albicocca f
April aprile m
arm il braccio
to arrange sistemare
to arrive arrivare
art l'arte f
art gallery la galleria d'arte
arthritis l'artrite f
as come; (when) quando; (since) dato che; as if come se
ashtray il portacenere
to ask chiedere; to ask for something chiedere qualcosa; I'd like to ask you a question Vorrei farti una domanda
aspirin l'aspirina f
asthma l'asma f I have asthma Ho l'asma
at a; at home a casa; at 8 o'clock alle 8; at once subito; at night di notte
attractive attraente
aubergine la melanzana
August agosto
aunt la zia
Australia l'Australia f
Australian australiano(a)
automatic automatico(a)
automatic car la macchina con cambio automatico
auto-teller il Bancomat®
autumn l'autunno m
available disponibile
avocado l'avocado m
awake to be awake essere sveglio(a)
away far away lontano; he's away è via
awful terribile
axle (in car) il semiasse m
B
baby il bambino, la bambina
baby food gli alimenti per bambini
baby milk (formula) il latte per bambini
baby's bottle il biberon
babysitter il/la babysitter
back (of body) la schiena
back (of body) la schiena; (not front) la parte posteriore; to go back tornare indietro
backpack lo zaino
bad (weather, news) brutto(a); (food, mood) cattivo(a)
bag la borsa
baggage i bagagli
baggage allowance il peso consentito di bagaglio
baggage reclaim il ritiro bagagli
baker's la panetteria
ball la palla; (large: football, rugby) il pallone; (small: golf, tennis) la pallina
banana la banana
band (rock music) il gruppo
bandage la fascia
bank (for money) la banca
bank account il conto in banca
banknote la banconota
bar (pub) il bar; a bar of chocolate la tavoletta di cioccolato
barbecue il barbecue; to have a barbecue fare una grigliata
barber's il barbiere
basil il basilico
basket il cestino
bath il bagno; (bathtub) la vasca; to have a bath fare un bagno
bathing cap la cuffia
bathroom il bagno; with bathroom con bagno
battery (for car) la batteria; (for radio, camera) la pila
to be essere; I'm cold Ho freddo; I'm fine Sto bene
beach la spiaggia; on the beach sulla spiaggia
bean il fagiolo
beard la barba
beautiful bello(a)
because perché
become diventare; to become ill ammalarsi
bed il letto; double bed il letto matrimoniale; single bed il letto a una piazza; twin beds i letti gemelli
bed and breakfast (place) la pensione familiare; How much is it for bed and breakfast? Quanto viene la camera con la prima colazione?
bedroom la camera da letto
beef il manzo
beer la birra
before prima di; before we go prima di andare; I've seen this film before Ho già visto questo film
to begin cominciare; to begin doing cominciare a fare
behind dietro a; behind the house dietro alla casa
beige beige
to believe credere
bell (door) il campanello; (church) la campana
to belong to appartenere a; (club) far parte di; That belongs to me È mio
below sotto
belt la cintura
beside accanto a; beside the bank accanto alla banca
best il/la migliore
better meglio; better than meglio di
between fra
bib (baby's) il bavaglino
bicycle la bicicletta; by bicycle in bicicletta
bicycle pump la pompa per bicicletta
big (house, car) grande; (animal, book, parcel) grosso(a)
bike (pushbike) la bici; (motorbike) la moto f
bikini il bikini
bill il conto
bin (dustbin) il bidone
bird l'uccello m
biro la biro f
birthday il compleanno; Happy birthday! Buon compleanno!; my birthday is on ... il mio compleanno è il...
birthday card il biglietto d'auguri di compleanno
biscuits i biscotti
bit a bit (of) un po' (di)
bitter amaro(a)
black nero(a)
black ice il ghiaccio sulla strada
blanket la coperta
to bleed sanguinare; My nose is bleeding Ho sangue di naso
blind (for window) la tapparella
blind (person) cieco(a)
blister la vescica
block of flats il palazzo
blocked ostruito(a); The sink is blocked Il lavandino è ostruito; I have a blocked nose Ho il naso chiuso
blond (person) biondo(a)
blood il sangue
blood group il gruppo sanguigno
blood pressure la pressione sanguigna
blouse la camicetta
blow-dry la messa in piega a phon
blue azzurro(a); dark blue blu; light blue azzurro(a)
to board (bus, train) salire su; (ship, plane) imbarcarsi su; What time are we boarding? A che ora è l'imbarco?
boarding card la carta d'imbarco
boat la barca; (rowing) la barca a remi
boat trip la gita in battello
body il corpo
boiler la caldaia
bone l'osso m (fish) la lisca
bonnet (of car) il cofano
book il libro
to book prenotare
booking la prenotazione
booking office l'ufficio m prenotazioni
bookshop la libreria
boot (of car) il bagagliaio
boots (knee-high) gli stivali; (of soldier, for hiking) gli scarponi
bored I'm bored Mi annoio
boring It's boring È noioso
born I was born in Rome Sono nato a Roma
to borrow Can I borrow Your map? Mi presta la cartina?
boss il capo
both entrambi; I'd like both T-shirts Mi piacciono entrambe le magliette; We both went Ci siamo andati entrambi
bottle la bottiglia; a bottle of wine una bottiglia di vino; a half-bottle of ... una mezza bottiglia di...
bottle opener l'apribottiglie m
bottom il fondo
box la scatola
box office il botteghino
boy il ragazzo; (small) il bambino; (son) il figlio
boyfriend il ragazzo
bra il reggiseno
bracelet il braccialetto
brake il freno
to brake frenare
brake fluid il liquido dei freni
brake lights gli stop
brake pads le pastiglie dei freni
branch (of bank) la filiale
brand (make) la marca
bread il pane; wholemeal bread il pane integrale; (French stick) il filoncino; sliced bread il pancarré
to break rompere
breakdown (car) il guasto
breakdown van il carro-attrezzi
breakfast la colazione
to breathe respirare
bride la sposa
bridegroom lo sposo
bridge il ponte
briefcase la cartella
to bring portare
Britain la Gran Bretagna
British britannico(a)
broadband l'ADSL m
broccoli i broccoli
brochure l'opuscolo m
broken rotto(a); My leg is broken Ho una gamba rotta
broken down (car) guasto(a)
brooch la spilla
brother il fratello
brother-in-law il cognato
brown marrone
bucket il secchio
buffet car (train) il vagone ristorante
building l'edificio m
bulb (light) la lampadina
bumper (on car) il paraurti
bunch a bunch of flowers un mazzo di fiori; a bunch of grapes un grappolo d'uva
bureau de change l'ufficio m cambi
burger l'hamburger m
burglar il ladro, la ladra
burglar alarm l'allarme m antifurto
burnt (food) bruciato(a)
bus l'autobus m (coach) la corriera; by bus in autobus (o in corriera)
bus pass la tessera dell'autobus
bus station la stazione delle corriere
bus stop la fermata dell'autobus
business gli affari; He's got his own business Ha un'attività in proprio
business card il biglietto da visita
business class business class
businessman l'uomo d'affari
businesswoman la donna d'affari
business trip il viaggio d'affari
busy impegnato(a); He's very busy È molto impegnato
but ma
butcher's la macelleria
butter il burro
button il bottone
to buy comprare
by (beside) accanto a; (cause, agent) da; (in time expressions) entro; by the church accanto alla chiesta; a painting by Picasso un quadro di Picasso; They were caught by the police Sono stati catturati dalla polizia; I have to be there by 3 o'clock Devo essere lì entro le tre; by car in macchina
C
cab il taxi
cablecar la funivia
café il bar
cake (large) la torta; (small) il pasticcino
cake shop la pasticceria
call (telephone) la telefonata; a long distance call una chiamata interurbana
to call (speak, phone) chiamare
camcorder la videocamera
camera la macchina fotografica
camera shop il negozio di ottica
camera phone il telefonino con fotocamera
to camp campeggiare
camping gas il gas da campeggio
camping stove il fornellino da campeggio
campsite il campeggio
can (to be able to) potere; (to know how to) sapere; I can't do that Non posso farlo; I can swim So nuotare
can (of beans) la scatola; (of beer) il barattolo
can opener l'apriscatole m
Canada il Canada
Canadian canadese
to cancel (booking, appointment) disdire
candle la candela
canoeing to go canoeing andare in canoa
capital (city) la capitale
cappuccino il cappuccino
car la macchina; to go by car andare in macchina
car alarm l'antifurto m
car hire l'autonoleggio m
car insurance l'assicurazione f della macchina
car park il parcheggio
carafe la caraffa
caravan la roulotte
carburettor il carburatore
card (greetings) il biglietto d'auguri; (business) il biglietto da visita; playing cards le carte da gioco
cardigan il cardigan
careful attento(a); Be careful! Stai attento!
carriage (on train) il vagone
carrot la carota
to carry portare
case (suitcase) la valigia; in any case in ogni caso
cash i contanti
to cash (cheque) incassare
cash desk la cassa
cash dispenser (ATM) il Bancomat®
cashpoint il Bancomat®
cassette player il registratore
castle il castello
casualty department il pronto soccorso
cat il gatto
to catch (bus, train, plane) prendere
cathedral il duomo
Catholic cattolico(a)
cauliflower il cavolfiore
CD il CD
CD player il lettore CD
CD-ROM il CD-ROM
ceiling il soffitto
cent il centesimo
centimetre il centimetro
central The hotel is very central L'albergo è in posizione molto centrale
central heating il riscaldamento autonomo
central locking la chiusura centralizzata
centre il centro
century il secolo
cereal i cereali
certificate il certificato
chair la sedia
chairlift la seggiovia
chalet (in the mountains) lo chalet; (in resort) il bungalow
chambermaid la cameriera
change gli spiccioli; I haven't got any change Non ho spiccioli; Can You give me change for ten euros? Può cambiarmi dieci euro?; Keep the change Tenga il resto
to change cambiare; to change 50 euros cambiare 50 euro; to change trains in Paris cambiare treno a Parigi
changing room lo spogliatoio
Channel (English) Il Canale della Manica
charge (fee) la tariffa; to be in charge essere responsabile
to charge (money) far pagare; (battery, phone) caricare; Please charge it to my account Lo metta sul mio conto, per favore; I need to charge my phone Dovrei caricare il telefonino
charter flight il volo charter
chatroom la chat
cheap economico(a)
cheaper più economico(a)
to check (oil, level, amount) controllare
to check in (at airport) fare il check-in; (at hotel) fare la registrazione
check-in (desk) il banco accettazione
cheers! (toast) Cin-cin!
cheese il formaggio
chemist's la farmacia
cheque l'assegno m
cherry la ciliegia
chewing gum la gomma di masticare
chicken il pollo
child il bambino, la bambina
children i bambini; for children per bambini
chilli il peperoncino
chips le patatine fritte
chiropodist il/la pedicure
chocolate la cioccolata
to choose scegliere
chop (meat) la cotoletta
Christian name il nome di battesimo
Christmas il Natale; Merry Christmas! Buon Natale!
Christmas card il biglietto d'auguri natalizi
Christmas Eve la vigilia di Natale
church la chiesa
cigar il sigaro
cigarette la sigaretta
cigarette lighter l'accendino m
cinema il cinema m
circle (theatre) la galleria
city la città
city centre il centro
class la classe; first-class di prima classe; second-class di seconda classe
clean pulito(a)
to clean pulire
cleaner (person) l'addetto(a) alle pulizie
clear (explanation) chiaro(a)
clever intelligente
client il/la cliente
climate il clima m
to climb (mountain) scalare; to go climbing fare roccia
clinic la clinica
cloakroom il guardaroba m
clock l'orologio m
close close by vicino(a)
to close chiudere
closed chiuso(a)
clothes i vestiti
clothes shop il negozio d'abbigliamento
club il club
clutch (in car) la frizione
coach (bus) il pullman
coach trip la gita in pullman
coal il carbone
coast la costa
coat il cappotto
coat hanger la gruccia
cockroach lo scarafaggio
cocktail il cocktail
code il codice; (dialling code) il prefisso
coffee il caffè; white coffee il caffellatte; black coffee il caffè americano; decaffeinated coffee il decaffeinato
Coke® la Coca
cold freddo(a); I'm cold Ho freddo; It's cold Fa freddo; cold water acqua fredda
cold (illness) il raffreddore; I have a cold Ho il raffreddore
collar il colletto
colleague il/la collega
to collect (someone) andare a prendere
colour il colore
colour film (for camera) la pellicola a colori
comb il pettine
to come venire; (to arrive) arrivare
to come back tornare
to come in entrare; Come in! Avanti!
comfortable comodo(a)
company (firm) la ditta
compartment (on train) lo scompartimento
compass la bussola
to complain presentare un reclamo; We're going to complain to the manager Presenteremo un reclamo al direttore
complaint (in shop, hotel) il reclamo
complete completo(a)
compulsory obbligatorio(a)
computer il computer
concert il concerto
concert hall la sala concerti
concession la riduzione
conditioner il balsamo
condom il preservativo
conductor (on bus, train) il bigliettaio
conference la conferenza
to confirm confermare; Please confirm La prego di inviare conferma
confirmation (flight, booking) la conferma
congratulations! congratulazioni!
connection (train, plane) la coincidenza
consulate il consolato
to consult consultare
to contact mettersi in contatto con; Where can we contact You? Dove possiamo contattarla?
contact lens le lenti a contatto
contact lens cleaner il liquido per lenti a contatto
to continue continuare
contraceptive il contraccettivo
contract il contratto
convenient Is it convenient? Va bene?
to cook cucinare
cooker il fornello
cookies i biscotti
cool (place) fresco(a)
copy (duplicate) la copia
to copy copiare; (photocopy) fotocopiare
cork il tappo
corkscrew il cavatappi
corner l'angolo m the shop on the corner il negozio all'angolo
cornflakes i cornflakes
corridor il corridoio
cost il costo
to cost costare; How much does it cost? Quanto costa?
cot il lettino
cotton il cotone
cotton wool il cotone idrofilo
cough la tosse
to cough tossire
cough mixture lo sciroppo per la tosse
counter (shop, bar) il banco
country (not town) la campagna; (nation) il paese; I live in the country Vivo in campagna
couple (two people) la coppia; a couple of ... un paio di...
courgette la zucchina
courier service il corriere
course (of meal) la portata; first course il primo piatto; main course il piatto forte
cousin il cugino, la cugina
cover charge (in restaurant) il coperto
crab il granchio
crash (car) lo scontro
crash helmet il casco
cream (food) la panna; (lotion) la crema
credit il credito
credit card la carta di credito
crisps le patatine
croissant la brioche
to cross (road) attraversare
crowded affollato(a)
cruise la crociera
cucumber il cetriolo
cufflinks i gemelli
cup la tazza
cupboard l'armadio m
current (air, water) la corrente
customs (at border) la dogana
to cut tagliare
cut il taglio
to cycle andare in bicicletta
cycle track la pista ciclabile
cycling il ciclismo
D
daily (each day) ogni giorno
dairy products i latticini
damage i danni
damp umido(a)
to dance ballare
dangerous pericoloso(a)
dark (colour) scuro(a)
date la data
date of birth la data di nascita
daughter la figlia
daughter-in-law la nuora
day il giorno; every day ogni giorno; it costs 50 euros per day costa 50 euro al giorno
dead morto(a)
deaf sordo(a)
dear (expensive, in letter) caro(a)
decaffeinated decaffeinato(a)
December dicembre m
deckchair la sedia a sdraio
deep profondo(a)
deep freeze il congelatore
delay il ritardo; How long is the delay? Di quant'è il ritardo?
delayed in ritardo
delicatessen il negozio di specialità gastronomiche
delicious delizioso(a)
dental floss il filo interdentale
dentist il/la dentista
dentures la dentiera
deodorant il deodorante
department il reparto
department store il grande magazzino
departure lounge la sala partenze
departures le partenze
desk (in hotel, airport) il banco
dessert il dolce
details personal details le generalità
detergent il detersivo
to develop (photos) sviluppare
diabetic diabetico(a); I'm diabetic Sono diabetico
to dial (a number) comporre
dialling code il prefisso telefonico
dialling tone il segnale di libero
diapers i pannolini
diarrhoea la diarrea
dictionary il dizionario
diesel il gasolio; a diesel car una macchina diesel
diet la dieta; I'm on a diet Sono a dieta
different diverso(a)
difficult difficile
digital camera la fotocamera digitale
dining room la sala da pranzo
dinner (evening meal) la cena; to have dinner cenare
direct (train, flight) diretto(a)
directions to ask for directions chiedere la strada
directory phone directory l'elenco m telefonico
directory enquiries il servizio informazioni
dirty sporco(a)
disabled disabile
to disagree non essere d'accordo
disco la discoteca
discount lo sconto
dish il piatto
dishwasher la lavastoviglie
disinfectant il disinfettante
disk il disco
to dislocate (joint) lussarsi
disposable usa e getta
district (of town) il quartiere; (of country) la zona
divorced divorziato(a)
dizzy I feel dizzy Mi gira la testa
to do fare; How are You doing? Come va?; How do You do? Piacere
doctor il medico
documents i documenti
dog il cane
dollar il dollaro
domestic domestic flight il volo interno
door la porta
double doppio(a); double bed il letto matrimoniale; double room la camera doppia
down giù; to go down the stairs scendere le scale
to download scaricare
downstairs dabbasso; the flat downstairs l'appartamento m al piano di sotto
draught there's a draught c'è corrente d'aria
draught lager la birra alla spina
drawing il disegno
dress il vestito
to dress vestirsi
dressed to get dressed vestirsi
drink la bibita
to drink bere
drinking water l'acqua f potabile
to drive guidare
driver l'autista m/f
driving licence  la patente
dry (weather, wine) secco(a); (clothes, paint) asciutto(a)
to dry asciugare
dry-cleaner's il lavasecco
due When is the rent due? Quando bisogna pagare l'affitto?; When is the train due to arrive? Quando è previsto l'arrivo del treno?
during durante
dust la polvere
duster lo straccio
duty-free esente da dazio
duvet il piumino
DVD il DVD
DVD player il lettore DVD
E
each ogni
ear l'orecchio m
earache il mal m d'orecchi I have earache Ho mal d'orecchi
earlier più presto; I saw him earlier L'ho già visto; Is there an earlier flight? C'è un volo che parte prima?
early presto
earphones le cuffie
earrings gli orecchini
east l'est m
Easter la Pasqua
easy facile
to eat mangiare
ecological ecologico(a)
egg l'uovo m fried eggs le uova al tegame; hard-boiled egg l'uovo sodo; scrambled eggs le uova strapazzate; soft-boiled egg l'uovo alla coque
eggplant la melanzana
either I've never been to Corsica - I haven't either Non sono mai stato in Corsica - Neanch'io
elastoplast® il cerotto
electric elettrico(a)
electric blanket la coperta elettrica
electric razor il rasoio elettrico
electrician l'elettricista m/f
electric point la presa di corrente
electronic elettronico(a)
electronic organiser l'agenda f elettronica
elevator l'ascensore m
e-mail la e-mail; to e-mail somebody mandare una e-mail a qualcuno
e-mail address l'indirizzo m di posta elettronica
embassy l'ambasciata f
emergency l'emergenza f
empty vuoto(a)
end la fine
engaged (to be married) fidanzato(a); (phone, toilet etc) occupato(a)
engine il motore
England l'Inghilterra f
English inglese; (language) l'inglese m
Englishman an Englishman un inglese
Englishwoman an Englishwoman un'inglese
to enjoy to enjoy oneself divertirsi; I enjoy swimming Mi piace nuotare; Enjoy your meal! Buon appetito!
enough abbastanza; I haven't got enough money Non ho abbastanza soldi; That's enough Basta così
enquiry desk il banco informazioni
to enter (to get in) entrare in
entrance l'ingresso m
entrance fee il biglietto d'ingresso
envelope la busta
equipment l'attrezzatura f
escalator la scala mobile
essential essenziale
estate agent's l'agenzia f immobiliare
euro l'euro m
euro cent il centesimo
Europe l'Europa f
European europeo(a)
even anche; even on Sundays anche di domenica; even though, even if anche se; even if it rains anche se piove
evening la sera; this evening stasera; tomorrow evening domani sera; in the evening di sera; at 7 o'clock in the evening alle sette di sera
evening meal la cena
every ogni; every time ogni volta
everyone tutti
everything tutto
everywhere dappertutto
examination (school, medical) l'esame m
example esempio; for example per esempio
excellent ottimo(a)
except for eccetto; except for me eccetto me
exchange in exchange for in cambio di
to exchange scambiare
exchange rate il tasso di cambio
excursion l'escursione f
excuse Excuse me! Mi scusi!; (to get by) Permesso!
exhaust pipe il tubo di scappamento
exhibition la mostra
exit l'uscita f
expensive caro(a)
to expire (ticket, passport) scadere
to explain spiegare
express (train) l'espresso m to send a letter express mandare una lettera espresso
expresso l'espresso m
extra (in addition) supplementare; Can you give me an extra blanket? Posso avere una coperta in più?; There's an extra charge C'è un supplemento
eye l'occhio m
eyeliner l'eyeliner m
eye shadow l'ombretto m
F
fabric la stoffa
face il viso
fair (hair) biondo(a); That's not fair Non è giusto
fair (funfair) il luna park; a trade fair una fiera
fake falso(a)
fall (autumn) l'autunno m
to fall over cadere; He fell over È caduto
family la famiglia
famous famoso(a)
fan (handheld) il ventaglio; (electric) il ventilatore; (of football club, band) il/la fan; (of music) il patito, la patita
far lontano(a); Is it far? È lontano?; How far is it? Quanto dista?
farm la fattoria
farmhouse la fattoria
fashionable alla moda
fast veloce; too fast troppo veloce
fat (plump) grasso(a); (in food, on person) il grasso
father il padre
father-in-law il suocero
fault (defect) il difetto; It's not my fault Non è colpa mia
favourite preferito(a)
fax il fax; by fax via fax
to fax (document) mandare via fax; to fax someone mandare un fax a qualcuno
February febbraio
to feed dare da mangiare a
to feel sentirsi; I don't feel well Non mi sento bene; I feel sick Ho la nausea
ferry il traghetto
festival il festival
to fetch andare a prendere
few pochi; few tourists pochi turisti; with a few friends con alcuni amici
fiancé il fidanzato
fiancée la fidanzata
fig il fico
file (computer) il file
to fill riempire
to fill in (form) riempire
to fill up Fill it up please! (car) Il pieno per favore!
fillet il filetto
filling (in tooth) l'otturazione f
film (at cinema) il film; (for camera) la pellicola
to find trovare
fine (to be paid) la multa
fine bene; I'm fine Sto bene; The weather is fine Il tempo è bello
finger il dito
to finish finire
finished finito(a)
fire (electric, gas) il fornello; (open) il fuoco; (accidental) l'incendio m
fire alarm l'allarme m antincendio
firm la ditta
first primo(a)
first aid il pronto soccorso
first class la prima classe; to travel first class viaggiare in prima classe
first name il nome di battesimo
fish (food) il pesce
to fish pescare
fishing la pesca
fishmonger's la pescheria
to fit (clothes) andare bene; It doesn't fit me Non mi va bene
fitting room il camerino
to fix (repair) aggiustare
fizzy gassato(a); fizzy water acqua gassata
flash (for camera) il flash
flask il thermos
flat l'appartamento m
flat (battery) scarico(a); (beer) svampito(a)
flat tyre la gomma a terra
flavour (taste) il sapore; (of ice cream) il gusto; Which flavour? A che gusto?
flaw il difetto
fleas le pulci
flesh la carne
flex (electrical) il filo
flight il volo
flippers le pinne
floor (of room) il pavimento; (of building) il piano; Which floor? A che piano?; on the ground floor al pianterreno; on the first floor al primo piano
floppy disk il dischetto
flour la farina
flower il fiore
flu l'influenza f
fly la mosca
to fly (person, bird) volare
fly sheet il telo esterno
fog la nebbia
foggy It's foggy C'è nebbia
food il cibo
foot il piede; to go on foot andare a piedi
football il calcio
football match la partita di calcio
for per; for me per me; for five euros per cinque euro; I've been here for two weeks Sono qui da due settimane; She'll be away for a month Starà via per un mese
foreign straniero(a)
foreigner lo straniero, la straniera
forever per sempre
to forget dimenticare; to forget to do dimenticare di fare
fork (for eating) la forchetta
form (document) il modulo
fortnight due settimane
forward avanti
four-wheel drive vehicle una macchina a quattro ruote motrici
free (not occupied) libero(a); (costing nothing) gratis; Is this seat free? È libero questo posto?
freezer il congelatore
French francese; (language) il francese
French fries le patatine fritte
frequent frequente
fresh fresco(a)
Friday il venerdì
fridge il frigorifero
fried fritto(a)
friend l'amico, l'amica
friendly amichevole
frog la rana
from da; Where are You from? Di dove è?; from nine o'clock dalle nove in poi
front davanti; in front of davanti a
frozen (food) surgelato(a)
fruit la frutta
fruit juice il succo di frutta
fruit salad la macedonia
frying-pan la padella
fuel (petrol) la benzina
fuel tank il serbatoio della benzina
full (tank, glass) pieno(a); (restaurant, hotel) al completo
full board la pensione completa
funfair il luna park
funny divertante
furnished ammobiliato(a)
furniture i mobili
G
gallery la galleria
game il gioco
garage (for petrol) la stazione di servizio; (for parking) il garage; (for repair) l'officina f
garden il giardino
garlic l'aglio m
gas il gas
gas cooker il fornello a gas
gas cylinder la bombola del gas
gate il cancello; (at airport) l'uscita f
gay (person) gay
gear la marcia; first gear la prima; reverse gear la retromarcia
gearbox il cambio
gents (toilet) la toilette (degli uomini)
genuine autentico(a)
to get (to receive) ricevere; (to fetch) prendere
to get in (vehicle) salire in
to get out (vehicle) scendere da
gift il regalo
gift shop il negozio di articoli da regalo
girl la ragazza; (small) la bambina
girlfriend la ragazza
to give dare
to give back restituire
glass (for drinking) il bicchiere; (material) il vetro; a glass of water un bicchiere d'acqua
glasses (spectacles) gli occhiali
gloves i guanti
to go andare; to go home tornare a casa
to go back ritornare
to go in entrare
to go out uscire
God Dio
goggles (for swimming) gli occhialini da piscina; (for skiing) gli occhiali da sci
golf il golf
golf ball la pallina da golf
golf clubs le mazze da golf
golf course il campo da golf
good (idea, food) buono(a); (film, book) bello(a); (student) bravo(a); good afternoon buongiorno; good evening buona sera; good morning buongiorno; good night buona notte
goodbye arrivederci
good-looking bello(a)
gram il grammo
grandchildren i nipoti
granddaughter la nipote
grandfather il nonno
grandmother la nonna
grandparents i nonni
grandson il nipote
grapefruit il pompelmo
grapes l'uva f
grated (cheese) grattugiato(a)
greasy grasso(a)
great (wonderful) fantastico(a)
Great Britain la Gran Bretagna
green verde
greengrocer's il fruttivendolo
grey grigio(a)
grill (part of cooker) la griglia
grilled alla griglia
grocer's il negozio di alimentari
ground floor il pianterreno; on the ground floor al pianterreno
groundsheet il telone impermeabile
group il gruppo
guarantee la garanzia
guesthouse la pensione
guide (person, book) la guida
guidebook la guida
guided tour la visita guidata
guitar la chitarra
gums (in mouth) le gengive
gym (gymnasium) la palestra
gynecologist il ginecologo, la ginecologa
H
hair i capelli
haircut il taglio di capelli
hairdresser la parrucchiera
hairdryer l'asciugacapelli m
half la metà; half of the cake mezza torta; half an hour mezz'ora
half board la mezza pensione
half fare la tariffa ridotta
ham (cooked) il prosciutto cotto; (cured) il prosciutto crudo
hamburger l'hamburger m
hand la mano f
handbag la borsetta
hand luggage il bagaglio a mano
handicapped disabile
handlebars il manubrio
handsome bello(a)
hangover i postumi della sbornia
to hang up (telephone) riattaccare
to happen succedere; What happened? Cos'è successo?
happy felice; Happy birthday! Buon compleanno!
harbour il porto
hard (not soft) duro(a); (not easy) difficile
hardly I've hardly got any money Ho pochissimi soldi
hardware shop il negozio di ferramenta
hat il cappello
to have avere; I have ... Ho...; I don't have ... Non ho...; to have to dovere; I've done it L'ho fatto; I'll have a coffee Prendo un caffè
hay fever il raffreddore da fieno
he lui
head la testa
headache il mal di testa; I have a headache Ho mal di testa
headlights i fari
headphones la cuffia
to hear sentire
heart il cuore
heart attack l'infarto m
heartburn il bruciore di stomaco
heater il termosifone
heating il riscaldamento
heavy pesante
heel il tallone
hello salve; (on telephone) pronto
helmet il casco
help! Aiuto!
to help aiutare; Can You help me? Può aiutarmi?
her la; le; lei; (belonging to her) il suo, la sua; I saw her last night L'ho vista ieri sera; I don't know her Non la conosco; I gave her the book Le ho dato il libro; with her con lei; I'm older than her Sono più vecchio di lei; her passport il suo passaporto; her room la sua camera; her suitcases la sue valigie
here qui; here is ... ecco...; Here's my passport Ecco il mio passaporto
Hi! Salve!
high alto(a)
hill la collina
hill-walking il trekking
him lui; lo; gli; I saw him last night L'ho visto ieri sera; I don't know him Non lo conosco; I gave him the letter Gli ho dato la lettera; with him con lui
hip (part of the body) il fianco; (bone) l'anca f
hire car hire l'autonoleggio m bike hire il noleggio bici; boat hire il noleggio barche; ski hire il noleggio sci
to hire noleggiare
hired car la macchina a noleggio
his il suo, la sua; his passport il suo passaporto; his room la sua camera; his suitcases le sue valigie
historic storico(a)
hobby l'hobby m
to hold tenere; (contain) contenere; Please hold Resti in linea per favore
hole il buco
holiday la vacanza; (public) la festa; on holiday in vacanza
holiday rep il/la rappresentante dell'agenzia di viaggio
home la casa; at home a casa
homeopathic omeopatico(a)
honey il miele
honeymoon la luna di miele
to hope sperare; I hope so Spero di sì; I hope not Spero di no
hors d'œuvre l'antipasto m
horse racing l'ippica f
horse-riding l'equitazione f
hospital l'ospedale m
hostel (youth hostel) l'ostello m
hot caldo(a); hot water acqua calda; I'm hot Ho caldo; It's hot (weather) Fa caldo
hotel l'albergo m
hour l'ora f half an hour mezz'ora
house la casa
housewife la casalinga
house wine il vino della casa
how (in what way) come; how much? quanto(a)?; how many? quanti(e)?; How are You? Come sta?
hungry to be hungry avere fame
hurry I'm in a hurry Ho fretta
to hurt fare male; My back hurts Mi fa male la schiena; That hurts Fa male; Have You hurt Yourself? Si è fatto male?
husband il marito
I
I io
ice il ghiaccio; ice cube il cubetto di ghiaccio; with/without ice con/senza ghiaccio
ice box (for picnics) la borsa termica; (in fridge) il freezer
ice cream il gelato
ice lolly il ghiacciolo
idea l'idea f
if se
ignition l'accensione f
ignition key la chiave dell'accensione
ill malato(a)
illness la malattia
immediately subito
immersion heater lo scaldabagno a immersione
immobilizer (on car) l'immobilizer m
to import importare
important importante
impossible impossibile
to improve migliorare
in in; in Italy in Italia; in London a Londra; in the hotel in albergo; in ten minutes tra dieci minuti; in front of davanti a
included compreso(a)
indicator (in car) la freccia
indigestion l'indigestione f
infection l'infezione f
information le informazioni
information desk il banco informazioni
inhaler (for medication) l'inalatore m
injection l'iniezione f
injured ferito(a)
injury la ferita
inn la locanda
inquiry desk il banco informazioni
insect l'insetto m
insect repellent l'insettifugo
inside dentro
instant instant coffee il caffè solubile
instead instead of invece di
insulin l'insulina f
insurance l'assicurazione f
insurance certificate il certificato di assicurazione
to insure assicurare
insured assicurato(a)
intend to intend to avere intenzione di
interesting interessante
international internazionale
internet Internet m on the internet in Internet; internet café il cybercaffè; Do you have internet access? Avete un accesso a Internet?
interpreter l'interprete m/f
interval (theatre) l'intervallo m
into in; to get into a car salire in macchina; to go into the cinema entrare al cinema; to go into town andare in città
to introduce presentare
invitation l'invito m
to invite invitare
invoice la fattura
Ireland l'Irlanda f
Irish irlandese
iron (for clothes) il ferro da stiro
to iron stirare
ironing board l'asse f da stiro
ironmonger's il negozio di ferramenta
island l'isola f
it esso, essa; lo, la
Italian italiano(a); (language) l'italiano m
Italy l'Italia f
to itch prudere
J
jack (for car) il cric
jacket la giacca; waterproof jacket il giaccone impermeabile
jam (food) la marmellata
jammed bloccato(a)
January gennaio
jar (honey, jam) il vasetto
jeans i blue jeans
jelly (dessert) la gelatina
jet ski l'acquascooter m
jeweller's la gioielleria
jewellery i gioielli
Jewish ebreo(a)
job il lavoro
to jog fare jogging
to join (club) iscriversi a
journey il viaggio
juice il succo; a carton of juice un cartone di succo di frutta
July luglio
jumper il maglione
jump leads i cavi per far partire la macchina
June giugno
just solo; just two solo due; I've just arrived Sono appena arrivato
to keep (retain) tenere
K
kettle il bollitore
key la chiave
kid (child) il bambino
kidneys i reni
kilo(gram) il chilo(grammo)
kilometre il chilometro
kind (person) gentile
kind (sort) il tipo; What kind? Di che tipo?
to kiss baciare
kitchen la cucina
knee il ginocchio
knickers le mutandine
knife il coltello
to know (facts) sapere; (person, place) conoscere; I don't know Non lo so; I don't know Rome Non conosco Roma; to know how to swim saper nuotare
L
label l'etichetta f
lace (fabric) il pizzo
ladies (toilet) la toilette (per signore)
lady la signora
lager la birra (bionda); bottled lager la birra in bottiglia; draught lager la birra alla spina
lake il lago
lamb l'agnello m
lamp la lampada
to land atterrare
landlady la padrona di casa
landlord il padrone di casa
landslide la frana
lane la stradina; (of motorway) la corsia
language la lingua
language school la scuola di lingue
laptop il computer portatile
large grande
last ultimo(a); the last bus l'ultimo autobus; last time l'ultima volta; last week la settimana scorsa; last year l'anno scorso; last night (evening) ieri sera; (night-time) ieri notte
late tardi; The train is late Il treno è in ritardo; Sorry we are late Scusi il ritardo
later più tardi
to laugh ridere
launderette la lavanderia automatica
laundry service il servizio lavanderia
lavatory la toilette
lavender la lavanda
lawyer l'avvocato m
lead (electric) il filo
leak la perdita
to leak perdere; It's leaking Perde
to learn imparare
lease (rental) l'affitto m
least at least almeno
leather la pelle
to leave (a place) partire; (to leave behind) lasciare; I left it at home L'ho lasciato a casa; What time does the train leave? Quando parte il treno?
leek il porro
left on/to the left a sinistra
left-luggage office il deposito bagagli
left-luggage locker l'armadietto m per i bagagli
leg la gamba
legal legale
leisure centre il centro ricreativo
lemon il limone
lemonade la limonata
to lend prestare; Can You lend me Your biro? Può prestarmi la biro?
lens (of camera) l'obiettivo m (contact lens) la lente a contatto
less meno; less than me meno di me; A bit less, please Un po' di meno, per favore
lesson la lezione
to let (to allow) permettere; (to hire out) affittare
letter la lettera
letterbox la cassetta delle lettere
lettuce la lattuga
licence (for car) la patente; (for fishing) la licenza
to lie down sdraiarsi
lift (elevator) l'ascensore m Can You give me a lift to the party? Può darmi un passaggio per andare alla festa?
lift pass (skiing) lo ski pass
light (not heavy) leggero(a)
light la luce; Have You got a light? Ha da accendere?
light bulb la lampadina
lighter l'accendino m
lighthouse il faro
lightning il fulmine
like (similar to) come; a city like Florence una città come Firenze
to like I like coffee Mi piace il caffè; I don't like ... Non mi piace...; I'd like to ... Vorrei...
lilo® il materassino
lime (fruit) il lime
line (row, queue) la fila; (telephone) la linea
linen il lino
lingerie la biancheria intima da donna
lips le labbra
lipstick il rossetto
to listen to ascoltare
litre il litro
little piccolo(a); a little un po' di
to live (in a place) abitare; I live in London Vivo a Londra
liver il fegato
living room il salotto
loaf la pagnotta
lobster l'astice m
local locale
lock (on door, box) la serratura
to lock chiudere a chiave
locker (for luggage) l'armadietto m
locksmith il fabbro
log (for fire) il ceppo
logbook (for car) il libretto di circolazione
lollipop il lecca lecca
London Londra; to/in London a Londra
long lungo(a); for a long time per molto tempo
long-sighted presbite
to look after prendersi cura di
to look at guardare
to look for cercare
loose (not fastened) slegato(a); It's come loose (unscrewed) Si è allentato; (detached) Si è staccato
lorry il camion
to lose perdere
lost (object) perso(a); I've lost ... Ho perso...; I'm lost Mi sono perso
lost property office l'ufficio m oggetti smarriti
lot a lot of, lots of molto(a); a lot of people molta gente; a lot of friends molti amici
lotion la lozione
loud forte
loudspeaker l'altoparlante m
lounge (in hotel) la hall; (at airport) la sala d'attesa
love l'amore m
to love amare; I love you Ti amo; I love swimming Mi piace nuotare
lovely bellissimo(a)
low basso(a)
lucky fortunato(a)
luggage i bagagli
luggage allowance il peso consentito di bagaglio
luggage rack il portabagagli
luggage tag l'etichetta f del bagaglio
luggage trolley il carrello
lump (swelling) il bernoccolo
lunch il pranzo
lung il polmone
luxury di lusso
M
mad matto(a)
magazine la rivista
maid (in hotel) la cameriera
maiden name il nome da ragazza
mail la posta; by mail per posta
main principale
main course (of meal) il piatto forte
main road la strada principale
make (brand) la marca
to make fare; made of wood fatto(a) di legno
make-up il trucco
man l'uomo m
to manage riuscire; (to be in charge of) dirigere
manager il direttore, la direttrice
manicure il/la manicure
manual manuale
many molti(e)
map (of region, country) la carta geografica; (of town) la piantina; road map la carta stradale; street map la cartina della città
March marzo
margarine la margarina
marina il porticciolo
mark (stain) la macchia
market il mercato; When is the market? Quando c'è il mercato?
marmalade la marmellata d'arance
married sposato(a); I'm married Sono sposato; Are You married? È sposato?
mass (in church) la messa
massage il massaggio
match (game) la partita
matches i fiammiferi
material (cloth) il tessuto
to matter importare; It doesn't matter Non importa; What's the matter? Cosa c'è?
mattress il materasso
May maggio
mayonnaise la maionese
mayor il sindaco
maximum il massimo
me me; mi; Can You hear me? Mi sente?; It's me Sono io; without me senza di me; with me con me
meal il pasto
to mean voler dire; What does this mean? Cosa vuol dire?
meat la carne
medicine la medicina
Mediterranean Sea il Mar Mediterraneo
medium (size) medio(a)
medium rare (meat) a media cottura
medium sweet non troppo zuccherato
to meet (by chance, arrangement) incontrare; I'm meeting her tomorrow La vedo domani; Pleased to meet You Piacere di conoscerla
meeting la riunione; (by chance) l'incontro m
melon il melone
member (of club) il socio, la socia
to mend riparare
menu il menù; set menu il menù a prezzo fisso
message il messaggio
metal il metallo
meter il contatore
metre il metro
microwave oven il forno a microonde
midday il mezzogiorno; at midday a mezzogiorno
middle il mezzo; in the middle of the street in mezzo alla strada; in the middle of May a metà maggio
middle-aged di mezz'età
midge il moscerino
midnight la mezzanotte; at midnight a mezzanotte
migraine l'emicrania f I have a migraine Ho l'emicrania
mild (weather) mite; (cheese) dolce; (curry) non piccante
milk il latte; with/without milk con/senza latte; fresh milk il latte fresco; hot milk il latte caldo; long-life milk il latte a lunga conservazione; powdered milk il latte in polvere; soya milk il latte di soia
milkshake il frappè
millimetre il millimetro
mince (meat) la carne macinata
to mind dispiacere; Do You mind if I ...? Le dispiace se...?; I don't mind Non mi dà fastidio
mineral water l'acqua f minerale
minidisc il minidisco
minimum il minimo
minute il minuto
mirror lo specchio; (in car) lo specchietto
to miss (train, flight) perdere
Miss Signorina
missing (disappeared) scomparso(a); My son is missing Mio figlio è scomparso
mistake l'errore m
to mix mescolare
mobile number numero di cellulare
mobile phone il cellulare
modem il modem
modern moderno(a)
moisturizer la crema idratante
moment momento; at the moment al momento; just a moment un momento
monastery il monastero
Monday il lunedì
money i soldi
month il mese; this month questo mese; last month il mese scorso; next month il mese prossimo
moped il motorino
more più; more expensive più caro; more than before più di prima; more than 10 più di dieci; Do You want some more tea? Vuole ancora un po' di tè?; There isn't any more Non ce n'è più
morning la mattina; in the morning di mattina; this morning stamattina; tomorrow morning domani mattina
mosque la moschea
mosquito la zanzara
mosquito repellent l'insettifugo m
most the most interesting il più interessante; most of the time per gran parte del tempo; most people gran parte della gente
mother la madre
mother-in-law la suocera
motor il motore
motorbike la moto f
motorboat il motoscafo
motorway l'autostrada f
mountain la montagna
mountain bike la mountain bike
mountaineering l'alpinismo m
mouse (animal) il topo; (computer) il mouse
mouth la bocca
to move muoversi
movie il film
Mr Signor; Mr Rossi il Signor Rossi
Mrs Signora; Mrs Bianchi la Signora Bianchi
Ms Signora
much molto; too much troppo; too much money troppi soldi; I feel much better Mi sento molto meglio
mugging lo scippo
museum il museo
mushrooms i funghi
music la musica
Muslim mussulmano(a)
mussels le cozze
must dovere
mustard la senape
my il mio, la mia; my passport il mio passaporto; my room la mia camera; my suitcases le mie valigie
N
nail (metal) il chiodo; (finger) l'unghia f
nail file la limetta per le unghie
name il nome; My name is Mi chiamo; What is Your name? Come si chiama?
nanny la bambinaia
napkin il tovagliolo
nappy il pannolino
narrow stretto(a)
nationality la nazionalità
natural naturale
nature reserve la riserva naturale
navy blue blu scuro
near vicino a; near the bank vicino alla banca; Is it near? È vicino?
necessary necessario(a)
neck il collo
necklace la collana
nectarine la nocepesca
to need avere bisogno di; I need Ho bisogno di; We need to phone Abbiamo bisogno di telefonare
needle l'ago m a needle and thread ago e filo
negative (photo) la negativa
neighbours i vicini
nephew il nipote
net the Net Internet m
never mai; I never drink wine Non bevo mai vino
new nuovo(a)
news (TV, radio) il notiziario
newsagent's il giornalaio
newspaper il giornale
news stand l'edicola f
New Year il Capodanno; Happy New Year! Buon Anno!
New Year's Eve l'ultimo m dell'anno
New Zealand la Nuova Zelanda
next prossimo(a); the next train il prossimo treno; next week la prossima settimana; next Monday lunedì prossimo; next to accanto a; What did you do next? Cos'hai fatto dopo?
nice (kind) gentile; (pretty) carino(a); (good) buono(a)
niece la nipote
night (night-time) la notte; (evening) la sera; at night di notte; per night a notte; last night (evening) ieri sera; (night-time) ieri notte; tomorrow night (evening) domani sera; (night-time) domani notte
nightclub il nightclub
no no; (without) senza; no thanks no, grazie; no smoking vietato fumare; no problem non c'è problema; no ice senza ghiaccio; no sugar senza zucchero; There's no hot water Non c'è acqua calda
nobody nessuno; Nobody came Non è venuto nessuno
noise il rumore
noisy rumoroso(a); It's very noisy C'è molto rumore
non-alcoholic analcolico(a)
none nessuno(a)
non-smoking (seat, compartment) per non-fumatori
normally normalmente
north il nord
Northern Ireland l'Irlanda f del Nord
nose il naso
nosebleed to have a nosebleed avere sangue di naso
not non; I am not going Non ci vado
note (banknote) la banconota; (written) il biglietto
note pad il bloc-notes
nothing niente; nothing else nient'altro
notice l'avviso m
November novembre m
now adesso; now and then ogni tanto
number il numero; phone number il numero di telefono; a large number of people moltissima gente
numberplate (of car) la targa
nurse l'infermiera, l'infermiere
nursery slope la pista per principianti
nuts (to eat) la frutta secca
O
to obtain ottenere
occasionally ogni tanto
occupation (work) il lavoro
October ottobre m
of di; a glass of wine un bicchiere di vino; made of cotton fatto(a) di cotone
off (light, heater) spento(a); (tap, gas) chiuso(a); (milk) andato(a) a male; I'm off Vado
office l'ufficio m
often spesso; How often do you go to the gym? Quante volte vai in palestra?
oil l'olio m
oil gauge l'indicatore m del livello dell'olio
OK! va bene!
old vecchio(a); How old are You? Quanti anni ha?; I'm ... years old Ho... anni
old-age pensioner il pensionato, la pensionata
olive l'oliva f
olive oil l'olio m d'oliva
on (TV, light, engine) acceso(a); (tap, gas) aperto(a)
on su; on the table sulla tavola; on the TV alla TV; on the 2nd floor al secondo piano; on Friday venerdì; on Fridays di venerdì; on time in orario
once una volta; once a week una volta alla settimana; at once subito
onion la cipolla
only solo; We only want to stay for one night Vogliamo fermarci solo una notte; the only day I'm free l'unico giorno in cui sono libero
open aperto(a)
to open aprire
opening hours l'orario m di apertura
opera l'opera f
operation (surgical) l'operazione f
operator (phone) il/la centralinista
opposite di fronte a; opposite the bank di fronte alla banca; quite the opposite al contrario
optician l'ottico m
or o; Tea or coffee? Tè o caffè?; I don't eat meat or fish Non mangio né carne né pesce
orange (fruit) l'arancia f (colour) arancione
orange juice il succo d'arancia
order out of order fuori servizio
to order (in restaurant) ordinare; I'd like to order Vorrei ordinare
organic biologico(a)
to organize organizzare
ornament il soprammobile
other l'altro(a); the other car l'altra macchina; the other one l'altro(a); Have you any others? Ce ne sono altri?
ought dovere
our il nostro, la nostra; our room la nostra stanza; our passports i nostri passaporti; our baggage i nostri bagagli
out (light) spento(a); She's out È fuori; He lives out of town Vive fuori città
outdoor (pool) all'aperto
outside fuori; It's outside È fuori; outside the house fuori dalla casa
oven il forno
over (on top of) sopra; over here qua; over there là; over the holidays durante le vacanze; It's over È finito
to overcharge far pagare troppo
overdone (food) troppo cotto
to owe dovere; I owe You ... Le devo...
own It's his own company È la sua ditta; on my own da solo
to own possedere
owner il proprietario, la proprietaria
oxygen l'ossigeno m
oyster l'ostrica
P
pacemaker il pacemaker
to pack (luggage) fare la valigia
package tour il viaggio organizzato
packet il pacchetto
paid pagato(a)
pain il dolore
painful doloroso(a)
painkiller l'analgesico m
to paint dipingere
painting (picture) il quadro
pair il paio
palace il palazzo
pale (person) pallido(a); pale blue celeste
pan (saucepan) la pentola; (frying pan) la padella
panniers (for bike) il cestino
panties le mutandine
pants (mens' underwear) le mutande
panty liner il proteggislip
paper la carta
paragliding il parapendio
parcel il pacco
pardon? Scusi?; I beg Your pardon? Scusi?
parents i genitori
park il parco
to park parcheggiare
parking meter il parchimetro
partner (business) il socio, la socia; (boy/girlfriend) il compagno, la compagna
party (group) la comitiva; (celebration) la festa
pass (bus, train) la tessera; (mountain) il passo
to pass passare; Can You pass me the salt, please? Mi passa il sale per favore?
passenger il passeggero, la passeggera
passport il passaporto
password la password
pasta la pasta
pastry (cake) il pasticcino
path il sentiero
patient (in hospital) il/la paziente
to pay pagare; I'd like to pay Vorrei pagare; Where do I pay? Dove devo pagare?
payment il pagamento
payphone il telefono pubblico
peach la pesca
peanut la nocciolina americana
pear la pera
peas i piselli
pedalo il pedalò
pedestrian il pedone
to peel sbucciare
peg (for clothes) la molletta; (for tent) il picchetto
pen la penna
pencil la matita
penfriend l'amico(a) di penna
pensioner il pensionato, la pensionata
people la gente
pepper (spice) il pepe; (vegetable) il peperone
per a; per day al giorno; per person a persona; per cent per cento
performance (in theatre) la rappresentazione; (in cinema) lo spettacolo
perfume il profumo
perhaps forse
perm la permanente
permit il permesso
person la persona
petrol la benzina; unleaded petrol la benzina senza piombo
petrol pump la pompa della benzina
petrol station la stazione di servizio
petrol tank il serbatoio della benzina
pharmacy la farmacia
phone il telefono; by phone per telefono
to phone telefonare; to phone somebody telefonare a qualcuno
phonebook l'elenco m telefonico
phonebox la cabina telefonica
phone call la telefonata
phonecard la scheda telefonica
photo la foto f to take a photo fare una foto
photocopy la fotocopia
to photocopy fotocopiare
to pick (choose) scegliere
pickpocket il borseggiatore
picnic il picnic; to have a picnic fare un picnic
picture (painting) il quadro; (photo) la foto f
pie (fruit) la torta; (meat) il pasticcio
piece il pezzo
pig il maiale
pill la pillola
pillow il cuscino
pilot il pilota
pin lo spillo
pineapple l'ananas m
pink rosa
pipe (drains) il tubo
pity What a pity! Che peccato!
pizza la pizza
place il luogo
place of birth il luogo di nascita
plain (yogourt) naturale
plan (of town) la piantina; What are Your plans for tonight? Che programmi ha per stasera?
plane (aircraft) l'aereo m
plaster (sticking plaster) il cerotto; (for broken limb, on wall) il gesso
plastic (made of) di plastica
plastic bag il sacchetto di plastica
plate il piatto
platform (railway) il binario; Which platform? A che binario?
play (theatre) la commedia
to play (games) giocare; (instrument) suonare
please per favore
pleased Pleased to meet You! Piacere di conoscerla!
plug (electrical) la spina; (for sink) il tappo
to plug in attaccare
plum la prugna
plumber l'idraulico m
pm del pomeriggio; at 4 pm alle quattro del pomeriggio
poached (egg) in camicia; (fish) bollito(a)
pocket la tasca
policeman il poliziotto
policewoman la donna poliziotto
police station il commissariato
polish (for shoes) il lucido
polite educato(a)
pool la piscina
poor povero(a)
popular popolare
pork la carne di maiale
porter (hotel) il portiere; (at station) il facchino
portion la porzione
possible possibile
post la posta; by post per posta
to post imbucare
postbox la buca delle lettere
postcard la cartolina
postcode il codice postale
poster il poster
postman/woman il postino, la postina
post office l'ufficio m postale
pot (for cooking) la pentola
potato la patata; baked potato la patata al forno; boiled potatoes le patate lesse; fried potatoes le patate fritte; mashed potatoes il purè di patate; roast potatoes le patate arrosto
potato salad l'insalata f di patate
pottery la terracotta
pound (money) la sterlina
powder la polvere
powdered in polvere
power (electricity) l'elettricità
pram la carrozzina
prawn il gamberetto
to prefer preferire
pregnant incinta; I'm pregnant Sono incinta
to prepare preparare
prescription la ricetta
present (gift) il regalo
president il/la presidente
pressure la pressione
pretty carino(a)
price il prezzo
price list il listino prezzi
priest il prete
print la stampa
to print stampare
printer la stampante
printout la stampa
private privato(a)
probably probabilmente
problem il problema m
programme (TV, radio) il programma m
to promise promettere
to pronounce pronunciare; How's it pronounced? Come si pronuncia?
public pubblico(a)
public holiday la festa nazionale
pudding il dessert
to pull tirare
pullover il pullover
pulse il legume
pump (for bike) la pompa; petrol pump la pompa di benzina
puncture to have a puncture forare
purple viola
purpose scopo; on purpose apposta
purse il borsellino
to push spingere
pushchair il passeggino
to put (place) mettere
Q
quality la qualità
quantity la quantità
quarter il quarto; a quarter of an hour un quarto d'ora
question la domanda; to ask a question fare una domanda
queue la coda
to queue fare la coda
quick veloce
quickly velocemente
quiet (place) tranquillo(a)
quilt la trapunta
quite (rather) abbastanza; quite good non male; quite expensive abbastanza caro(a); I'm not quite sure Non sono proprio sicuro; quite a lot un bel po'
R
racket la racchetta
radiator il radiatore
radio la radio f car radio l'autoradio f
railway la ferrovia
railway station la stazione ferroviaria
rain la pioggia
to rain it's raining piove
raincoat l'impermeabile m
rare (uncommon) raro(a); (steak) al sangue
raspberry il lampone
rat il ratto
rate (price) la tariffa
rate of exchange il tasso di cambio
rather piuttosto; rather expensive piuttosto caro(a); I'd rather stay in tonight Preferirei restare a casa stasera
raw crudo(a)
razor il rasoio
razor blades le lamette
to read leggere
ready pronto(a)
real vero(a)
really veramente
receipt la ricevuta
reception desk la reception
receptionist il/la receptionist
to recharge (battery) ricaricare
recipe la ricetta
to recognize riconoscere
to recommend raccomandare
red rosso(a)
refill il ricambio
refund il rimborso
region la regione
to register (at hotel) registrarsi
registered (letter) raccomandata
registration form il modulo d'iscrizione
relation (family) il/la parente
relationship il rapporto
to remain restare
remember ricordare; I don't remember Non mi ricordo
remote control il telecomando
rent l'affitto m
to rent (house) affittare; (car, bike) noleggiare
rental (house) l'affitto m (car, bike) il noleggio
to repair riparare
to repeat ripetere
to reply rispondere
to require richiedere
to rescue salvare
reservation la prenotazione
to reserve prenotare
reserved prenotato(a)
resident (in country) il/la residente; (in street) l'abitante m/f (in hostel) l'ospite m/f
rest (relaxation) il riposo; (remainder) il resto; the rest of the money il resto dei soldi
to rest riposarsi
restaurant il ristorante
restaurant car il vagone ristorante
retired in pensione
to return ritornare
return ticket il biglietto di andata e ritorno
to reverse fare marcia indietro; to reverse the charges fare una telefonata al carico del destinatario
reverse gear la retromarcia
rice il riso
rich (person, food) ricco(a)
to ride (on horseback) cavalcare; to ride a bike andare in bicicletta
right (correct) giusto(a); to be right avere ragione; You're right Ha ragione; That's right È giusto; on/to the right a destra
right of way la precedenza
ring (on finger) l'anello m (telephone) lo squillo
ripe maturo(a)
river il fiume
road la strada
roast arrosto(a)
roll (bread) il panino
roof il tetto
room (in house) la stanza; (in hotel) la camera; (space) lo spazio; double room la camera doppia; single room la camera singola; family room la camera per famiglia
room number il numero di camera
room service il servizio in camera
rosé wine il vino rosé
rotten (fruit etc) marcio(a)
row (line, theatre) la fila
rubber (material) la gomma; (eraser) la gomma da cancellare
rubbish la spazzatura
rucksack lo zaino
to run correre
rush hour l'ora f di punta
S
sad triste
saddle la sella
safe (for valuables) la cassaforte
safe sicuro(a); Is it safe? È sicuro?
safety belt la cintura di sicurezza
safety pin la spilla di sicurezza
to sail (sport, leisure) andare in barca
sailboard la tavola da windsurf
sailing (sport) la vela
sailing boat la barca a vela
salad l'insalata f green salad l'insalata verde; mixed salad l'insalata mista; salad dressing il condimento per l'insalata
sales (reductions) i saldi
salesman il commesso
saleswoman la commessa
sales rep il/la rappresentante
salmon il salmone
salt il sale
salt water  l'acqua f salata
salty salato(a)
same stesso; Have a good weekend! - The same to you! Buon weekend! - Anche a te!
sand la sabbia
sandals i sandali
sandwich il tramezzino; toasted sandwich il toast
sanitary towels gli assorbenti
sardines le sardine
satellite dish l'antenna f parabolica
satellite TV la televisione via satellite
Saturday il sabato
sauce la salsa
saucepan la pentola
saucer il piattino
sausage la salsiccia
savoury salato(a)
to say dire
scarf (headscarf) il foulard; (woollen) la sciarpa
scenery il paesaggio
schedule Is the flight on schedule? Il volo è in orario?
school la scuola; at school a scuola; to go to school andare a scuola; after school dopo la scuola; primary school la scuola elementare
scissors le forbici
score (of match) il punteggio; What's the score? Qual è il punteggio?; to score a goal segnare un gol
Scotland la Scozia
Scottish scozzese
screen (on computer, TV) lo schermo
screw la vite
screwdriver il cacciavite
scuba diving le immersioni subacquee
sea il mare
seafood i frutti di mare
seaside at the seaside al mare
season (of year) la stagione; high season l'alta stagione; in season di stagione
season ticket l'abbonamento m
seat (chair) la sedia; (in bus, train) il posto
seatbelt la cintura di sicurezza
second secondo(a); a second un secondo
second class la seconda classe
secretary il segretario, la segretaria
to see vedere
self-service il self-service
to sell vendere
Sellotape® lo Scotch®
to send inviare
senior citizen il pensionato, la pensionata
sensible (person) ragionevole; (shoes etc) pratico(a)
separated separato(a)
separately to pay separately pagare separatamente
September settembre m
serious (accident, problem) grave
to serve servire
service (in restaurant, shop) il servizio; (church) la funzione; Is service included? Il servizio è incluso?; service charge il servizio; service station la stazione di servizio
to service (car, washing machine) revisionare
serviette il tovagliolo
set menu il menù a prezzo fisso
several diversi(e); several times diverse volte
shade l'ombra f in the shade all'ombra
shallow basso(a)
shampoo lo shampoo
shampoo and set lo shampoo e messa in piega
to share dividere
to shave farsi la barba
shaver il rasoio
shaving cream la crema da barba
she lei
sheet (for bed) il lenzuolo
sherry lo sherry
ship la nave
shirt la camicia
shock absorber l'ammortizzatore m
shoe la scarpa
shoelaces i lacci delle scarpe
shoe polish il lucido per scarpe
shoe shop il negozio di calzature
shop il negozio
shop assistant il commesso, la commessa
shopping la spesa; to go shopping (for pleasure) fare compere; (for food) fare la spesa
shopping centre il centro commerciale
shop window la vetrina
short corto(a)
shorts i calzoncini corti
short-sighted miope
shoulder la spalla
show lo spettacolo
to show mostrare
shower (bath) la doccia; (rain) l'acquazzone m to take a shower fare la doccia
shower gel il docciaschiuma m
shrimp il gamberetto
shut (closed) chiuso(a)
to shut chiudere
shutters (outside) le imposte
shuttle service il servizio navetta
sick (ill) malato(a); I feel sick Mi sento male
side il lato
side dish il contorno
sightseeing to go sightseeing fare un giro turistico
to sign firmare
signature la firma
silk la seta
silver l'argento m
SIM card la SIM card
similar similar to simile a; They're similar Si assomigliano
since da; since 1974 dal 1974; since you're not Italian dato che non siete italiani
to sing cantare
single (unmarried) non sposato(a); (bed, room) singolo(a)
single ticket il biglietto di sola andata
sister la sorella
sister-in-law la cognata
to sit sedersi; Sit down, please! Prego, si accomodi!
site (website) il sito
size (clothes) la taglia; (shoes) il numero
to skate pattinare
skateboard lo skateboard
skis gli sci
to ski sciare
ski boots gli scarponi da sci
skiing sciare
ski instructor il maestro di sci, la maestra di sci
ski lift lo ski-lift
ski pass lo skipass
ski pole/stick il bastoncino
ski run/piste la pista
to skid scivolare
skimmed skimmed milk il latte scremato
skin la pelle
skirt la gonna
to sleep dormire; to go to sleep andare a dormire
sleeper (on train) la cuccetta
sleeping bag il sacco a pelo
sleeping car il vagone letto
sleeping pill il sonnifero
slice (bread, cake, ham) la fetta
sliced bread il pancarrè
slide (photograph) la diapositiva
slightly leggermente
slow lento(a)
slowly lentamente
small piccolo(a); smaller than più piccolo di
smell l'odore m a bad smell un cattivo odore; a nice smell un buon odore
to smile sorridere
to smoke fumare; I don't smoke Non fumo; Can I smoke? Posso fumare?
SMS message il messaggio SMS
snack lo spuntino; to have a snack fare uno spuntino
snack bar lo snack bar
snow la neve
to snow nevicare; It's snowing Nevica
snowboarding to go snowboarding andare a fare snowboard
snow chains le catene da neve
so così; It's not so expensive as the other one Non è caro come l'altro; So do I Anch'io; so much/so many ... tanto/tanti...; I think so Penso di sì; So what? E allora?
soap il sapone
soap powder (detergent) il detersivo in polvere
socket (for plug)  la presa
socks i calzini
soda water il selz
sofa bed il divano letto
soft drink la bibita
software il software
sole (shoe) la suola
some un po' di; Would You like some bread? Vuole del pane?; some books un po' di libri; some of them alcuni di loro
someone qualcuno
something qualcosa
sometimes qualche volta
son il figlio
son-in-law il genero
song la canzone
soon presto; as soon as possible il più presto possibile
sore to have a sore throat avere il mal di gola
sorry Sorry! Mi scusi!; I'm sorry! Mi dispiace!
sort il tipo
soup la minestra
sour aspro(a)
south il sud
souvenir il souvenir
space lo spazio
spade la pala
spare parts i pezzi di ricambio
spare tyre la gomma di scorta
spare wheel la ruota di scorta
sparkling sparkling water l'acqua gassata; sparkling wine il vino frizzante
to speak parlare; Do You speak English? Parla inglese?
speaker (loudspeaker) l'altoparlante m
special speciale
speciality la specialità
speedboat il motoscafo
speed limit il limite di velocità
speedometer il tachimetro
to spell How is it spelt? Come si scrive?
to spend (money) spendere
spicy piccante
spinach gli spinaci
spirits (alcohol) i liquori
spite in spite of nonostante
spoon il cucchiaio
sport lo sport
sports centre il centro sportivo
sports shop il negozio di articoli sportivi
spring (season) la primavera
square (in town) la piazza
squash lo squash
squid il calamaro
stadium lo stadio
stain la macchia
stairs le scale
stalls (in theatre) la platea
stamp il francobollo
to stand stare in piedi
start inizio; at the start of the film all'inizio del film; from the start fin dall'inizio
to start cominciare; What time does it start? A che ora comincia?; The car won't start La macchina non parte
starter (in meal) l'antipasto m
station la stazione
stationer's la cartoleria
stay il soggiorno; Enjoy your stay! Buona permanenza!
to stay (remain) rimanere; I'm staying at the... hotel Alloggio all'albergo ...; to stay the night fermarsi per la notte; We stayed in Venice for a few days Ci siamo fermati a Venezia per alcuni giorni
steak la bistecca
to steal rubare
steamed al vapore
steering wheel il volante
stepdaughter la figliastra
stepfather il patrigno
stepmother la matrigna
stepson il figliastro
stereo lo stereo
sterling la sterlina
steward (on plane) lo steward
stewardess (on plane) la hostess
sticking-plaster il cerotto
still still water acqua naturale
sting la puntura
to sting pungere
stockings le calze
stomach lo stomaco; He's got stomach-ache Ha mal di pancia
stone la pietra
stop bus stop la fermata dell'autobus
to stop fermarsi; Do You stop at the station? Ferma alla stazione?; to stop doing smettere di fare; to stop smoking smettere di fumare
store (shop) il negozio
storey il piano
straightaway subito
straight straight on diritto
strange strano(a)
straw (for drinking) la cannuccia
strawberry la fragola
street la strada
street map la piantina
strike lo sciopero; to be on strike essere in sciopero
striped a strisce
stroke (medical) l'ictus m
strong forte
stuck It's stuck È bloccato
student lo studente, la studentessa
student discount lo sconto per studenti
stuffed farcito(a)
stupid stupido(a)
subway (train) la metropolitana; (passage) il sottopassaggio
suddenly all'improvviso
suede la pelle scamosciata
sugar lo zucchero
to suggest proporre
suit (man's) l'abito m (woman's) il tailleur
suitcase la valigia
summer l'estate f
summer holidays le vacanze estive
sun il sole
to sunbathe prendere il sole
sunblock la protezione solare totale
sunburn la scottatura solare
suncream la crema solare
Sunday la domenica
sunglasses gli occhiali da sole
sunny It's sunny C'è il sole
sunroof il tettuccio apribile
sunscreen (lotion) la crema solare protettiva
sunshade l'ombrellone m
sunstroke l'insolazione f
suntan l'abbronzatura f
suntan lotion la crema abbronzante
supermarket il supermercato
supplement il supplemento
to surf fare surf; to surf the Net navigare in Internet
surfboard la tavola da surf
surname il cognome
surprise la sorpresa; What a surprise! Che sorpresa!
sweater il maglione
sweatshirt la felpa
sweet (not savoury) dolce; (dessert) il dolce; sweets le caramelle
to swim nuotare
swimming pool la piscina
swimsuit il costume da bagno
swing (for children) l'altalena f
switch l'interruttore m
to switch off spegnere
to switch on accendere
swollen gonfio(a)
T
table la tavola
tablecloth la tovaglia
table tennis il ping pong
tablet la pastiglia
tailor's la sartoria
to take prendere; (take with you) portare; (exam) dare; (subject at school) scegliere; Do You take sugar? Vuole zucchero?; I'll take You to the airport La porterò all'aeroporto; How long does it take? Quanto tempo ci vuole?; It takes about one hour Ci vuole circa un'ora; We take credit cards Accettiamo carte di credito
take away (food) il cibo da asporto
to take off (plane) decollare; (clothes) togliere
to take out tirar fuori
to talk to talk to parlare a
tall alto(a)
tampons gli assorbenti interni
tangerine il mandarino
tank petrol tank il serbatoio
tap il rubinetto
tap water l'acqua f del rubinetto
tape (video) il nastro
tart la crostata
taste il sapore
to taste assaggiare; Can I taste some? Ne posso assaggiare un po'?
taxi il taxi
taxi driver il/la tassista
taxi rank il posteggio dei taxi
tea il tè; herbal tea la tisana; lemon tea il tè al limone; tea with milk il tè al latte
teabag la bustina di tè
teapot la teiera
teaspoon il cucchiaino
to teach insegnare
teacher l'insegnante m/f
team la squadra
teenager il/la teenager
teeth i denti
telephone il telefono
to telephone telefonare; to telephone somebody telefonare a qualcuno
telephone box la cabina telefonica
telephone call la telefonata
telephone card la scheda telefonica
telephone directory l'elenco m telefonico
telephone number il numero di telefono
television la televisione
to tell dire
temperature la temperatura; to have a temperature avere la febbre
tenant l'inquilino, l'inquilina
tennis il tennis
tennis ball la pallina da tennis
tennis court il campo da tennis
tennis racket la racchetta da tennis
tent la tenda
tent peg il picchetto
terminal (airport) il terminal
terrace la terrazza
to test (to try out) provare
to text mandare un messaggino; I'll text you Ti manderò un messaggino
text message il messaggino
than di; Diana sings better than me Diana canta meglio di me; more than you più di te; more than five più di cinque
thank you grazie; Thank you very much Molte grazie
that quel, quella, quello; that cat quel gatto; that man quell'uomo; that one quello là; to think that ... pensare che...
the (sing) il, lo, la; (plural)  i, gli, le
theatre il teatro
their (sing) il/la loro; (plural) i/le loro; their car la loro macchina; their children i loro bambini
them loro; li; le; I didn't know them Non li conoscevo; I gave them some brochures Ho dato loro alcuni depliant; It's for them È per loro
there (over there) lì; there is, there are c'è, ci sono; there was c'era; there'll be ci sarà
therefore quindi
thermometer il termometro
these questi, queste; these ones questi qui
they loro
thick (not thin) spesso(a)
thief il ladro, la ladra
thin (person) magro(a)
thing la cosa
to think pensare
thirsty I'm thirsty Ho sete
this questo, questa; this cat questo gatto; this woman questa donna; this one questo(a)
those quei, quelle, quegli; those ones quelli(e)
throat la gola
through attraverso; to go through Milan attraversare Milano; a through train un treno diretto; from May through to September da maggio a settembre
Thursday il giovedì
ticket il biglietto; a single ticket un biglietto di (sola) andata; a return ticket un biglietto di andata e ritorno; a book of tickets un blocchetto di biglietti
ticket collector il controllore
ticket office la biglietteria
tide (sea) la marea; low tide la bassa marea; high tide l'alta marea
tidy ordinato(a)
tie la cravatta
tight (fitting) stretto(a)
tights i collant; (woollen) la calzamaglia
till (cash desk) la cassa
till (until) fino a; till 2 o'clock fino alle due
time il tempo; this time questa volta; What time is it? Che ore sono?; on time in orario
timetable l'orario m
tin (can) la scatola
tin-opener l'apriscatole m
tip (to waiter) la mancia
tipped (cigarette) con il filtro
tired stanco(a)
tissues i fazzoletti di carta
to a; (with name of country) in; to London a Londra; to Italy in Italia; to the airport all'aeroporto; from nine o'clock to three dalle dieci alle tre; something to drink qualcosa da bere
toast il pane tostato
tobacconist's il tabaccaio
today oggi
toe il dito del piede
together insieme
toilet la toilette
toilet paper la carta igienica
toiletries gli articoli da toletta
toll (motorway) il pedaggio
tomato il pomodoro; tinned tomatoes i pelati
tomato soup la zuppa di pomodoro
tomorrow domani; tomorrow morning domani mattina; tomorrow afternoon domani pomeriggio; tomorrow evening domani sera
tongue la lingua
tonic water l'acqua f tonica
tonight (evening) stasera; (night-time) stanotte
too (also) anche; (excessively) troppo; My sister came too È venuta anche mia sorella; The water's too hot L'acqua è troppo calda; too late troppo tardi; too much troppo(a); too much noise troppo rumore; too many troppi(e); too many people troppa gente
tooth il dente
toothache il mal di denti
toothbrush lo spazzolino da denti
toothpaste il dentifricio
toothpick lo stuzzicadenti
top the top floor l'ultimo piano m
top (of bottle, pen) il tappo; (of pyjamas, bikini) la parte di sopra; (of hill, mountain) la cima; on top of sopra di
total (amount) il totale
to touch toccare
tough (meat) duro(a)
tour (trip) il giro; (of museum) la visita; guided tour la visita guidata
tour guide la guida turistica
tour operator l'operatore m turistico
tourist il/la turista
tourist office l'ufficio m turistico
tourist ticket il biglietto turistico
towel l'asciugamano m
tower la torre
town la città; town centre il centro città; town plan la piantina
toy il giocattolo
toyshop il negozio di giocattoli
traffic il traffico
traffic jam l'ingorgo m
traffic lights il semaforo
traffic warden il vigile
train il treno; by train in treno; the next train il prossimo treno; the first train il primo treno; the last train l'ultimo treno
trainers le scarpe da ginnastica
tranquillizer il tranquillante
to translate tradurre
to travel viaggiare
travel agent's l'agenzia f di viaggi
travel guide la guida
travel insurance l'assicurazione f di viaggi
travel sickness (in car) il mal m d'auto (on ship) il mal m di mare
traveller's cheque i traveller's (cheque)
tray il vassoio
treatment la cura
tree l'albero m
trip la gita
trolley (for luggage, shopping) il carrello
trousers i pantaloni
truck il camion
true vero(a)
trunk (luggage) il baule
trunks swimming trunks i calzoncini da bagno
to try provare
to try on (clothes, shoes) provare
t-shirt la maglietta
Tuesday il martedì
tuna il tonno
to turn girare
to turn off (light, cooker, TV) spegnere; (tap) chiudere
to turn on (light, cooker, TV) accendere; (tap) aprire
turquoise (colour) turchese
twice due volte; twice a week due volte alla settimana
twin-bedded room camera a due letti
twins i gemelli, le gemelle
tyre la gomma
tyre pressure la pressione delle gomme
U
ugly brutto(a)
ulcer l'ulcera f mouth ulcer l'afta f
umbrella l'ombrello m
uncle lo zio
uncomfortable scomodo(a)
under sotto; children under 10 i bambini sotto i dieci anni
undercooked poco cotto(a)
underground la metropolitana
underpants (man's) le mutande
to understand capire; I don't understand No capisco; Do You understand? Capisce?
underwear la biancheria intima
unfortunately purtroppo
United Kingdom il Regno Unito
United States gli Stati Uniti
university l'università f
unleaded petrol la benzina senza piombo
unlikely improbabile
to unlock aprire
to unpack disfare le valigie
unpleasant sgradevole
up su; up here quassù; up there lassù; What's up? Cosa succede?; up to 50 fino a 50; up to now fino adesso
upstairs di sopra; the people upstairs gli inquilini del piano di sopra
urgent urgente
us ci; noi; Can You help us? Ci aiuta?; with us con noi
USA gli USA
to use usare
useful utile
usual solito(a)
usually di solito
V
vacancy (in hotel) la camera libera
vacant libero(a)
vacation la vacanza
vacuum cleaner l'aspirapolvere m
valid valido(a)
valuable di valore
value il valore
VAT l'IVA f
veal la carne di vitello
vegan vegano(a)
vegetables le verdure
vegetarian vegetariano(a); I'm vegetarian Sono vegetariano
very molto; very much moltissimo; I like it very much Mi piace moltissimo
vest la canottiera
via via
to video (from TV) registrare su videocassetta
video (machine) il video; (cassette) la videocassetta
video camera la videocamera
video recorder il videoregistratore
view la vista
village il paese
vinegar l'aceto m
vineyard la vigna
virus il virus
visa il visto
visit la visita
to visit visitare
visiting hours l'orario m delle visite
visitor il visitatore, la visitatrice
voicemail il servizio di messaggeria vocale
voucher il buono
W
waist la vita
to wait for aspettare
waiter il cameriere
waiting room la sala d'aspetto
waitress la cameriera
to wake up svegliarsi
Wales il Galles
walk la passeggiata; to go for a walk andare a fare una passeggiata
to walk passeggiare; (go on foot) andare a piedi
walking boots gli scarponcini
walking stick il bastone
wall il muro
wallet il portafoglio
to want volere
ward (hospital) il reparto
wardrobe l'armadio m
warehouse il magazzino
warm caldo(a); It's warm outside Fa caldo fuori
to warm up (milk, food) riscaldare
to wash lavare
wash and blow dry lo shampoo e messa in piega
washing machine la lavatrice
washing powder il detersivo in polvere
washing-up bowl la bacinella
washing-up liquid il detersivo per i piatti
wasp la vespa
waste bin il bidone della spazzatura
watch l'orologio m
to watch (look at) guardare
water l'acqua f bottled water l'acqua in bottiglia; cold water l'acqua fredda; drinking water l'acqua potabile; hot water l'acqua calda; sparkling water l'acqua gassata; still water l'acqua naturale
water heater lo scaldabagno
watermelon l'anguria f
to waterski fare sci d'acqua
watersports gli sport acquatici
waterwings i braccioli salvagente
waves (on sea) le onde
way in l'entrata f
way out l'uscita f
we noi
weak (coffee, tea) leggero(a); (person) debole
to wear portare
weather il tempo
weather forecast le previsioni del tempo
web (internet) il web
website il sito web
wedding il matrimonio
wedding present il regalo di matrimonio
Wednesday il mercoledì
week la settimana; last week la settimana scorsa; next week la prossima settimana; per week alla settimana; this week questa settimana; during the week durante la settimana
weekday il giorno feriale
weekend il fine settimana; next weekend il prossimo fine settimana; this weekend questo fine settimana
to weigh pesare
weight il peso
Welcome! Benvenuto!
well bene; I'm very well Sto molto bene; He's not well Non sta bene
well done (steak) ben cotto(a)
Welsh gallese
west l'ovest m
wet bagnato(a); wet weather brutto tempo
wetsuit la muta
what? cosa?; What colour is it? Di che colore è?; What is it? Cos'è?; I saw what happened Ho visto cosa è successo; Tell me what you did Dimmi cos'hai fatto
wheel la ruota
wheelchair la sedia a rotelle
when? quando?
where? dove?
whether se; I don't know whether to go or not Non so se andarci o no
which? quale; which one? quale?; which ones? quali?
while mentre; in a while fra un po'; (very soon) fra poco
whisky il whisky
white bianco(a)
who? chi?
whole tutto
wholemeal bread il pane integrale
whose Whose is it? Di chi è?
why? perché?
wide largo(a)
widow la vedova
widower il vedovo
wife la moglie
wild (animal) selvatico(a)
to win vincere
window la finestra; (in car, train) il finestrino; shop window la vetrina
windscreen il parabrezza m
windscreen wipers il tergicristallo
to windsurf fare windsurf
windy It's windy C'è vento
wine il vino; dry wine il vino secco; house wine il vino della casa; red wine il vino rosso; rosé wine il vino rosé; sparkling wine il vino frizzante; white wine il vino bianco; wine list la lista dei vini
wing mirror lo specchietto laterale
winter l'inverno m
wireless senza fili
with con; with ice con ghiaccio; with milk con il latte
without senza; without ice senza ghiaccio; without milk senza latte
woman la donna
wonderful meraviglioso(a)
wood (material) il legno
wooden di legno
wool la lana
woollen di lana
word la parola
work il lavoro; at work al lavoro
to work (person) lavorare; (machine, car) funzionare; It doesn't work Non funziona
world il mondo
worried preoccupato(a)
worse peggio
worth It's worth ... Vale...
to wrap (parcel) incartare
wrapping paper la carta da regalo
wrist il polso
to write scrivere; Please write it down Lo scriva per favore
wrong sbagliato(a); What's wrong? Cosa c'è che non va?
X
X-ray la radiografia
Y
yacht lo yacht
year l'anno m a year ago un anno fa; this year quest'anno; next year l'anno prossimo; last year l'anno scorso
yearly annualmente
yellow giallo(a)
yes sì; Yes please Sì, grazie
yesterday ieri; yesterday morning ieri mattina
yet ancora; not yet non ancora
yoghurt lo yogurt; plain yoghurt lo yogurt naturale
yolk il tuorlo
you (familiar) tu; (polite) lei; (plural) voi
young giovane
your (familiar sing) il tuo, la tua; (polite sing) il suo, la sua; (familiar plural) il vostro, la vostra
youth hostel l'ostello
Z
zip la cerniera lampo
zoo lo zoo
zoom lens lo zoom
zucchini la zucchina




