



Confessions of a Fitness ModelThe Ugly Truth about the New Standard for BeautyWritten by Madelyn MoonMaddyMoon.com 







Copyright © 2015 Madelyn MoonThis e-Book is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. This e-Book may not be re-sold or given away to other people. If you would like to share this book with another person, please purchase an additional copy for each recipient. If you're reading this book and did not purchase it, or it was not purchased for your use only, then please return to Amazon.com and purchase your own copy. Thank you for respecting the hard work of this author.Publishing Services Provided byArchangel Ink 







ForewordBy Matt Stonewww.180degreehealth.comResolve. Fitness. Health. Beauty. Sexiness. Discipline. Drive. That's but a short list of qualities and characteristics needed for someone to become a successful fitness competitor. It reads like a list of English words with the most positive connotation. It's no wonder that those who become successful fitness competitors and models are indeed held so high up on a pedestal for the rest of us mortals to worship. But should we worship them? Are fitness models really elite specimens who represent the best of humankind? And are the extreme feats of discipline with bland, unsatisfying food and multiple grueling workouts per day, something to be marveled at and glorified? Or is this really just a greater manifestation of a society that is sick—mentally, emotionally, and physically? I'll let you come to your own conclusions on that, but I will say I find it quite odd—kind of scary, really—that it has become so fashionable of late to glorify self-denial. From Gandhi to the latest ultramarathon winner, it seems we can't give enough praise to those who suffer voluntarily. And while vanity and the finest physical specimens of any species, humans included, have always been celebrated, we've become fixated on it recently beyond the threshold of normalcy. Or maybe I spend too much time on the internet? Don't we all, though. We've also reached new heights of fixation on food and fitness in recent times. Who would have thought a few decades ago that some of the most popular television shows on earth would be about people losing weight? Or that the most popular male comedian (Jim Gaffigan) and the most popular female comedian (Amy Schumer) would be building their acts around their physical appearance and food? Gaffigan has a bestselling book and comedy tour called Dad is Fat. Just recently Amy Schumer's interview on Ellen is being hailed as "the best ever." She talked mostly about her slightly fat arms and how she engulfs popcorn. I'm telling you. We, as a society, are becoming downright obsessed with food, fitness, and physique. Hey, don't get the idea that I'm criticizing you personally if you're particularly fixated on these things. I've been as caught up in it as just about anyone on earth, and it started when I was only six years old. In fact, when asked at my kindergarten graduation what I wanted to be when I grew up, I proudly belted out my wish to become a "black boxer." It wasn't that the sport was so entertaining to me. I greatly preferred to watch other sports. It was all about getting "bumps in my stomach." To look like one of those sweaty, glistening, ripped black guys under the lights in the ring—that's what I wanted more than anything in the world as just a kid! I don't profess to have the cure to this problem either. The first step in fixing it is developing some awareness that we are all nuts. I'll happily confess to this characteristic when it comes to food, fitness, and physique. I've tried every crazy diet on earth, am a human encyclopedia of useless nutritional information, and I still can't break the addiction of watching shirtless YouTubers talking about what they eat and how they train. This insanity has taken quite a toll on my body and mind over the years. But you think I have it bad? Fitness competitors and models are the ones truly caught in this obsession's crosshairs, and what they put themselves through comes at a much higher expense than the public realizes. I'll never forget the first time I met a fitness competitor. She showed me pictures of herself on stage, but at the time, she had rolls of fat with stretch marks hanging over the waistline of her pants, and her hair had thinned out enough to see the top of her scalp. She couldn't have been more than 32-33 years old tops. And she spoke repetitively like a crazy person about how she needed to really get back into shape. To get back on her supplements. To follow the diet that her trainer had put her on back in the day—an all-almond diet. Yikes. It surprised me quite a bit to later learn that problems with weight gain, falling hair, and obsessive preoccupation with body image was not rare, but par for the course amongst many fitness competitors. It shouldn't have surprised me. I did reach the point of having "bumps in my stomach" once, only to become obsessive about food, spend over an hour per day just looking at myself in the mirror, lose my libido amongst other problems, balloon back up in just a couple of weeks after getting down to around 5 percent body fat, and start waking up to a pillow covered in my own lost hair. You'll be surprised, too, as you read a very personal, in-depth revelation of the fitness underbelly by Maddy Moon. This is very courageous of her to write. In fact, I was the one that originally encouraged her to write this book with this very title, but she didn't want to. It's not easy to revisit past traumatic experiences. But she quickly realized that this story needs to be told, all in one place, and told vividly and personally. That's what you're about to get as you jump into her work, which is her finest yet. We all owe her a debt of gratitude—aspiring fitness models, fitness voyeurs like myself, and armchair observers alike—for having written it so passionately and purposefully. No matter who you are, the life of a fitness model—what it's really like—is an interesting world to be taken into. Thank goodness Maddy can take us all there without us having to go through the tightly scheduled diet with fewer foods in it than most of us have in a single meal! Spray tans don't sound very fun either. Thank you so much, Maddy, for candidly sharing your story. Many will be entertained. Many will be informed. Many will be prevented from doing great harm to themselves. Many will begin to unravel the tightly knit scarf of body and food obsession that they currently have wrapped around their throats. We all thank you for what you've done and what you continue to do, which is help lead the world, one person at a time, towards the more meaningful and healthy existence that lies beyond the world of physique obsession.  







Table of ContentsForewordChapter OneChapter TwoChapter ThreeChapter FourChapter FiveChapter SixChapter SevenChapter EightChapter NineChapter TenChapter ElevenChapter TwelveChapter ThirteenChapter FourteenThe Next StepShare the LoveAbout the Author 







Chapter Oneback to top"What will you have?" asked the Hopdoddy Burger Bar cashier standing over the greasy counter. I could practically feel her judgmental eyes stripping me down, sequin by sequin, down to the last thread of my bikini suit.I mean, I was painted orange. This was the moment I had been waiting for, the moment when I could finally have the food I had been avoiding for the past eighteen weeks. After waiting in line at the burger joint for fifteen minutes, I was on the verge of a nervous breakdown.Is it really over?My eighteen weeks of pure torture all led up to this?"I'll have a cheeseburger, fries, and a salted caramel milkshake," I said, feeling embarrassed. Who eats that much?But I deserve it! I thought to myself.I have been starving for months and now it's my time to eat what I want. I tried to hide my nerves from my family. My mom and sister were talking about how much fun they had at my first fitness competition, while I was nervously glancing left to right to see who may have heard me order my meal.How many calories are in this? What's my body going to look like when I wake up?I looked down to my stomach, nervously thinking about the damage I was going to do to my abs. After months of eating nothing but chicken, egg whites, and oatmeal, I knew this was heading down disaster road. I had finally obtained the abs of my dreams, and now I was going to ruin it all!My mom flashed me a smile and squeezed my hand, knowing what was going on in my head."This is going to be delicious, baby," she said. I already felt bloated from the day's stress, as well as the amount of fiber I had to consume leading up to the event to get everything out of my system. Sucking in with all my might, I gave myself a fleeting moment of satisfaction as I made myself feel skinny. After placing our orders, we sat down at a booth. "Sweetie, you did such a great job today. You really shined!" my mom said."I didn't get first place," I said back."Well, that's okay—it was your first competition!" Mom said sympathetically."I didn't get first place, though! I worked so hard!" I said, feeling frustratingly misunderstood."One milkshake?" said the Hopdoddy waiter, bringing over a salted caramel glass of delicious cold glory.I raised my hand and stared down the sugary bliss I was about to consume. My mom gave me two thumbs up, and I dove in. Within three minutes, the entire milkshake was gone. Instantly, my stomach ballooned up to the size of a basketball. I rested my head on the back of the booth, placed my hands across my stomach, and let out a long exuberant "ahhhh." Though I was temporarily lost in a moment of milkshake magnificence, I was quickly brought back to planet earth when the waitress came over and politely placed three burgers on our table.Whoa whoa whoa, wait, BURGERS. I must have blacked out while drinking my shake because how else could I reason the fact that I drank the entire thing?I came in here with a plan. A little bit of a shake, a little bit of the fries, a little bit of the burger—plenty of leftovers to take home and portion out.Oh, screw it! I thought, as I dove face first into a sea of fries and cheesy greasy scrumptiousness. Gurgle, gurgle, gurgle.I was three-quarters of the way through my burger and fries when I could hear—literally hear—the aftermath of my gorge session.I was overflowing.But I didn't want to stop! No, I can't stop! I'm not a quitter. I continued to push on through until every single last bite had its shining moment in the spotlight, or in my stomach, more like. I looked down at my stomach. It was now the size of the BOSU ball I spent hours doing ab crunches on. I rested my head back on the booth, feeling guilty for not sticking to my plan. But at the same time, I felt that I deserved to gorge after starving for eighteen weeks. I needed to feel full for once."How do you feel?" my mom asked sympathetically, looking down at my hunched up body."Ughhhhhh. Mom, I have to go home. NOW!" I said.Everything hurt. My stomach was tightening up in a knot, my eyes were closing, my entire body felt hot, my mind was racing, and I thought at any minute I was going to puke.Kissing my mom and sister goodbye, I frantically ran to my car, hoping I'd make it home before my body started to expel the guilt-inducing treats I had just consumed.Is this really how I'm supposed to feel? Stuffed, miserable, and just as unsatisfied as I was before?I'd thought that after my first competition, I would feel incredible. I thought I would feel invincible.I was told all of the anguish, pain, blood, tears, and sweat would be worth it. So why did I feel so . . . empty?Pulling into my parking spot, I sprinted up the stairs. Throwing my gym bag, competition shoes, and meal cooler on my bed, I sprinted to the bathroom. I was sick. Very, very sick.More than just sick to my stomach, though, I felt sick in the head. Who starves themselves for months at a time to compete in a fitness competition, gets angry for not placing first, and then gorges themselves to the point of getting sick? Shouldn't I be celebrating right now? Ding.Reaching for my phone, I saw I had a text from my boyfriend."Hey, you, congrats on tonight! Want to go out and celebrate? It's time to finally have a drink! I'm out with the guys."Oh no, oh no no no no. No more calories, no more food, no more. I can't fit a single more ounce into my body. Why was I putting myself through this torture? My body had been nothing but trouble since I became obsessed with making it lean. One of the problems was that it was never lean enough. Even when I reached my temporary goal, I just made a new one. My standards were literally impossible to reach.The toughest thing to swallow was the fact that my body was also the one thing keeping me from having any fun at all.Here I was on a Saturday night, sick to my stomach, puking up a salty caramel milkshake, a burger, and fries, while my boyfriend was out with other people, drinking martinis and socializing like a normal human being. Struggling to make it to my bed, I texted him back, "Thanks, babe. In for the night. Call you tomorrow."As I washed off my competition tan, I stood in the shower with my protruding stomach, feeling like one of those hungry round-belly babies. I tried to hunch over so that I at least felt skinnier. Nope, that didn't work. Maybe if I bend this way. Nope that didn't work either.I couldn't take it anymore.The tears started to rush down my face. It was the end of the world! Why am I so fat? Why did I eat so much? Can I start my competition diet tomorrow again and make everything better?I couldn't help but beat myself down for "letting go" and eating that Hopdoddy meal. I know, I know, I should have felt proud and happy and delighted for finishing my first competition, but what would my friends think if they saw my belly right now?What would my boyfriend think if he popped over and saw what I looked like?I'M SO GROSS.Watching the orange tan wash down the drain, I made a commitment to myself to start another diet tomorrow morning. Feeling calmer due to the pact I had made with myself, I threw on my nightgown and crawled into bed, feeling sad because my tan was all gone. 







Chapter Twoback to topGrowing up, I was surrounded by tall, blonde-haired, blue-eyed family members.I have gorgeous grandparents and they all had gorgeous babies. Those babies had some bombshells themselves.Many of our family gatherings would include picture sessions where we had to pose, review the photo, try again, review the photo, and try again, until we got a shot everyone could agree on.Being one of the youngest in the family during this time, I remember feeling a little out of place as a buck-toothed fourth grader with octagon-shaped glasses and T-shirts with kittens on them. Paired with my sandals and thick denim board shorts, I knew that I had a long way to go before I could be included as just "one of the girls" alongside my cousins, aunts, and sisters.While we posed for the photo, a male counterpart would take the shot and yell something like, "You girls are all legs! Well, not you, Maddy, not yet at least. Just a few more years!"While this was true, I don't recall a time when we retook the photo years later when I had finally "grown" those legs. I never received that compliment that I wanted so badly as an awkward fourth grader.That's one of those weird things that stick with you as a kid . . . where you start searching for that validation through a vehicle like a photo, yet nobody knows what the heck is going on in your head or else they'd probably let you know—yes, you obviously grew up and have "legs" now. But even I didn't understand my own desires yet.As I got a little older, things just got weirder for me. To be more specific, I got weirder.I had a wide range of interests. I became obsessed with Star Wars, Lord of the Rings, dragons, video games, color-coordinating everything under the sun, and being a clarinet rock star.More than anything, I was determined to be the biggest Lord of the Rings fan that ever existed. I had all the action figures, fake ears, costumes, elfish dictionaries, calendars, bookmarks, video games, comic books, and even the recipe for Lothlórien-renowned lembas bread. My high school boyfriend even asked me in Elvish to be his girlfriend.I died, it was so cute.Surprisingly, I wouldn't say that I had a difficult time fitting in with my peers, necessarily, but I had unique interests that many other girls my age weren't really on board with. Looking back on these days, I have a hint of admiration for my younger self. She was weird and didn't care. She wasn't trying to look, act, or be anybody other than herself. She was confident in her interests and comfortable in her skin.Heck, my body was really just a vehicle for getting to the movies to watch the latest fantasy film. I had a few body image concerns deep, deep down, but they didn't come to rise until much later.These fantasy phases came and went for a while, but sometime during my high school career, I shifted my interest from orcs and hobbits to dieting, nutrition, and my body.I go over much of my high school and college experiences in my first book, The Perfection Myth, so if you're interested in reading more about those body image and dieting-obsessed days, check that out here. I changed forever the moment I realized fitness modeling was within my grasp. It's within everybody's grasp, really. With the right diet strategies, anyone can manipulate their body. I just didn't realize how deceiving the outcome is."Maddy, you have a package," said my roommate Cameryn. "YAY! It's my protein powder. I hear this stuff gives you big results!" I said, bouncing into the room.Cameryn walked into her room across the hall and shut the door with a very clear air of disinterest.Hmph, none for you then!Grabbing a knife, I broke open the box and retrieved my tube of protein, seeing a book at the bottom of the box.Bypassing the protein, I went straight for the book that had an almost-naked model flexing on the cover. Dang, this protein made her look like that?!Wowzers, these people are HOT! Abs on abs on abs. Flipping through the pages, I read about macro timing, calorie counting, the importance of protein and green veggies, fitness competitions, and weight-loss success stories. After an hour of note taking and highlighting, I had myself a structured game plan.I realized that my diet must be the reason I wasn't looking the way these models were. I was a protein-lacking vegetarian who spent hours on the treadmill focusing on calories. According to all of these hunks, I shouldn't be so consumed with burning calories but instead should follow a mathematical approach where I automatically consumed fewer calories than I burned. I could preplan all of this and do it day in and day out. I decided right there and then, I was going to be a fitness competitor.Let's do this.I bought into fitness advertisements easily. And I bought into them hard.Before I received that package, I was eating a low-calorie diet—sometimes just a bag of chips and a sandwich, hoping it would make my body look like the popular thin and fragile models in the magazine; after flipping through the pages of that book, I realized I should actually be eating a perfectly macro-dense meal plan, and instead look like a toned-up fitness model. Who knew I could eat meat, peanut butter, and whey protein powder daily and still look thin?! (Putting on a sports bra automatically validated the fitness-aspect.) While it's great that I finally started eating nutrient-dense foods, my all-or-nothing attitude was throwing me into an unhealthy cycle time and time again.I invested chunks of my valuable time and energy researching the success stories of these random individuals, dissecting what they did to lose weight and finally find so much happiness and satisfaction.Most of it came down to dieting to my sweet, sweet surprise. I thrived off rules, restrictions, and "off-limit" foods. Reading that chapter was like inserting an IV right into my arm; thinking of new food rules to add to my healthy girl persona was an instant high.My credibility as the "fit girl" always seemed to skyrocket in the eyes of my peers as I got leaner and set the bar higher in regards to my dietary restrictions. That's all I really wanted when it came down to it. Recognition, validation, and affirmation.For the next few months, I began to practice the new "lifestyle" habits I learned in the book. Every Sunday, I would bulk-cook chicken breast, steam a huge batch of broccoli, cook a massive pot of brown rice and protein pancakes, and even go so far as to separate my protein powder into single baggies with oatmeal so they'd be ready for instant cooking.I documented my journey on social media and shared my lifestyle tips with my followers on my first fitness blog, MoonFitness. Before I knew it, people were asking me how to bulk prep and train like a "professional."Even though I was miserable from the restrictions I was putting on myself, I couldn't help but feel reignited with validation every time somebody asked me for help. They want advice from me! Little ole me! I would think to myself.On the surface, I enjoyed my strict routine because I loved the false feeling of control. The happiness was temporary and conditional at best, but regardless, I was feeling fuelled and purpose-driven from my actions. But very soon things got out of control. 







Chapter Threeback to topIn the spring of 2012, I decided that I was having a difficult time balancing fun with fitness, and needed to choose one side or the other.It's not necessarily a bad thing that I chose fitness over fun because my definition of fun (being a junior at the University of Texas at Austin) wasn't that healthy either. Let's just say it included one too many drinks on Sixth Street on the weekends.I chose fitness.I adopted the entire lifestyle change, including• Hiring my first rip-off diet coach• In bed by 9 p.m. every night• No more wonderful cocktails or drinks• No more of those delicious foods that came in packages (clean eating all day, every day, obvi)• No more parties, period• No more skipping workouts• No more dates / dinners out ('cause why have any more fun, while we're at it?)• Progress pictures of my body weekly (just to make sure I still had one)• Morning "ab checks"• Body fat percentage updates with my coach• A gallon of water per day (meaning, I was peeing every 30 minutes)• Adopting the "no excuses" mind-set (Pneumonia? Suck it up, punk!)None of these things above are inherently good or bad, but in my case they were not helpful to my life. My fitness competition goal was one of the most destructive goals I had ever had in my entire life, physically, emotionally, mentally, and spiritually.In 2013, I went to my local 24 Hour Fitness Club and was referred to Tanner, a former fitness competitor who said he would be happy to write my meal plan throughout the entire competition prep for a grand total of $500. This would not include workouts, only updated meal plans and body fat checks.And so it began.Tanner wrote me a diet plan that consisted of a total of seven different foods. He told me to stay on the meal plan, no matter what, or else I wouldn't place well.The show was eighteen weeks away. Plenty of time to lose body fat, but my mind-set was so rigid, anxious, and nervous, that I thought that even an eighteen-week prep wasn't enough time to lose the body fat I needed to lose.I'll be the first to admit, I had severe body dysmorphia. My anxiety about "not losing enough" was overwhelming for little to no reason. I was healthier before I became invested in fitness than when I knew everything about it.Once I started to read more about fitness competitions and modeling I became less healthy. My body dysmorphia increased, and I thought I was overweight when I was actually underweight. These were a few of the warning signs I ignored at the beginning of my journey.Official "training" started the day after I received my meal plan. Day after day, I repeated the same exact schedule. Gym, eat, class, eat, gym, class, sleep, repeat. It was an awful cycle that I found myself comfortable with.Having the safety of a scheduled routine inherently cultivated a fear of missing any of those strict mealtimes. Tanner, like most personal trainers and health gurus, told me that I couldn't miss eating every three hours or my metabolism would slow down. Most of my meals were composed of oatmeal, whey protein powder, casein powder, broccoli, chicken, egg whites and one blessed tablespoon of peanut butter per day for my "healthy fat" allotment. I was so determined to put the first bite of my mini meal in my mouth at those exact times every single day that I would pack my food in Tupperware containers, go to class, and eat them mid-class if I had to.I would make smoothies with oatmeal, water, and protein powder, shove it in my backpack, and take it to class, even though I couldn't drink it for another three hours.That oh-so-warm shake would dwell in the humid Texas heat, sitting in my backpack, waiting to be consumed until the exact moment I was allowed to have it.Even if my class ended at 1:00 and I could
walk home to my apartment and make a fresh meal, I would still have it in my backpack ready to go, because if I waited until I returned home, it would be fifteen minutes after "mealtime."No matter if it were a warm smoothie or a Tupperware container filled with broccoli and chicken, I would eat it when the meal plan told me to—but not before snapping a photo and sharing my dedication with my social media followers, of course.No excuses! I would caption it. People eat six or eight small meals a day instead of three square meals because somewhere, in some magazine, they read it improves metabolism. I know quite a few fitness models that truly believe that if they don't stick to this ritual they'll gain
body fat. On the opposite end of the spectrum, fasting is now a thing too. Intermittent fasting advocates say that you should fast the majority of the day and only eat within a 6-8 hour time span if you really want to lose weight and improve your health.There are proven benefits to both of these diets, but there are also proven disadvantages. When I was eating every few hours, six times a day, I had to prepare my meals far in advance so that I would have enough time to cook all of them and proportion them into their containers.Sometimes I would have to wake up at five in morning to make sure that all of my chicken, rice, oatmeal, peanut butter, and greens were ready to go. After a year of eating like this, I lost my period, my energy diminished, I felt nauseated all the time, and I was anxious about missing a meal every time that I had to. A "fast" metabolism isn't worth all of those trade-offs.And truthfully, my metabolism was not fast. My diet was so extreme that my metabolism slowed down to preserve energy. More on that one later.With intermittent fasting, the same can happen. I know many women that have lost their periods from eating in such a small time frame. Binging is almost inevitable when you've been fasting for so long that your body becomes used to binging whenever food is around.Marketing portrays both of these diets as the answer to your problems, but it is only what you make of it. If something is truly working for you and your schedule, then maybe it's a good fit for you. But if you feel a tugging urge to eat at a certain hour and you can't because of your diet, then maybe you're fighting your body's natural intuition without even realizing it. "You ready?" he asked, as we drove down the dirt road to the paddleboard pick-up location."Yes, uh-huh," I answered, though my mind was obviously elsewhere.I was on a date with a blond-haired, blue-eyed trainer I had just met the week before when I was doing my morning fasted stair sprints.He seemed like a nice guy, but I wasn't quite convinced that he was worth missing a meal for. In an effort to stay on track as I felt this date out, I packed a protein shake in my purse so that I could sneak off and drink it at the appropriate hour.I also had a small Tupperware in my bag that had chicken and rice in it, just in case we were together for a really long time.That's right, I had chicken, rice, and a protein shake in my purse. Don't most girls have lipstick, notebooks, and lotion in there?I was prepping for my first fitness competition and my laser focus looked like determination to outsiders, but deep down it felt more like prison. I really wanted to be present for this date, but if I slipped up on my meals, I knew that the guilt would be too much for me to endure. It just wasn't worth it.Plus, if I missed a meal, I probably wouldn't win first place once the competition rolled around—even if it was still six weeks away.Well, that's what my coach told me."Pack your meals in your bag. Even if you don't have a cooler to keep them cold, put them in your purse. Don't miss your meal times, whatever you do," he said over the phone.The words of my coach were law to me. And I was not the exception.The blue-eyed trainer, John, was taking me to go paddle boarding. It was going to be a hot Texas day, but I was excited to get out on the water for a little bit, especially since this could be considered an arm workout. I was always looking for opportunities to burn calories.I wasn't really sure how my protein shake was going to do in my purse sitting on the hot dock for a few hours, but that was the only factor of my control. I knew I would drink it anyway, regardless of its temperature, so I didn't worry too much about that. I thought to myself, This will just make for a great story of my willpower later on when I tell my Twitter followers!John and I set out on our paddleboards, and conversed while racing down the river. We were having a great time talking about life, hobbies, favorite music—you know, the usual first date stuff—until he asked me the dreaded question."Are you hungry?"Agh no no no! I thought to myself."Mmmmm, I'm not really supposed to eat meals outside of my meal plan," I said, hoping he would drop it."Well, we can go somewhere healthy," he replied.How do you possibly argue with that without sounding crazy?As an undeniable orthorexic, I couldn't explain to someone that "healthy" still wasn't "healthy" to me.I agreed to lunch, with anxiety-ridden fears overflowing my brain, and zoned out for the next ten minutes trying to get a grip on myself.I can do this. It's just one meal, just one meal! I thought.As we wrapped up our paddle boarding session, I told him I was going to run to the bathroom real quick, and I disappeared into a nearby hotel to use their restroom.Inside the bathroom, I downed my warm protein shake and started Googling restaurants nearby to suggest.I felt a calmness wash over me. I felt in control of our food. Even if it wasn't to the degree that I would prefer (sitting in my own kitchen eating my own food) I still felt like I had some sort of control.In that bathroom, I decided to never put myself into another compromising situation again for as long as I was in prep for my competition. I never wanted to have to stray from my food for a date with somebody I wasn't even sure was "worth" it.Moving forward, I needed to put my food and body first, and everything else second. That was the only way I could ensure I stayed in control at all times.Now just wasn't the right time to date.But I'm not sure there will ever be a right time . . . Have you ever found yourself feeling anxious about choosing between your diet and social events?Have you ever caught yourself researching restaurants to find a meal that will fit your macros perfectly?Do you feel like you are constantly battling with either the desire to relax with food or eat more strictly?I've been there. I get it.It's easy to jump into food restriction because it provides an instant feeling of control, which makes us feel comfortable. We all want to feel comfortable.The hard truth is it's not about the food. It's about the weight. Letting your weight be where it wants to be is the most uncomfortable decision to make because you are no longer "in control" of your body. Your body is.You, on the other hand, can finally start to enjoy life. When you begin to work as a team with your intuition, senses, heart, and emotions, then your mind can finally free up some space to think about other things, like having fun, dating, relaxing, and moving in a way that feels best for you.Don't you think it's time to relinquish your tight grasp on calories, food, and diet?Is it time to stop drinking warm protein shakes from a purse and start sipping on a milkshake with two straws?!Life is for living, enjoying, and savoring. Let's take advantage while we can.I did end up eating at a restaurant with him, and it was a terribly frustrating event because I could not get my chicken cooked without oil, my broccoli was over-steamed, and the brown rice was suspiciously fluffy.I never went on another date with him again. 







Chapter Fourback to topThe last I heard from Tanner, my trainer, was when he told me I shouldn't celebrate my birthday with my friends because it would most likely lead to eating out and drinking, which would obviously ruin my chances of winning. He told me to just avoid celebrations to ensure I didn't cave, so I did that. It was a pretty lame birthday. But other than that one piece of advice, I only heard crickets from him. I hadn't heard from him for an exceptionally long time, considering how much I had paid him, so I reached out to him to set up a progress check-in.He obliged and met with me the following weekend to do a "bikini check," which really just means pinch my body fat with a caliper and see how much I've lost.I had lost 15 pounds off my already-weak body.Being tall, my body's natural and comfortable weight is around 130 lbs. or more. This should have been a big wake-up call that I was taking drastic measures but my mind-set was so clouded with vanity and societal pressures, I was undeniably proud of myself.After congratulations, high-fives, and compliments, we parted ways. He was proud of the work I had done to get to where I was, still with five weeks till show time to go.I went home to eat a meal of chicken and broccoli when I received a text from Tanner asking for some progress photos in my competition bikini just to make sure the entire package is on point (a package is another way of talking about your competition presentation)."Sure thing!" I wrote, and put on my lime green sequined suit. My roommate took a few shots of me in the living room, making sure that my clear-competition-shoe-clad feet were placed in such a way that lifted my butt and created extra hippy hips.A few Instagram filters later, I sent him the touched-up photo. "Nice! Looking great!" he replied.I took my suit off and put on my pajamas to finish my meal when my phone dinged again. I read the message probably three times to make sure I had read it correctly.It read, "I am trying to go to sleep but I can't. All I can think about is your tiny green swimsuit, living room, those blue eyes, and that blonde hair."I didn't respond of course. I thought maybe he was out drinking or just joking around. But wait, this is Tanner we're talking about. Tanner doesn't drink; he's just as restrictive as the next fitness competitor.My phone dinged and I read more disturbingly flirtatious and inappropriate things. Turns out, Tanner was engaged and building a house with his fiancée. I didn't know he was engaged at the time because he never revealed any personal information about himself, but I was still uncomfortable (I later found out the news from a mutual friend).I had already lost many of my friends because of my isolation and obsession. My coach was one of the only people I knew I could be honest with and reach out to when I needed support. I knew I could be honest with him about the psychological turmoil I was going through with my competition prep.Three texts later, I was completely disturbed by what I was reading and cut him off by confessing that I didn't feel that way about him. I felt violated. It was my first personal experience of the seduction factor of a "fitness" body.In a way, he was like my doctor. I trusted him, and now he was taking this relationship to a whole different level (and one that was really inappropriate considering his very serious engagement status). I didn't hear a response for at least a couple weeks after I had sent that text telling him that I didn't feel that way about him. The show was still five weeks away.So to recap, he wrote me one diet plan the entire eighteen-week prep, and I followed that exact plan for the entire prep. Not one blueberry more or spinach leaf less.In fact, outside of one meal, I wasn't allowed any fruit.No nutritiously dense, vitamin-rich, juicy, juicy fruit.It wasn't on the plan!I was avoiding almost all of Mother Nature's gifts simply because Tanner told me to follow his plan strictly—but for all I know, he might have wrote that plan in two minutes without incorporating any of my personal dietary needs into the matter.And yet, I still trusted him blindly above all of my own body's needs.Weeks before we parted ways, I reached out to Tanner in desperation, asking for some variety in my meal plan. Tanner gave me permission to have one piece of fruit. I'll never forget the one afternoon I made myself a peanut butter banana sandwich on a smart-calorie bagel.I spent what felt like hours seductively applying the single tablespoon of peanut butter on the piece of bread and gently slicing up half of the banana for its two gluten-packed pillows. It was the first time I'd had bread and
a banana in weeks. I sat on my bedroom floor with the door shut and spent at least five minutes savoring this tiny sandwich with every ounce of my soul.It was one of the only moments of pure bliss I can actually recall from that prep.I was so limited and restricted from all food choices that I wanted to take advantage of every morsel this sandwich so graciously gave me.During these dark days, my roommate Cameryn ate freely whenever she was hungry and, needless to say, this confused the crap out of me. When she was hungry, she'd go to the cabinet and pull out crackers or ingredients to make dinner, all spontaneous and whatnot. I just didn't get it.How does it work to eat whenever you're hungry? Where is your meal plan? WHAT ARE YOU DOING?I was so confused by the fact that she was harmonizing freedom, intuition, and balance all at the same time.It's Sunday night and I've just finished up bulk cooking my chicken breast and broccoli. I wipe the sweat off my brow and wave to my roommate as she passes through the kitchen."Hey, Cameryn," I mutter as I stop the timer and pull out the tray of twenty breasts, careful to keep the juice in the tray to prevent my hand from getting burned."Another month of chicken ready to go?" she asks as she walks over to grab her usual midday snack of crackers and peanut butter."Yeah, well, you know. It keeps me on track," I tell her as I pull out my food scale from the cabinet.Cameryn nods at me with a sympathetic smile and retreats back to her bedroom where her boyfriend is lounging on her bed as they catch up on Mad Men.I knew I was close to being as carefree as Cameryn. I just needed to lean out a little more, and I too would be able to finally relax and watch Mad Men without feeling guilty about missing a workout.Maybe I'd even be able to find myself a handsome man to watch it with.In the meantime, I knew that I needed to stay sharp on my diet and workouts to ensure that I kept up with my body image and figure. If I lost my figure, I'd really have nothing.I thought about all of the things I needed to work on in order to find myself living like Cameryn.I need to lose a few more pounds. I need to eat cleaner. I need to eat less fruit. I need to eat less sugar overall. I'm sure my daily bowls of oatmeal are adding too much sugar, as well as my occasional Emergen-C packets and packs of gum.I need to have more self-control. I need to be more disciplined.My thoughts diverted to Cameryn.Cameryn doesn't have any of these obsessions.She's never on a diet, she's never changing anything about her body, and she focuses on finding value within.This got me thinking—how would I feel about Cameryn if she were just like me? Would I like her and admire her as much as I do?Reflecting on the irony of the situation, I realized that I appreciate Cameryn as much as I do because of the fact that she's different from most women.She's not obsessed with her body, food, or image—she's pleased with how she is (right now!) because she's using her body to live. She doesn't have time to bulk prep a month's worth of chicken.She's got a relationship to grow.She's got a career to pursue.She's not dwelling in a place of lack.Why is it that some of us search for our worth within our chicken breasts, green beans, and sweet potatoes, while others have an easier time cultivating happiness in more gratifying places?After years of asking myself this question, I narrowed it down to two main reasons. Of course, there are many subcategories but these are two of the most common underlying factors.1. Fear of rejectionThis is primal. Our ancestors had to deal with some pretty terrible situations in regards to "fitting in" with the cool kids. If a tribe didn't protect you, you and your family were left outside in the cold to starve and die.Similarly, we want to be accepted—in a more social light. This brings us a sense of security. Whether or not we want to be accepted because of our good deeds, our bodies, or our social status, it feels good to be recognized and accepted.But what happens when we don't feel accepted, even if we are? Some people shrug it off, and say "Oh well, didn't need that anyway."Or maybe my personal favorite, "It wasn't meant to be!"But what happens when "shrugging things off" isn't your strong suit? It's quite possible you take it out on yourself with the one thing you can control—the one thing you are certain you'll receive recognition for.Your body.2.
Fear of losing controlWe aren't in control of the future. We aren't in control of most things, actually. At any minute, our lives can be taken from us. Our loved ones can be stolen away. Our careers can disappear without notice. Our homes can be destroyed. Our friends can turn their backs.With all of this said, without the bad there
is
no good. We have to learn to take the bad with the good because only then can the good be so very
good.For example, if you focus solely on controlling your diet (because you fear the unknown) you will never truly experience the best life imaginable (yes, the one that's currently waiting for you on the other side of that meal plan!). You'll miss out on the opportunity to cultivate relationships, love, happiness, dreams, and everything else. Sure, there will be dark days. But without those dark days, there aren't amazingly bright ones.No matter what your reason is for fixating on your food and body, it's leading you further away from the life you desire.People who only like you for your body are not your people. Finding your self-worth within your food will never bring you satisfaction.Avoiding all good because you're scared of the bad will only lead you to a mediocre life.Don't you think it's time to live fearlessly with body respect, self-acceptance, and food freedom?Truth be told, dieting, leanness, and weight loss are not a prerequisite for receiving love and feeling carefree. They never will be.If anything, they are keeping you from feeling unconditional bliss.It's time to forget about bulk cooking, meal timing, and food combinations.Commit to eating for enjoyment, touching for pleasure, and loving for the sake of love.Then and only then, will you be able to experience true freedom. 







Chapter Fiveback to topOn my way to my first posing class for my competition, I met someone. Walking into the gym where the class was hosted, I admired the way his sweet cut-off tank gracefully outlined his slightly-bigger-than-average biceps and the way his brown hair fell straight around his face. We exchanged smiles (and phone numbers) and arranged a coffee date.Ben and I hit it off, and decided to give the relationship a shot.Ben was really patient with me. He didn't push me to get off my plan or stop being crazy around food. He admired my determination because he believed that it was short term and would end when the show did. Little did he know this occasion didn't call for a routine much different from my average one. The only difference was that being able to say, "Oh I can't drink any wine because I have to stick to my meal plan for my fitness competition!" was a better excuse than the truth: "Sugar just scares me" or "Your healthy isn't really healthy by my standards."This was my unquestionable excuse for avoiding social gatherings that involved delicious cocktails; it was my reason to hide indoors, away from unknown calories that might ruin my "perfectly" molded body.The thought of gaining body fat and losing the physique I had worked so hard for was terrifying and Ben had no idea.We continued to date and he didn't question the fact that I brought over all of my meals to his house whenever we watched movies or hung out. He would eat his home-cooked dinner, free of caloric worries, and I would pop open my Tupperware lid and go to town on some unsalted crunchy, raw green beans.It wasn't the typical start to most relationships, but we had such a good time together otherwise that we wanted to make it work.Ben was smart, funny, kind, and successful at everything he focused on. At the beginning of our relationship, I focused less on food because there was something else in my life that took precedence. Ben. We enjoyed everything we could to the best of our abilities. We'd still go to the movies and to concerts; I would simply have my meals with me and he would get whatever he wanted to eat there. But, eventually, once the newness of the relationship wore off, I became more anxious and ritualistic about my routine.I noticed that my body was starving for nutrients, and frankly, I was almost jealous of Ben for having the freedom that he did. I was jealous that he didn't see food the way I did. I was jealous that he was comfortable with his body, and mine was never really enough.I noticed that, since my life was lacking sweetness, I craved sweetness with food. To satisfy these cravings, once a week I would allow myself one berry Emergen-C packet to enjoy. Right out of the bag.Those little packets of vitamin C were my weekly "treat" as long as I effectively worked it off the next day with ten more minutes on the treadmill.These secret guilty pleasures went undiscovered, as I was too embarrassed by my way of thinking. I knew something wasn't right with believing that a vitamin C pack was a treat, but I continued anyway.I didn't tell Ben that I ate vitamin C supplements as a snack because I knew that would reveal a little too much about my nature. I also didn't want him to know just how guilty I typically felt after eating those.I would run the five calories off on the treadmill because I couldn't bear the thought of allowing that supplement to ruin my chances at placing well at my upcoming show.As I explained before, my diet was composed of seven different foods for the entire competition prep (minus that one peanut butter banana sandwich day). What I didn't mention is that I was eating very few calories composed of those seven foods.Calories are very misunderstood.We've been trained to believe that we need to eat fewer and fewer calories. We need to save calories wherever we can.Have you ever gone into a restaurant that visibly shows the calories in every meal, and you chose the one with less?I'm not saying it's bad to eat lower calorie meals, but it's not mandatory and sometimes it is unhealthy because your body needs calories to function.Did you know you need calories to talk, sleep, work, eat, play, walk, think, and breathe? Calories are not just needed for workouts!I can't tell you how many years I lived thinking that I only deserved the calories that I needed (and burned) in workouts. What about the other 23 hours in a day? Are those hours just magically exempt from needing energy?Calories are energy. Calories are required to do anything that needs energy—which is everything.I became very restrictive with my calories for my fitness competition because I wanted to lose as much weight as possible. In order to do well in a fitness competition, most people have to restrict their calorie intake to an unhealthy degree. There are certain people that are used to eating massive amounts of calories and have a fast metabolism, and they can continue to eat a high number of calories during competition prep, but those people are few and far between.Most of us start our weight-loss journey with a certain number of calories and continually drop the allowance week after week. Your body continually adjusts to the new calorie allotments by reserving energy where it can, whether that means your brain function, sex drive, physical activity, hormones, rest, or some other place.Combine a lack of calories with a lack of micronutrients, and you have a deprived human being. That was my case, at least.I was eating a calorie-deprived meal plan while putting my body through two hours of workouts a day, going to college, and dating somebody.It's no wonder things started to shut off and work improperly.Two things (amongst many others) can happen when you eat so little and work out so hard.First, you can lose your period.If your body experiences a "fight-or-flight" circumstance, it shuts off any unnecessary functions. For instance, if you don't feed yourself enough calories, it protects you by making it impossible to have a baby because it knows you wouldn't be able to feed it either.Our bodies are truly incredible.Another bodily function it reduces is your sex drive. Sex is not a requirement for survival and so, to conserve more energy for you, it will take away all temptation to spend unnecessary calories. When it comes to calorie expenditures, sex is one of those big 'uns. I remember once when I was getting ready for a photo shoot, one of my coaches at the time told me that prepping for the shoot would make me extremely distant from relationships and physical contact because it just isn't in the cards for fitness models and competitors.Which I find really funny considering the definition of fitness is to be able to reproduce.I also find it funny because us "normal" folk look at fitness models and think they must indulge in intimacy all the time, though it's actually the complete opposite. There's no time or energy for it, and—for many of them—there's no confidence for it either.Ironically, in our messy society, we are taught that "fitness" means all of the sex appeal, but in reality, it means none of the actual sex.It's a total lie. For example, the media tries to use sex to sell something (a gym membership, a supplement, a cardio class, an outfit, etc.) but then, after the initial glamour of the product wears off, you're left isolated and exhausted. You're too tired for any romantic contact and too obsessed with calories and exercise to have time for a relationship either.I absolutely hate the fact that "sex" sells. Trust me. I think it's the cheapest and most deceptive way to sell something, but I don't think the media would agree with me on this one. I believe sex is meant for those that are in love and committed to one another, but that's for another book.When my trainer told me that I better get ready to be single for a long time, he spoke with self-righteous pride, as if I had every right to feel superior to others because I was too fit, determined, and disciplined to have a relationship.While this didn't feel right to me, it was also true. I was exhausted from my workouts and lack of food, so I really didn't want Ben to keep me up past my bedtime or distract me from my workouts.Regardless, I tried to make it work. I would make tiny compromises here and there, but generally, I would do whatever I could to make sure I stayed on track. Sometimes, I'd sneak out of bed at the crack of dawn to make sure that I had my first meal of the day, or I'd go home to "grab something" real quick, when in reality my laxative was just kicking in.When faced with a Sunday morning dilemma such as choosing between cuddling or my first meal of the day, I did the only thing I knew to do.I made a run for it and scrambled to the kitchen for my dry oatmeal and egg whites. "Noooo, just this once please sleep in and cuddle," he'd say.I'd simply roll my eyes because he just didn't get it. He didn't get my dedication to thinness.
Ben was patient, but I would be lying if I said my habits didn't put a damper on our honeymoon phase.Along with losing my period, I also had insanely awful stomach bloat.On the outside, I was a tight, lean, fit chick but what was going on in the inside was too uncomfortable to bear.And this isn't just the case for me. I have heard countless stories of men and women that join the clean-eating club and immediately find themselves writhing in pain.If you're wondering why you have gas all the time since eating clean, it could be from one of the same reasons I did. Here are a few:1. I was eating significantly less and therefore required fewer acids and juices to break down certain foods. It was much harder for my stomach to digest meals.2. I ate every three hours and constantly had food backed up in my system. More food hanging out in the bowels meant more gas. 3. I wasn't eating nearly enough fiber. Period.4. I was eating calorie-free chemical concoctions like Walden Farms zero-calorie pancake syrups and imitation chocolate sauces, which all have laxative properties. (Zero-calorie chocolate?!)5. Speaking of laxatives, I took a few of those because I couldn't poop naturally with my crazy limited diet.6. I cut out a ton of food groups and a very necessary macro (fat) for efficient digestion.7. I was eating my body weight in vegetables (bloat city!). 8. I ate in a stressed state because I lost all interest and love for eating and cooking. 9. I was constantly sucking in to look thinner, which caused stress and unnecessary tightness in my stomach. 10. I was eating a lot of protein, which is where "protein farts" comes from.I know, that was gross. But somebody had to say it!Needless to say, this causes a lot of extra stress when it comes to cultivating relationships and going places. Nobody wants to work out or hang with friends with wonky and unpredictable stomach tendencies. It was just another reason I wanted to stay indoors away from social gatherings.This is a pretty common problem, unfortunately, and it's not just for fitness models or clean eaters.You could be experiencing Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS) or sensitivities for a hundred different reasons but my expertise is particularly with people who have a history of restrictive diets, an eating disorder, or an exercise addiction.If you do not fit into one of those categories, I highly suggest you find a holistic doctor that can help you get your body back on track.On the other hand, if you have cut out food groups for no reason at all, my suggestion to you is not going to be what you want to hear, most likely, but it's definitely what you need to hear.My advice is that you just start eating.Add food back in one at a time, letting your body adjust. I don't want you to avoid any foods in particular, so feel free to add in whatever
you want, but you'll be most comfortable if you feed your body daily doses of one thing at a time.For example, for a year or so I avoided gluten, grains, beans, and dairy. At another point, I avoided meat. When it came to the former group, I first began with the harmless of the three: the grains. I started eating more rice, quinoa, and soaked oats. These were easily digested and while I did experience some irritation here and there, after a couple months everything felt much more natural.That's not to say that I don't get an upset stomach from grains sometimes, because I do. This depends on certain factors such as what I ate before or what I ate it with. This process is called "listening to your body." Even though I don't always feel like a rock star after eating oats with coffee, that doesn't mean I can't handle oats period. I don't believe in black-and-white nutrition rules anymore unless it's an obviously terrible reaction such as a hive break out, vomiting, or actual stomach pain.When I get a stomachache from eating oatmeal with coffee, I sit and think, "Hmm, I wonder why that is. Maybe it's because of a reaction between the acid of the coffee and the fibrous characteristics of the oats."I ponder, I take a mental note, and then I move on. Done.From there on out, I am careful about that combination but it doesn't mean that I avoid either coffee or oatmeal. I know for a fact that cutting out any food group does not serve my body. Does this mean that I eat everything and anything?Well, I don't really like mustard, so I don't eat that. And to be totally honest, I don't enjoy eating bagged chips or pickles. Does that mean those are bad foods? No way.I was made with a particular set of genes so I understand that my body likes certain foods for a reason and gets sensitive to other foods for its own special little reasons.I continued to add my off-limit foods back into my diet until eventually I could digest them all without any recurring problems.This process took a very, very long time—between seven months and a year. It will be different for everyone, depending on how long you've been limiting foods, how your body digests them, allergies, legitimate sensitivities, etc.This goes without saying, but if you're in pain, stop eating said food. Don't force yourself to eat anything that makes you feel crummy, anxious, itchy, or irritated.Sometimes during this venture, people find themselves on the total opposite side of the spectrum where they eat everything in sight all day every day.This is 100 percent okay. Do not feel shameful for it. For a while, your body might think that it's still on a diet, and that food freedom is on a time limit. So you may want to instinctively eat a ton of whatever food you're finally eating again. This is normal and could continue to happen until your body finally understands that it can have this food whenever it wants it. It's not a rarity anymore! If you're very uncomfortable with this, I recommend you find yourself a coach and work on creating balance together. Balance is a tricky little thing to master and it helps to have an outsider's perspective. Being a coach myself, I can speak from personal experience that coaches can offer insight and perspective that you never even thought of. My first body image coach completely turned my life around for the better, which is why I have dedicated my future to doing the same.If you don't think a coach is necessary and you're able to incorporate "fear foods" at a comfortable pace while measuring your own physiological feedback, then that's amazing. Either way, you're my hero just for trying. Facing your food fears is a huge freaking deal. While it challenges you in almost every single way, the end result is pure freedom. That's my goal for you.Another suggestion I have for you is to keep a food journal when you begin the process. When I started eating dairy, especially, I tracked my feelings. No, I didn't track calories or macros, I just kept track of how my emotions changed when I faced new foods that challenged me to face my fears. I recorded what was going on in my head as I ate my meals, as well as what went on with my body after them. Both were equally important for me to track because I truly wanted to know how these foods I had feared for so long made me feel.The journal I chose for documenting my food fears and feelings made me feel good every time I looked at it. I didn't pick a boring black book but a colorful one, full of magic and good vibes. I suggest you do the same! Every time you look at your journal, you want to think of hopeful and promising thoughts.You want to think of love and freedom every time you pick it up.Now, a year after starting this process, I can say all of my off-limits foods make me feel like a rock star. It took awhile, certainly, but with consistent effort, I made progress mentally, physically, and emotionally. If you need coaching, insight, and guidance with this process, check out my services here: maddymoon.com. 







Chapter Sixback to topIf you've made it this far, I must congratulate you. I know bloating and gas aren't the sexiest topics in the book, but hey, I guess that's why these are confessions!There are a couple more things you must know as we move forward in this journey.As my first bodybuilding show was approaching, I adopted another terrible habit that led me to physiological frustration. Your body doesn't know when it's experiencing stress from a relationship, a cut, a fight, a treadmill, or a calorie deficit. Stress is stress is stress, and your body will deal with it however it may.One of the side effects I experienced when I was stressed before my competition was a lack of sleep. I mean a seriously frustrating lack of sleep.My nights were filled with thoughts such as,What is going to happen to my body after the competition? Will it blow up in size?How am I going to stay on track with my diet if I don't have an excuse such as my competition?Will my boyfriend still like my body?AM I GOING TO GET FAT?I wonder if my hair, tan, suit, and body are all going to be perfect on the day of the show.I bet I'm going to trip on the stage.What's my first meal going to be after my show?Why am I spending thousands of dollars for this competition?Mmmmm, it's only 3:00 a.m. but I can't wait till 7:00 a.m. when I can have my one tablespoon of peanut butter. I wish I could have it now. If I have it now, I'll screw up my chances of winning the show. Mmmm, but I'm so hungry it hurts. Tough it out, Madelyn.Not only was my brain moving a million miles an hour, but my body was scared it wasn't going to survive.Literally.My body had no idea the starvation and exercise addiction was recreational.All it knew was that I was starving it and working it out three hours a day. In instinct terms, my body was in a "fight-or-flight" state, and it couldn't afford to sleep. A cheetah might eat me, for all my primal self knew!So as my sleep got screwed up, I began to take Tylenol PM to help me sleep through the night.Night after night, I routinely popped a Tylenol PM and chased it with some magical fiber powder to help with digestion through the night.And all the while, people were looking at my fitness-modeling photos and idolizing my healthy and fit lifestyle. This makes me want to laugh and cry all at once.The body that others were drooling over wasn't even able to perform the most basic of functions without the aid of manmade drugs. I haven't even mentioned the diet cokes and pre-workout zero-calorie energy drink requirements I had before every workout session. Needless to say, nothing was working properly and I didn't even care. I looked the way I wanted, and that's all that I wanted to matter. Have you ever found yourself portraying a role that your actions didn't align with? People on the outside may be in awe of your dedication, determination, and willpower, yet you're struggling, and your reality is the opposite of that image people see.That's what I was experiencing. I wanted outsiders to know the truth about how I felt but I was also so scared of my secret spilling out.The truth made me vulnerable. And vulnerability just made me want to control my diet more and more.And so the cycle continued . . . 







Chapter Sevenback to topThe moment I've been leading up to finally arrived in November: my first fitness competition.In all sincerity, the actual day was a huge letdown. In preparing for the competition, you're in absolute control of your training, diet, dedication, actions, and "progress," but you have absolutely no control over the actual competition.The other competitors were fairly grumpy (can you blame those poor starved souls?) and the music was less than decent. The competition involved a lot of waiting, lip-gloss applying, and nerves.Inside the women's dressing room, we made pleasantries by swapping stories, posing secrets, dieting tricks, and tips from our trainers. We also gushed about our post-competition meals of choice. Girls drooled over the pizza that was only five hours away while others were enjoying a high-sugar treat before walking out on the stage to increase their body's tightness and "pumped up" look. While I thoroughly enjoyed the fact that I had finally found "my people," I was also really lonely. My trainer had abandoned me, my family was far away sitting in the audience, and I had no team of friends competing with me. I was left alone to sit, compare myself to the other bodies, and wait anxiously.The stage entrance experience was less than thrilling, lasting a grand total of ten seconds. I walked out, showed off my stuff, and walked off.Out of the twenty females in my height class, the judges called me out in the second subgroup, which meant that I was considered for a spot in the top 10. While you probably think that placing in the top ten for a first competition is a great spot, it was heartbreaking for me. Wait, I'm not going to be in first place?!I had started this competition simply because I wanted a valid excuse for staying in control of my diet, but somehow, someway, after all of the restriction, isolation, upset stomachs, starvation, and three-hour workouts, I really wanted that gold.I'd lost sight of my original intentions (which weren't very admirable in the first place) and took my intentions to a completely new level that distracted me from all the gratitude I could have experienced in that moment.On the recap card that the judges gave me, it looked like I had placed low on everything except for my hair and makeup, which I didn't even do myself.It was a ranking system, and my card was circled on the lower half on almost every category: symmetry, boobs, curves, posing, and leanness. Apparently, I had a lot of work to do.Since I wanted to do a second fitness show and make up for the areas I didn't place high in, I spent the next year building my muscle base, doing something called a "bulk."If you've ever done a bulk you know that it's fun at first but very soon, it becomes just as miserable as leaning out.In my opinion, it's never fun to have to eat a certain way day after day.Whether you get to eat a lot, or only a little, you are still fighting against your intuition and your body's natural shape. That's why people hire coaches for thousands of dollars per month. It's not easy to fight against your body day after day, so investing money into the process keeps you accountable to keeping up the fight.During my bulk, I could finally eat different foods (and more calories), but I still had to count my macros every single day to ensure that I followed the plan, and I also had to stay persistent about meal timing."One day off the plan would result in a lean bulk disaster!" my new coach would say.So I continued to stuff my face with oatmeal, rice, chicken, broccoli, and whey protein powder every three hours. I even tried creatine for a bit to speed up the muscle building process, which resulted in painful, nonstop bloat.My stomach was having such a hard time digesting food as it was, but adding in so many new foods was a huge shock to my system.Oh and Ben. Can't forget Ben.Well, I think he got tired of me sneaking out of bed to eat my early morning bran cereal and protein shakes every day. Let's be honest, he was sick of all my obsessions. I was too rigid and, truthfully, the foundation of my personality was self-sabotaging obsessions. Part of him wanted to hold out and see if I would turn around but I never did. I took bulking to the extremes, and started to stuff my face day after day simply because I had to in order to make muscle gains.I spent my nights researching contradicting bulking strategies and new workout routines for faster mass.I would eat my allotted calories for the day and still feel guilty, even when I ate exactly how my coach told me to.I felt like I probably ate too much.Even when my macros were spot on according to my macro-counting app, I just thought somehow someway, I had most likely messed up.Guilt, shame, and remorse followed me everywhere.I was stressed every single time I raised my fork to my mouth because I didn't know how I would feel after the meal. Bloated, guilty, sad, frustrated? All of the above?Post-meal time, I would have typical bloating sensations for all of the various reasons I listed earlier, and this threw me way off. Embarrassingly, I thought to myself that it was almost okay that I had been bloated when I was lean because I was a tiny bloated girl.Now I was a bulking bloated girl.Who wants to be that?Apparently I did. I lost my power to say, "No I don't feel like eating right now, so I'm not going to."In every way, I was fighting against my body and I was reflecting my angst in all of my relationships.Eventually, Ben and I split up. I was addicted to rigidness and he was a social butterfly. It just wasn't going to work.So I stuffed my face solo for a while, which was almost a relief for me. Once again, I can finally stay indoors with my special little food and follow my special little training routine every single day with no interruptions!Have you ever found yourself thinking that way?Be honest. Have you ever let out a huge sigh of relief when you realized that you could finally control your life with no social interruptions? But then again, if we don't have social "interruptions," what do we have?We have a scene from I Am Legend, minus the infected human zombies.We have isolation. A world made up of special food and special workout routines. And then we die.If I could go back in time, I wouldn't change a thing because it brought me to where I am today. I do not live a life of regrets but there are certainly lessons I learned that I want to spread to other people experiencing similar mindsets.Today, my mission is to share my past with as many people as possible so that they don't feel like they have to choose a self-sabotaging path for their lives.Have you ever been so addicted to the chase that even when you get what you want, it's still not enough? (Ahem, serial daters . . .)Or have you ever been so consumed by the idea of what life will be like after you accomplish your goal, that when you don't get it, you are heartbroken?Why do we work this way?Don't we deserve to feel good after getting something we invested time, energy, love, and patience into?Don't we deserve to experience feelings of satisfaction and self-accomplishment?I believe the irritating feeling of being unsatisfied originates from two key places: 1. Expectations2. A lack of gratitudeExpectations can easily result in a lack of gratitude.On the other hand, experiencing gratitude can cause you to relinquish expectations.You may have heard the simple but powerful quote by Dale Carnegie: "Two men looked out from prison bars, One saw the mud, the other saw the stars."How we see the world is shaped by our experiences and perceptions. Though we cannot change our experiences, we can change our perceptions by experiencing gratitude for life itself.In an effort to be honest and vulnerable with my beautiful readers, I have to admit something. Being grateful was never natural to me.I wasn't grateful for the body I had. I wasn't grateful for my college education. I wasn't grateful for the exceptional family I was raised by.Why? Because I was always the victim and never the victor. I was the victim of life, never in control, regardless of how hard I tried. Life continuously aimed to work against my superficial desires.This is where my disordered eating stemmed from.I was always the victim of life and its unexpected outcome, therefore I never experienced true gratitude for all of the wonder I was given.I truly believe in the Law of Attraction and the Power of Positive Thinking (Google this if you don't know what it is), so I'm not saying that life won't bring you what you want, but again, both of those things require one secret ingredient: gratitude!If you want to attract abundance into your life, you must first experience gratitude as if you already have the life you want. You don't need to have any expectations for this to "work" because you are cultivating a vision from a place of contentment and happiness.It's the same with the Power of Positive Thinking; positive thinking cannot result from feeling victimized in life. Instead, it results from viewing life as the victor. Merely mastering the art of gratitude can result in so many wondrous shifts in your life.When people ask me how I conquered my disordered eating, they are usually looking for a formula that involves therapists, workbooks, workshops, and hypnotism. While some of these strategies work really well for certain people, my secret to recovery truly lies in training my gratitude muscle.I could have talked to somebody twice a week and festered over the lack of abundance in life, but instead, I searched within. I spent days and days investigating within, trying to locate my gratitude muscle.For a really long time, I couldn't find it.It was out of order.But eventually, I began to connect with it in spurts. Over time, I started appreciating the little things in life more. My disordered eating habits were still second nature, but I started to at least see that some of the things that controlled my life weren't the be-all and end-all. I realized that the five calories in an Emergen-C packet weren't going to ruin my body. Soon enough, I realized the calories in a banana weren't so bad either. Eventually, after a lot of practice and patience, I also realized that two scoops of ice cream on a cone weren't going to ruin my body.And then, with more time, I began to see that "ruining my body" wasn't even a legitimate fear. My body couldn't be ruined. Even if I gained weight, it was still my body. And any body is an amazing body, no matter what shape or size. Breaking up with my meal plan started to feel less chaotic and more freeing. Backing out of the fitness scene stopped feeling so daunting and started feeling more liberating.I began to thank my body for its existence on a daily basis and stopped bashing it for its inability to maintain perfection.Gratitude was my secret sauce.







Chapter Eightback to topWhen you hear "fitness modeling" what immediately comes to your mind?Hot and lean bodies?During my fitness-modeling days, most people actually assumed I was prepubescent. My lack of body fat (and boobs), plus my nonexistent waistline and sallow face resulted in an image that screamed malnourished child. Plus, I was never seen out at parties, bars, or social events. I didn't mind this so much. I mean, if being skinny meant that others thought I was young, it wasn't too bad of a trade. I could make that sacrifice.It was my extremely unhealthy way of thinking.You see, I hadn't always wanted to be a fitness model. I didn't even realize that was on my mind until I found myself posing for pictures in swimsuits after lightening my platinum hair and using Instagram hashtags like #fitnessmodel and #bikinigirl. In one sense, it snuck up on me. I became consumed very quickly. Fitness modeling wasn't a four-year dream that I slowly chipped at one day at a time. It was a four-month process that started with me wanting to do something I didn't think was possible (like sticking to a monotonous diet and signing up for a fitness competition) and ended with me starved for self-love and hungry for more superficial spotlight time. While I say that I didn't have a four-year modeling plan, that's not to say physical perfection and glorified aesthetics hadn't been on my mind since I was young.In fact, my interest in cultivating a magazine-worthy body started in middle school. Many of us women have envisioned our bodies as the centerfold of Women's Health, Cosmopolitan, Marie Claire, or some generic fitness magazine—one of the top ten fittest bodies for the year. It's an alluring dream.Every single day, an innocent girl discovers the power of physical aesthetics.Every moment, children, women, and men realize the advantages of thin privilege. Similarly, they experience judgment. There are prejudices against height, weight, skin color, gender, sexual preferences, ethnicity, and so on.But let's be honest—there's always going to be somebody out there that will judge you. From this realization stems the desire to adopt a body that's universally adored—a body that is seen by everybody to be the best, the highest on the food chain of bodies, so to speak.The one that is "least" picked on.Depending on your body, sex, and race you may have different opportunities in life, ranging from the job you're offered, the salary you're given and the spouse you choose. Thinner bodies have been statistically proven to have more social opportunities in various areas of life; in a culture driven by sex, sometimes these bodies are seen as better or even more deserving than those with average or slightly above-average bodies. This is called thin privilege.A common assumption made about thin bodies is that they are healthy. People with thin bodies are seen as disciplined because they have self-control over their cravings.And if a thin person is seen eating pizza or junk food, people commonly scoff and just say they are lucky that they can get away with eating things most people can't.There is history attached to the word thin. There are underlying assumptions made when somebody is skinny, thin, and lean. Personally, I think one of the most damaging of these underlying beliefs is that thin people are healthy. It's possible to eat junk food nonstop and remain thin. Thinness is not a consistent indicator for health, yet people refuse to change their mind-set on this. Two friends can have the exact same eating patterns, yet one could be fat and the other thin. The thin friend may be called "lucky" for her fast metabolism, but that doesn't mean she will live a long and fulfilled life, especially if she continually feeds her body foods that don't provide much nutrition. The other friend, the so-called fat one, could be seen as lazy, gluttonous, unhealthy, greedy, and always hungry simply because of her size. There are underlying assumptions and judgments behind both bodies.In the same way that a thin person can be unhealthy, a fat person can be healthy.Every story is unique, as every body differs.If you're looking for confirmation that fat = unhealthy and thin = healthy, then you're in the wrong place.Unlike the media, my goal is to expose the truth, share my experiences, and open you up to an entirely new perspective that will help make the rest of your life a lot more enjoyable and hopefully comfortable.But if you just want to hear the same ole story that goes like,"I was fat, tired, miserable, and single, but now that I've lost 75 lbs, I'm living the life of my dreams! You can have this too, if you just buy this product and join this diet club!" . . . then you're in the wrong place.There will be none of that.What I will say is that if you read this book closely and open up your mind to new ideas, you will find yourself in a much better place with your own body, food, and life.I became very conscious of how the world ranks body types when I was in elementary school. My understanding intensified as I entered middle school and started to determine my actions in high school. These underlying connotations began to control my life in college and then outright governed my early twenties. I share my story today to provide insight for people of all backgrounds: men and women, young and old.Maybe you've never heard about the dark side of the beauty, fitness, or modeling industries and you're unknowingly contributing to it. No shame there! The best thing you can do is just keep reading.On the other hand, you could be a "what if-er," where you're always wondering how your life would be different if you were a part of this glamorous industry.If you're a woman, maybe you've been wondering . . .What if I had gotten that modeling gig when I was younger? Where would I be now?What if I was prettier than my sister? How would things have turned out?What if I still had that body I did when I was in my twenties or thirties?What if I got a boob job like all of my friends? Where would we rank against each other? If you are a man, maybe you've found yourself pondering . . .What if I had a six-pack and looked like a conventional "manly" man?What if I had a supermodel wife?What if I was known for my dashing looks instead of my nerdy ability to code?If any of these thoughts have popped into your head, it's okay. This is a no-judgment zone.To my ladies in the club: we are all sisters, and it's time we start lifting each other up—bodies, fat, boobs, and all.To my men in the hizz house: we want to please you guys—it's important you know what's going on in the heads of women so you don't find yourself accidently supporting any self-degrading, body shaming, or painfully unnecessary beauty rituals.And if you're a man struggling with your body image, know that your body is incredible. The media pushes the boundaries of what it means to "be a man" just as much as it does for women; truthfully, your manliness has nothing to do with how you look. What makes a man, and a woman, is the character we each exemplify. Are you a parent? If so, there is a lot you can do to stop this cycle. You always have impressionable eyes watching you. You form your children's belief systems but your contribution extends outside into your community. Mothers are the nurturing leaders of our world. Your opinions of others make a difference. I can't stress that enough. Fathers are leaders and role models.You have the power to stop—or at least greatly reduce—societal pressures put on children. You have the power to teach them the importance of character and what's going on inside of the body. If you picked up this book because you're curious about the downfalls of fitness modeling, I hope you have received some insight from my story.My goal is to expose the truth behind the fitness industry, to teach you new ways to use your language to end the glorification of thinness, and to promote bio-individuality no matter a person's size or shape.Or maybe you're just interested in what it's like to be a fitness model. Maybe there's a part of you that really wants to have that experience.It's possible that you dream of standing on a stage in a swimsuit with perfectly straightened hair, outrageously sparkly jewelry, and the feeling of "beauty" radiating from you.If this is something you want, that's perfectly okay.This is a no-judgment zone.Whatever you want is what you want. Don't feel ashamed or guilty for it.While that's an incredibly simple statement, it's powerful. You should never feel guilt or remorse for what you want. Your whole life you've seen one side of the fitness-modeling world—the outcome of the perfectly polished photoshopped photo. You rarely ever get to see the blood, sweat, tears, and pain exerted into producing a body that goes against one's biological makeup. More so, you never see the aftermath of it! What happens after that perfectly poised photo is taken, the sports bra is ripped off, and she goes back to "real" life?Is it ever the same?It took awhile for me to realize that it was time to release the tension I had about the idea of the perfect body. I knew that I would never truly be satisfied with my size and shape and that I couldn't create a life worth living if I only focused on trivial matters such as calories and my weight.After my fitness competition, I scheduled many modeling photo shoots. I obsessively dieted and restricted my calorie intake. None of them ever brought the satisfaction I imagined they would. Maybe you've always believed that your life would be so much better if you were a sexy model. Maybe you just want to be thin. Maybe you believe that only thin women are beautiful, worthy, and successful.If that is you, you've picked up the right book. I am not ashamed of my experiences and I truly believe I would not be doing you justice if I didn't share them with you. You've probably only heard one side of the coin about the fitness industry, and I want to change that.Most fitness models have gone through so many unhealthy and drastic measures,
and they want you to believe it was worth it. They're nervous they'll lose credentials and glorification if you knew that they had been miserable throughout the process.You may not buy into the product they are selling anymore!I honestly don't care about any of that. In fact, my entire purpose with this book is to get you to change your mind-set about your body and help you find yourself in a place of contentment.Whereas many models may love the fact that you want their body, I'm the opposite. I want you to know the truth. That's it. Your truth might end up different than my truth, but either way, you will have more insight to make your own conclusions. You won't be kept in the dark anymore. You will finally have another side of the story: one that's been safely locked away by so many people before me.  







Chapter Nineback to topI think to some degree, many of us have the urge to look different than we do. We want to look better. In my first book, The Perfection Myth: How to Break Free From the Dogmatic Chains of Health and Dieting, I briefly elaborated on my path to body acceptance. I skimmed the surface of my personal journey from vegetarian, to vegan, to bodybuilder, to Paleo, to bodybuilder again, and then finally into the arms of the eat-whatever-the-heck-I-want diet.It took a while to get to a place of body acceptance but if you read The Perfection Myth, you already know that. In this book, I didn't want to just skim over a lot of little things in my past; instead, I wanted to cover one big thing in great detail.Many people that come to me for coaching want help with their desire to look like a model because deep down inside they don't want to want that anymore. Kind of like when you really want an extra piece of pumpkin pie on Thanksgiving but you also don't because you're completely stuffed. Wanting to have a different body than the one God graced you with results in a similar emotion. Deep, deep, deep down, your body tries to protect you by saying "Hey, no! Let's just enjoy our current body! It'll be less stressful!" But then your ego says, "I'll never be good enough if I don't look like that," or maybe, "I won't be accepted in the groups I want to be included in if I don't look like them."For most of my life I desired to look "better" than I did. But in reality, it all just came down to my perception.I could choose to see my body as "less than" or I could choose to see my body as "equal" to any other body.I have a small wooden plaque in my living room that serves as a constant reminder that how I feel about my body is all perception. It says, "Happiness is a choice you make ahead of time."So simple, right?But at the same time, it's not simple. A feeling of lack is more comfortable and socially acceptable than a feeling of contentment. Feeling content in your body, or secure in your size, feels like laziness.That's how the media wants you to feel.If you're currently feeling good about your body some days, but extremely unsatisfied other days, keep in mind that most of those thoughts come from your learned perception.Controlling perception is not an easy task, especially when that muscle hasn't been trained in a while.It's so much easier to go with the flow and feel bad about yourself when you want to, throw pity parties, do what feels comfortable, and complain when you're not happy.It's important to allow yourself to feel what you're feeling.That includes feeling angry, sad, mad, and unsatisfied. Every feeling has a time and place. With that said, it's a problem when those feelings govern your life for longer than minutes at a time. It's a problem when those feelings lead you into long-term depression. It's a problem when you can't move past those feelings and channel your energy into something more positive.When those emotions linger, even when they are unwelcomed, you may find your mind in a disagreement with your body. You are on different pages!Self-improvement is an extremely important aspect of my life and the lives of all of my clients. There is always something I can learn more about or a craft that I can be better at. But the things I choose to study and improve on come from a positive perception and a positive desire.It's not from a place of misery, unworthiness, and self-doubt.ACTION STEP: There are a few podcasts I listen to on a regular basis. I remember one of them recommended that listeners stop fighting their emotions by allowing themselves to feel what they're feeling and do something to relieve that emotion for five minutes and only five minutes.Do what you have to do, whether it's kicking a wall, screaming into a pillow, thrashing your arms around, or crying in bed. The trick is, once those five minutes are over, you move on with your day. You go create something. You channel your energy towards something positive. This practice has worked wonders for me and I highly suggest you give it a shot too!Working with as many people as I do, I keep my ears open and eyes peeled for repetitive issues. While we all have different stories and journeys, the root causes for our issues with our bodies typically come from similar originations.One thing I've realized in the past year or so is that one of the biggest reasons we are attached to the idea of having a particular body shape or size is because of what other people think or say about us.I believe many of us would be completely content with our bodies if it were up to us, but because we continue to give the power up to other people, that day never comes.You may be wondering, Why can't I just be happy with my body now?You, on your own, might already be.You don't mind how you look so much.What you do mind is how
other people think you look. You're so concerned with what they are thinking about you that you don't even allow yourself to completely and utterly enjoy your unique body.Deep down you want to, but you're fearful of what will happen in the minds of others if you finally let yourself love your body unconditionally.You might be thinking:Will I let myself go?Will I lose control over my diet?Will I gain a whole bunch of weight?Will I get lazy?These are all questions I hear day after day. What most people don't realize is that your intuition is dying to take over for once—if only you would let it. Your body knows more than your mind does when it comes to movement, food, sleep, and sex.We overthink everything. We overthink what we want to eat. We overthink whom we should date. We overthink how much and how often we should work out.Why do we do this?We do this because we are wondering, What are THEY thinking about me?What if you simply let yourself feel, do, breathe, eat, and move without being concerned about what anybody else thinks?I get it. This is so much easier said than done.You can't control how people respond to your weight loss or weight gain.You can't expect most people to understand how necessary a five, ten, or twenty pound weight gain is to your mental (and physical) health.You can't demand that friends understand what you're going through or how damaging their comments are when they congratulate you on your recent weight loss or open their eyes wide at your recent weight gain.You can't make your boyfriend understand just how big of a deal it is that you finally ate chips and salsa at the Mexican restaurant without freaking out.You can't force people to understand that skinny does not always mean healthy and that fat does not always mean unhealthy.All of this has to happen inside of you. Not them.You have to be the one that understands this.And that's certainly something you CAN control.Just like you once used food to cope with the things you couldn't control in life (like people's opinions of your body), now you must use self-love as a way to control your emotions and feelings about yourself when other people comment on your body unnecessarily.Instead of changing your body when your mom comments on your weight gain, start training your brain to not respond negatively to comments about weight gain.This starts with desensitizing yourself to fat shaming.For example, it may serve you well to start reading books that expose the truth about fat shaming, thin privilege, Health at Every Size (HAES), and body positivity.Become a part of the movement.Become one of the people that stands up for weight gain because you know the truth about HAES. You know that just because somebody has more weight than they did when they were younger, that doesn't mean they are less healthy.Understand the facts.Spend more time looking at plus-sized models on Instagram.Read more books and memoirs about women who have done incredible things at greater-than-average sizes.Become a part of the movement.It's truly the quickest way to feel more confident in your beautiful body, no matter what size, weight, or shape you may be at.ACTION STEP: Think about where your desire to change your body comes from?If you enjoy intensive exercises, think about all of the reasons you want to change your body. Close your eyes for two minutes and think about all of your motivations for aesthetical changes. Then pull out a pen and paper and write down all your reasons, even if they don't make sense. Create a judgment-free zone for yourself so that your reasons are authentic and genuine. Now look at your list and analyze where you think your motivations are coming from. Are they coming from a place of lack? Fear?Unworthiness?Guilt?Are your reasons coming from a place of joy?Excitement?Happiness?Worthiness?Do you want a different body because you are afraid of what others think? Do you want a different body because ritualistic behaviors like calorie counting make you feel in control?Are these goals taking you further away from a truly authentic life?If yes, create new goals and coping mechanisms to turn to when you feel stressed or anxiety filled. Create a new blueprint for your life that feels great and feeds your passion.When I decided to write out this list (I called it my Fun List), I came up with a long list of things to begin doing instead of restricting myself from food. I told myself to try out a painting class, start a podcast, write more blog posts, eat at restaurants more, journal, color in adult coloring books, listen to more music, try out dance classes, and so many more things.While at first these things may not bring immediate comfort like you find whenever you exercise and diet, it's not to say that they won't later on. Always remember, happiness is a choice. You can have a list of a million reasons why think you should change your body, but if none of them provide real happiness, then it's all a waste of time. On the flip side, if all of your reasons for changing your body add happiness to your life every day then continue to keep those positive vibes high and mighty. You're already ahead of the game. 







Chapter Tenback to topEvery single day, subtle messages in advertisements point to perfection. Perfection sells; we all know this.The idea of perfection makes us want to keep going back to the same companies that have, in all actuality, given us nothing of value in return. Usually their products must be dressed up with seduction and desire to reel us in and make us feel like we need their products.This will make me more beautiful!This will make me skinnier!Being skinny and beautiful will bring me more suitors!More dates means long-lasting love and devotion!Where do I sign up?It's the same cycle over and over again. Once we dig into the product, we uncover the truth. Whatever they're selling did not, in fact, bring us true worthiness, unconditional happiness, and a better life.Generally, at this point we feel crummy about ourselves. We think, "Well, the problem couldn't have been their product, so it must just be me." Guilt and shame starts to set in. Advertisers know that at the core of every human is the desire to be accepted. This is primal. We are taught that perfection equals acceptance, and we buy into it. Advertisers use this against us as often as they can. They know the power of love, desire, lust, and acceptance. I believe those are some of the key elements to their advertising blueprints.Like I said at the beginning of this chapter, some of these messages are subtle. For example, think about Disney princesses with their unrealistic waistlines and never-failing happy endings. Young girls are taught what it means to be unconditionally loved by examples, real life or not. Some of these examples include parents, television shows, ads, and of course, experiences. Disney princess movies are magical and lighthearted. It's understandable that most parents want their children to watch these consistently safe, no-parental-guidance-needed films, but these subtle expectations stick with a child throughout her life.Maybe some of these films do need parental guidance, or perhaps, parental explanations.I'm in my twenties, and I'm still trying to rework some of the beliefs that Disney put into my head. Other people are starting to recognize this problem as well. I have a great appreciation for articles such as this one that are offering a solution, even if it is temporary. I'm not saying that you should take away the magical vibes that the amazing Mister Walt has put out into our amazing universe, but I am saying that maybe Disney's unrealistic expectations and messages should be addressed.Women do not need a tiny waist in order to have their own love story. So why do they ALWAYS have a tiny waist?I believe only a few characters in Walt Disney's movies have had bigger waists, but they never held the spotlight. For example, the evil stepsisters in Cinderella had average waistlines, but they were accompanied by big noses, terrible smirks, and other less-than-attractive facial features. All of the short, chubby, or less than "perfect" characters were dwarves, godmothers, moms, sisters, or sidekicks. The princess never looks average, as far as I know.There's also never an absolutely stunning character that portrays the evil antagonist. Attractive people can be mean, too, you know. Disney makes it pretty easy to spot who is going to be the "good" girl and the "bad" girl simply based on their appearance. How misleading is this?It infuriates me. I assume some of you are nodding your heads agreeing, whereas other people are simply pondering, How else could Disney have made these movies?The answer is simple. They can create average or plus-sized princesses.They can create evil characters that don't always look like Ursula or an evil stepmother.In fact, maybe they can even have an awesome, caring stepmom to show that stepmoms rock as parents too. Disney can start to include every shape and size in its films. Period. There is no valid excuse for not doing this, but from the looks of it, they are taking their time in opening up their movies to more full-figured, short-haired, beautifully unique bodies.Another point I won't spend too much time on is the unrealistic relationships they portray between a man and his princess.Many of the beliefs we create happen when we are children, anywhere between birth and ten years old. I remember being a young child and watching these incredible relationships bloom in front of my eyes, where a man went to incredible feats to win over his lovely lady, save her from her hardships, take her far away, and cherish her with every fiber of his being.I think all of this is wonderful.Surprise!Yes, I do think that a relationship based on love is the best kind of relationship.Where Disney goes wrong is that their love is based on "love at first sight"
and looks.
To some extent, I think it's dangerous for children to grow up believing that love is instant, and if it's not instant, it's not going to lead to a magical life together. I believe that the whole damsel in distress state is a little murky as well. As a woman, I want to have my act together before opening up my life to another person. I don't believe we should be teaching young girls that we need men to save us. Marriage and relationships are partnerships. Having each other's backs when things go wrong is one thing, but needing
a man to save you from your bills, drama, loneliness, lack of ambition, and depression is an entirely different thing.Not to mention the kind of pressure this puts on our men.For example, as I was writing this chapter of my book, I spent some time researching the stereotypes my counterpart has to face. This doesn't necessarily have anything to do with Disney, per se, but you can see how they are highly involved with each other.My question goes as follows, "Men, what are some of the stereotypes you've had to face in regards to being a 'real' man? In your opinion, what does it actually mean to be a man?"The answers I received in regards to the stereotypes they have to face:"I should be able to fix things, hide my emotions, and be macho.""Having chest hair makes me a man. But shaving it or 'manscaping' doesn't—which to me is so ridiculous because for instance if shaving makes you look weak, someone go tell guys in the UFC that shaving makes them weak or not as tough.""Emotionless (or at least no vocalization of said emotions) and fixer of all things.""The need to be perfect in every way.""Men don't need comfort because they deal with their problems rather than talk about them." A man I greatly respect told me that he loves to drive a truck but, unfortunately, many people immediately label him as insecure and trying to "make up" for something the minute they see him driving a big, fast truck. "I just want to enjoy my truck!" he said.Soon after, I struck up a conversation with another man who told me about his insecurities and how he wished he would stop being judged for certain things he does and does not do. After he shared them with me, I switched gears and asked him how he felt about men that drive trucks and fast cars.He immediately exclaimed that men who drive trucks are insecure "d-bags" trying to make up for their insecurities.It's incredible how we feel like we have to meet these specific standards society puts on us, and even though we feel uncomfortable with them, we cherry-pick which ones are okay, and which ones aren't.For example, you may believe men should
be able to express their emotions and be vulnerable. But yet it's not okay to be a stay-at-home dad because that's not actually manly.Or, like the example above, you may think it should be socially acceptable to dress metrosexual and be a "real" man but yet, it's stupid to drive a fast truck because that
means you're insecure. I don't believe that Disney is the source of these stereotypes, but I believe that some of these struggles that men face on a daily basis are only reinforced in our little women of the world and vice versa. Both genders suffer from the subtle messages we receive when we're young through the media.There were an overwhelming number of responses from men that said they needed to hide their feelings, be tough, and fix everything.Isn't that the type of man that is portrayed in most movies? What about the pressure to fix everything? Isn't that what we're taught in our society— that men fix all the things?Do any of these movies ever teach us that it's okay for men to be completely vulnerable, open, honest, sensitive, and even scared?Men deal with stereotypes and pressures just like women do. The reason I decided to spend an entire chapter writing about this is because many of our beliefs about life, love, and the pursuit of happiness come from what we're taught as children.Movies are a huge source of entertainment and education for our society, as we can now collectively realize, and therefore these are the types of issues that need to be brought to the table.I truly believe most women don't care what kind of car a man drives- or if he has big muscles, shows sensitivity, wears flannel, has a beard, or abstains from all mistakes.Many women want a real man with depth.In the same way, many men could care less if a woman is skinny, has perfectly polished nails, long hair, and a fake tan.These superficial qualities steal away a lot of our time, money, and energy because we think that's
what our opposites want. The point of this chapter is to introduce you to one thing that could have potentially goofed with your head, and to get you to begin thinking about where your own body image struggles may have originated.It might not have been Disney or movies in general, but it's good to be aware of out-of-the-box roots for some of the emotional trials you have been facing in your dieting and fitness obsessions, as well as your inner perfectionist.More than that, it's good to be aware of these societal pressures on future generations.It may be worth having a conversation with your children about movies, stereotypes, men, and one day, sex.Just please don't leave it up to the media to teach them how to go about love. Help them create their own values and morals.ACTION STEP: If you would like to learn more about male stereotypes, gender roles, Disney, women presidents, and other social matters, check out THIS podcast of mine with sexuality educator, body image and eating disorder activist, and media literacy vlogger Melissa A. Fabello. 







Chapter Elevenback to topI have a bone to pick. It's a movement that I think is keeping people stuck in a dangerous cycle dressed up with the word fit.By now, I bet you've most likely heard the popular phrase "strong is the new skinny."I'm guessing a warm and fuzzy feeling rippled through your heart when you heard this for the first time. Yes, you thought. A new movement that celebrates feminine strength, not skin and bones!I don't blame you for immediately seeing the bright side of this movement.At first glance, the phrase is a breath of fresh air. At second glance, though, a few questions may arise.Well, my daughter is naturally skinny. Are people going to be prejudiced towards her?Or maybe you're thinking about your own body. I've always been skinny. I can't help it. I try and try to gain weight but it never works. What am I supposed to do now if I can't build visible muscles?Why don't we have a popular motto yet that includes every single body type? Something along the lines of . . .  "Beautiful is YOUR body!" It's because a phrase like "Beautiful is YOUR body!" isn't nearly as seductive as "strong is the new skinny," due to one powerful component: comparison.Comparing one body to another gets us every time. We always want to be a part of the self-righteous clan. We want to be grouped in with the other people that have the new popular body. We want a reason to feel special.If you really think about the phrase "strong is the new skinny," it's actually pretty obvious why this isn't a healthy way to view bodies.The pressure to be thin has been a problem for America for decades, and if "strength" is the new skinny, then that simply means being strong is the new standard.There's an entirely new preferable body shape. And that's not the only problem with the phrase.The second reason why this strength standard isn't beneficial is because the minute you Google search it, images of women with no body fat pop up.From here forth, I'm going to use the word "lean" to describe these women. In case you're not too familiar with the verbiage, lean simply means having a body that's low in body fat. When you search the term "fitness" on Pinterest, what do you typically see?Lean women?Type fitness into your Google search bar and you get an image over and over. Not a physical measurement of capabilities, strength, and power, but an image of a body shape.As if fitness is a look. Not a life.While there are good things about "strong is the new skinny," these images completely defeat the point (and even reverse it to some extent).The photos that normally linger behind these fitness quotes have absolutely nothing to do with strength. These women may not be skinny, but would you believe me if I told you that they're not guaranteed to be strong either?What if I told you that for those photo shoots, those women were most likely at their absolute weakest? You most likely already know that much of advertising is a lie. Advertisers are paid millions of dollars for a reason—you have to be good at your craft to be able to convince someone to believe whatever you want them to.To get an entire generation on board, you have to take things to a whole different level.When weight lifting and body acceptance for women started to gain momentum, the media decided to use this shift to their advantage. I imagine the conversation went something like this,"Okay, so maybe skinny is old news. Let's make strength appeal to the public (because let's be honest, that won't be too tough) . . . but let's dress it up with the same supermodel body we used for our other ads.""We'll get women with a little more muscle, but they'll be just as lean. We'll call it . . . strength. And fitness! Yeah, that sounds good."Same body, different marketing.Hey, if it isn't broke, why fix it?The last reason why I don't necessarily agree with this phrase is that, what if somebody doesn't want to be strong? I mean, seriously. Different people have different desires.You may absolutely love lifting weights, doing yoga, running, or rock climbing but your neighbor may really enjoy knitting, volunteering at soup kitchens, and studying for her PhD. Does she deserve to feel any less worthy than those that work on their bodies in the gym?Did Mother Theresa lift, bro?Is one body superior to another just because it spends its time differently?Strength, regardless of how it is portrayed in these ads, is great for those that desire it. On the other hand, it's poisonous to those that do not desire it. In the same way that being thin is really hard for somebody who has voluptuous genetics, being strong and spending time in the gym shaping muscles is emotionally stressful for somebody who would rather spend their days with their head in a book.Neither passion is better. Even if you think weight lifting is the best thing in the entire world, it simply does not mean that it is for everybody, period.Body hierarchy is all over social media, and I'd love to nip it in the bud before more women and men try to mold themselves into something they are not, all for the sake of "fitting" in with the other bodies deemed superior.The first step is to be able to recognize degrading phrases like this when they first arise. It's easy to join in with the rest of the world, whereas it's really hard to refuse the crowd and go your own way.It's no secret that hurting your body day after day with rituals, diets, and obsessive weight-loss goals all in the name of "fitness" isn't really fitness.It's not health.It's not body acceptance.It's more of the same thing we're trying to avoid. I am not the type of body advocate who promotes health as a woman in a sports bra. I mean, you can totally wear a sports bra, but what you look like in that bra is irrelevant when it comes to how healthy you are.Nutrition is not eating a salad. You can love salads, but that still doesn't make you healthy.Fitness modeling is not strength.Strong is not the new skinny.Bodies, new or old, are bodies. Period. There's no new standard or measurement.I have found that once you can truly approach health without prejudice, you can finally eat, move, and live the way that feels good to you.I have given up prejudice—have you? 







Chapter Twelveback to topOne of the most difficult social factors people face when they experience
any kind of transformation is a comparison to their former selves."Wow, you look so much healthier." "You're radiating. When did you lose all that weight?""You're so fit!""You're beautiful!"At the beginning, the attention is always exciting—it's new, foreign and intoxicating. Who could blame you? You're receiving positive affirmation for your hard-earned work and, naturally, the recognition feels good. We human folk have a primal desire to be accepted and acknowledged. In many cultures, if you aren't accepted into a tribe, you are left out in the cold to starve and die without shelter.We crave acceptance. Our innate status of survival depends on it. Unfortunately, these surface-level compliments become a problem when two things happen. First, it's a problem when you identify yourself as the girl (or guy) with the weight-loss story. If your identity is found within your image, you could be headed down a very dark path. What happens ten years down the road? Or twenty? Are you still holding onto that story because you believe your identity is found within those forgotten pounds?Second, it becomes a problem when your happiness is conditional—when you're not happy unless somebody compliments your body. It's an issue when your attitude is affected negatively if you aren't given recognition on a day-to-day basis and you feel that your self-worth has decreased. Some days it's just not in the cards!What's wrong with me?Did I not wear the right outfit?Have I put on weight? When was the last time I stepped on a scale?I know what it's like to become dependent on compliments for self-worth and happiness.I remember when I was unhealthily thin—people complimented my body all the time. They had no clue the torment I was experiencing, because they were only conditioned to see weight loss and think success.Soon enough, I started to receive compliments daily! It was intoxicating. People were noticing my efforts and the temporary ego stroke suddenly made all of the sacrifices worth it.But . . . once I finally regained my health and put on a little bit of body fat, the compliments disappeared. Nobody knew that I was a fitness competitor or model because I was no longer a walking, talking lean machine. I looked healthy (and average) once I started focusing on the important things in life.And at first, this was tough.I'm not going to lie.My worth was found in my body. For so long, my body was me, and those superficial compliments had me coming back for more. Every Instagram "like" and Facebook "follow" contributed to my egotistical desire to be accepted and admired.Compliments (either verbal or on social media) were cues to keep pushing to be leaner and leaner.Once the compliments disappeared, I thought to myself, Who am I without my leanness? Where will I get more of these compliment thingies?I questioned my self-worth . . . tremendously.Eventually, I came to terms with the fact that I had an addiction to labels. I so badly wanted others to know me for something I did, whether it was eating like a vegetarian or vegan, or being a Paleo expert, a bodybuilder, a model, and so on. There was always something I was working towards.For example, over the years I worked obsessively on my glutes trying to create a fitness-model-worthy booty. Once I finally created the butt that I so badly desired, I felt more chained to it than I have ever felt chained to anything in my life.Family members told me all the time how impressed they were by my "crazy" glutes. Social media followers asked me "How? How? How!?" and I frequently found myself gazing admiringly in the mirror at my progress thus far while still thinking longingly about how far I was from my goal booty, of course.Nonetheless, this butt was not natural for me.It's not the butt I was given by the good Lord, and it was certainly not going to stay forever.I mean, we all die, regardless, so I definitely didn't expect to keep it forever. But I had to face the fact that if I really wanted to keep up with my perfect glutes, I would need to diet consistently enough to keep up with the symmetrical curvature, as well as keep up with my weekly squat sessions, carving out at least an hour a day for post-lifting stair sprints.It was a lot of work to keep them in this condition.And all for what? I had to ask myself this question time and time again.What's my why?Where does my motivation come from?For a while, I thought that my motivation came from the possibility of getting picked up by some big name fitness brand for modeling.I thought that possibility was around the corner. I just needed a few more freelance modeling gigs and then—BOOM!—I would be discovered.But then what?What would happen if I did finally get that gig?Would I finally love myself? Would I feel free? Would I feel alive?Or maybe, just maybe, I would be in a contract with my butt for all of eternity. Slaving away at the curvature, symmetry, and divineness of an imperfect trivial body part that I was too shy to show off anyway.Why was I so fixated on creating and keeping my butt looking this particular way? Really, what was it?Like I said earlier, I was obsessed with being known for something. Though I typically found my worth and recognition within my dieting habits, my body was just the same. I labeled myself as "bad" or "lazy" depending on how much physical progress I made with my aesthetics, how many workouts I did per week, how many cardio sessions I endured instead of socializing, and how many likes I got on my Instagram post-squatting photos.It was a dangerous cycle.After my second fitness competition, I had a very clear moment where my future flashed in front of my eyes while relaxing post-show in my hotel room.I saw myself, old and grey, still obsessed with my body—yet my body wasn't perfect anymore. It was old. It was wrinkly.So what was left?Nothing.I was old and alone because I never gave myself the opportunity to fall in love. I only loved my body, and once my body lost its ability to stay in prime lean condition, I went indoors to hide away. That's where my future was headed. After my competition, I knew something really needed to change. I needed to start somewhere, and I needed to start soon.That particular bodybuilding show left me more depressed and frustrated than the first. No amount of physical perfection was enough.I remember doing an exercise in that hotel bed. I closed my eyes and imagined what my funeral would be like if I died the following day. I thought about what my friends and family would say about the life I lived.They would all talk about how incredibly wonderful I was at clean eating and how I had more self-discipline that anyone else they knew, never missing a workout or spin class. They would talk of how I never let anything get in between my workouts and me.They wouldn't talk about how many people I'd helped.They wouldn't talk about the life-changing conversations we had.They wouldn't talk about how I opened up their eyes to a new perspective in life.Deep down, the thought of not making the world a better place made me shudder. I knew I was meant for something more than working out and clean eating. I knew that my body would someday turn to dust, so why was I spending so much time trying to perfect it?If you're currently obsessed with your body image, I implore you to do the same exercise.If you died tomorrow, what would you be known for?What do you want to be known for?Eventually, I let go of that perfectly shaped booty. I let go of the labels, the self-image, and the strict workout routines that I was chained to. Yes, I lost the glutes I had worked so hard for, but as a result, I gained freedom within my body.  







Chapter Thirteenback to topWhen I began to let my body take its natural shape, I found my happiness.I allowed myself to adopt an entirely new perspective on life. I didn't want to feel like my future was only ever going to be about maintaining a physical standard of "perfection" (especially considering perfection doesn't even exist), and once I finally came to terms with the fact that there was more to life than my body, doors started to open. My intuition started to come out to play. Relationships started to bloom.But more than anything, I was finally happy. With each and every passing day, I was faced with more challenges. It's not easy to ignore advertisements, marketing, and messages that make you feel like you're not enough. It's also not easy to figure out your purpose when you're used to spending so much time doing something that goes against your calling. But learning to resist these messages is necessary if you want to thrive in your already beautiful body. Strength is a requirement for standing up against societal pressures.I knew that if I wanted to start living with a purpose, I would need to trim the fat off of certain areas of my life. I knew that while I was ready to make a huge change in my life, the rest of the world wasn't going to be on board.Even though I could finally call out the fitness industry on their lies, that didn't mean the rest of the world could.I finally understood that the more I chased after "health" and "fitness," the unhealthier I became. I
knew that fitness didn't mean health. But what about everybody else? Did they know? Could I ever expect them to know?I needed to create my own definition of health—one that didn't rely on body fat or weight, but revolved around happiness, intuition, and feeling good.I knew that the environment I was currently living in was poisonous to me. My fitness friends were unhealthy, my social media world was really obsessive, and my toxic mind-set wasn't going to get any better if I didn't change my entire lifestyle.For the next year, I started making a lot of little changes.Though these changes were small, they were significant to my self-discovery process.If I had to pinpoint one particular thing that put me on the right path, I would have to say it came down to gratitude.Gratitude, like I said before, didn't come easy for me.I'm not exactly sure why I struggled with gratitude, but I assume it's because I always had the "grass is always greener on the other side" attitude. I assumed that if I had the perfect body, my life would be better . . . or at least appear better to the outside world.For the next year, I set out to experience more gratitude for ordinary circumstances. I wanted to feel grateful for the body I currently had instead of this made-up body that would never exist. I mean, seriously. I was down to 6 percent body fat and still wasn't content with my weight loss. Something needed to change!So I began to create new habits.One of them was my Gratitude and Intention Jar. I had a jar in the kitchen that I'd drop a piece of paper into every day with my intention for the day and what I was grateful for that morning.For example, some days my intention was to spend less time on social media, and my daily gratitude was dedicated to my precious dog for always keeping me company. Sometimes I was grateful for having a safe roof over my head. Other days, I was grateful for smaller things like the ability to go to the grocery store any time I wanted, or having cable for days I absolutely needed that relaxing downtime. This is a small practice, I know. At the same time, it's a huge one.Huge.Once I started working my gratitude muscle again, it became easier and easier. Soon enough, I started to channel my gratitude towards my body.I was grateful for the ability to sleep in my safe little home of flesh. I was grateful for my ability to walk around the neighborhood.The more I thought about it, the more I realized it's actually pretty incredible that I have a safe little home to shelter my heart, muscles, lungs, and stomach. I have a body that is always fighting for my safety.You do too.Your body will always fight for you. It will heal when it is broken. It will cool you off when it is hot. It will ache when you eat something harmful. It will put you to rest when it's time to sleep.Your body has your back more than you have its back. But it's not too late to turn that around. In fact, it's never too late.One small thing you can begin today as you work towards a better body image is your Gratitude and Intention Jar.Go to Hobby Lobby, Michaels, or some other craft store and buy yourself a cute little mason jar (or a cookie jar because cookies) and then get to work decorating that bad boy.Buy some ribbon to wrap around the top, get some paint markers, and then of course, pick out some beautiful paper that inspires you.Spend some time decorating your jar so that every morning when you look at it, you're automatically put in a good mood. Keep the paper close by the jar for easy access and begin each day by writing down your two missions for the day. Where can you experience the most gratitude in the day?Where can your intentions be best placed?If you have specific goals for the week or month, make your intentions align with that goal. These mini steps will help you reach your goals much more quickly than if you were to walk aimlessly throughout your day with your goals out of sight and out of mind.In regards to gratitude, I've already made it pretty clear that a little gratitude goes a long way. If you can find one thing about your body that you are grateful for right now, you're already winning.Are you grateful that you have eyes to read this book? A stomach that can digest scrumptious ice cream bowls? A pair of hands that can touch your lover?There's a lot of good stuff going on that you can be grateful for if you only take a second to appreciate it. The moment I started to train this gratitude muscle, more good things came my way.During my darkest days, I was living in a city in Texas. I picked up and moved to Colorado for a job opportunity that seemed very promising.I believe that my first year living in Colorado was my most significant.Within this year, I learned a great many things, thanks to gratitude.Colorado is vastly different from Texas so my eyes were constantly being opened up to new opportunities and activities to fill my life with. I felt like I was given a second chance to truly live.For a long time, I had to force myself to break out. There was a point where I made myself stop reading nutrition articles, exercise theories, bio-hacking research, and all of the stuff that was once so important to me.I forced myself to not enter a gym for an entire month.It wasn't easy, but when you think about it, does anything truly worth it come easily? If I wanted to be able to fully take advantage of the beauty my new home had to offer me, I needed to work on cultivating body respect regardless of what I ate that day or how many times I worked out that week.Forcing myself to avoid a gym for an entire month helped me to get creative. I started to take walks, hikes, bike rides, and even found myself a new passion—rock climbing.Very quickly, a domino effect occurred. I had free time to start meeting people for coffee and drinks, I had more time to read fiction (something I always loved!), I had more time to find out what I really wanted to eat based on intuition and not just what post-workout meal would be optimal for however I'd trained that day.I freed up a lot of mental space by eliminating the gym from my life. I mean a lot.I had time to imagine, to love, to cry, and to feel.I started feeling things I hadn't allowed myself to feel for a long time.Like freedom.That was new. I also took time off from the social media world. I stopped talking about fitness, nutrition, and food. I don't think I took a single picture of my food for three months (almost unheard of in my generation!) but I knew I was wasting too much time online, worried about what people thought of me, searching for validation.I was never going to figure out my purpose if I had too many conditional factors trying to decide that for me. These changes, plus many more, are what eventually led me to unconditional body respect and the end of my life as a fitness model. 







Chapter Fourteenback to topWhile I could write an entire book on my post-competition triumphs and how my move to Colorado changed my life completely (and I probably will), the purpose of this book was to give you insight into the crazy world of fitness competitions and the unhealthy habits happening behind the scenes.There's nothing healthy about being lean beyond your body's natural desire. If it were healthy, you'd already look like that right now and you wouldn't have to make any sacrifices for it! Bad things start to happen when you force your body to go into unnatural states for the sake of body image. And you have to continue doing bad things to your body in order to stay there.The truth is, once you start to focus on the important things in life, such as relationships, sleep, nourishment, your career, passions, books you love, music that makes you feel alive, people that make you feel warm, and the riches of our beautiful planet, well, everything falls into place.Food no longer rules your life because only your life governs your life. Body image is no longer something you fixate on when you're anxious. You are creating the life you want, head on.There are ups and downs, and yeah, there will be some days where you don't feel comfortable in your skin. But there's always an underlying factor or a reason why, and it usually has nothing to do with your actual body.All I ask is that you remember what the trade-off would be if you acted on your fixation and set out to change your body to meet society's unrealistic expectations. Remember that the other side is not greener. Life is not magically better when you're leaner, especially since you may have to give up everything else in order to stay that way.Wouldn't it be easier to just go eat a piece of cake with a person that's important to you and create a new memory?Food doesn't have to control you anymore. Body image doesn't have to rule your life.Your body is always fighting for you. It wants to keep you safe, it wants to give you enough fat to protect your organs, and it wants to give you the necessary bodily functions you need to thrive. I want to equip you with information about "the other side" so you know what you could lose if you gain that body.Of course, my story isn't the same as everybody's. I know that some people can model and lose weight without having to go to extremes. That's awesome!I know some people eat low-carbohydrate and low-fat diets, yet they don't have to make any sacrifices in order to do so. There are some people that naturally have six-packs and toned legs, and that's perfectly fine too. They don't have to make sacrifices in order to have those things, which is why it works for them.Just because one person's health looks one way doesn't mean your health looks the same.It's your turn to define what health means to you. Does it mean a six-pack? Does it mean ideal aesthetics, even if they require you to suffer?Or does it mean nourishing your body with food, movement, love, sunlight, passion, and sleep? Either way, this is your own life so the choice is yours.I hold absolutely no judgment towards anyone that chooses the former path because if that's what you want then that's what you want!If that's not the path you want for your life, where can you start experiencing gratitude?Move forward in your life with confidence. Know that your body is absolutely stunning as it is right now. It's truly amazing. It's strong. It's exactly how it should be.Use your body as a tool to maneuver around this wonderful world. It's a vehicle for your soul. How incredible is that?Because of your body's unique design, your soul has the capability to truly find out what makes it feel alive.Always keep in mind . . .Some day your body is going to turn to dust.Poof. Gone.Are you sure you want to spend so much time on it when you can be changing the world instead? 







The Next Stepback to topReady to take the next step? Hungry for more body image insight?I've created a free self-love "how-to" guide, which you can grab from my website.Download 10 Proven Steps for Ending Any Diet Obsession here: Get My Free Guide 







Share the Loveback to topThank you so much for investing your time into this book. If sharing my story has helped you in some way, please take a moment to write a review on Amazon. Each review helps my book extend its reach and lets me tell others about unconditional body respect. I believe all of us could use more of that in our lives! Thank you so much! 







About the Authorback to topMadelyn Moon spent the last several years training for fitness competitions and modeling photo shoots, only to come to the conclusion that obsessing over food and her body was taking her further away from her passion, not closer. Today, Maddy Moon teaches other women and men how to take control of their relationship with food while enjoying every minute of their newfound freedom.Madelyn is the host of the Mind Body Musings Podcast and the creator of the site, maddymoon.com. Her work has been featured in the Huffington Post, MindBodyGreen, Paleo Magazine, and Breaking Muscle. She graduated from the University of Texas in Austin and the Institute for Integrative Nutrition and currently resides in Colorado, coaching clients online.







Table of ContentsConfessions of a Fitness ModelForewordChapter OneChapter TwoChapter ThreeChapter FourChapter FiveChapter SixChapter SevenChapter EightChapter NineChapter TenChapter ElevenChapter TwelveChapter ThirteenChapter FourteenThe Next StepShare the LoveAbout the Author















