



























Hay House Publishers (India) Pvt. Ltd.
Muskaan Complex, Plot No.3, B-2 Vasant Kunj, New Delhi-110 070, India
Hay House Inc., PO Box 5100, Carlsbad, CA 92018-5100, USA
Hay House UK, Ltd., Astley House, 33 Notting Hill Gate, London W11 3JQ, UK
Hay House Australia Pty Ltd., 18/36 Ralph St., Alexandria NSW 2015, Australia
Hay House SA (Pty) Ltd., PO Box 990, Witkoppen 2068, South Africa
Hay House Publishing, Ltd., 17/F, One Hysan Ave., Causeway Bay, Hong Kong
Raincoast, 9050 Shaughnessy St., Vancouver, BC V6P 6E5, Canada
Email: contact@hayhouse.co.in
www.hayhouse.co.in
Copyright © 2017 Srimanju Katragadda
First reprint 2017
The views and opinions expressed in this book are the author's own and the facts are as reported by her. They have been verified to the extent possible, and the publishers are not in any way liable for the same.
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, by any mechanical, photographic, or electronic process, or in the form of a phonographic recording, nor may it be stored in a retrieval system, transmitted, or otherwise be copied for public or private use - other than for "fair use" as brief quotations embodied in articles and reviews - without prior written permission of the publisher.
The author of this book does not dispense medical advice or prescribe the use of any technique as a form of treatment for physical, emotional, or medical problems without the advice of a physician, either directly or indirectly. The intent of the author is only to offer information of a general nature to help you in your quest for emotional and spiritual well-being. In the event you use any of the information in this book for yourself - which is your constitutional right - the author and the publisher assume no responsibility for your actions.
ISBN 978-9385827-33-4
ISBN 978-93- 85827-34-1 (e-book)
Printed and bound at
Rajkamal Electric Press, Sonipat, Haryana (India)







Tomy darling daughters, Ishitha and Taanvi, who are my spiritual teachers and guides in my life. Whose presence revealed my own Inner Guide connections. My husband, Bharath for showing me unconditional love and teaching me many lessons.







CONTENTS
Introduction
The Journey of a Soul with 7 Sutras
Sutra 1Switch On the Soul Light
1. Triggers of Consciousness Awareness
2. Why Do We Need to Deal with Awakening?
3. How to Deal with Wake-up Calls
4. Expect the Unexpected
5. Acceptance
6. Self-knowingness
7. Boundaries
Sutra 2Gratitude
1. Being Thankful
2. Silence
3. Ask and It Is Given
4. Change the Thoughts
5. The Universe Supports You
6. Inner Power
7. Self-realisation
Sutra 3Love is Above All
1. Shine Your Love
2. Self-care
3. The Power of Words
4. Bird's-eye View of Life
5. Beauty Of Saying No
6. Kindness
7. Karma
Sutra 4Intuition to Knowingness
1. Intuitions
2. Trust
3. Challenges
4. Fear
5. Spreading Your Wings
6. Expectations
7. Turn Your Lights
Sutra 5Forgiveness
1. Letting Go
2. Prayers
3. Balance
4. Alignment to Source
5. Grounding
6. Peace
7. Thinking is Believing
Sutra 6The Inner Child Healing
1. Hear Your Inner Child
2. Be Present
3. Oneness
4. Learning
5. Faith
6. Life is Magic
7. Happiness
Sutra 7Creativeness
1. Colour Your Life
2. Creative Self
3. Don't Compare
4. Life is Not Perfect
5. Inwards Journey
6. Soul Purpose
7. Find The Tribe
Open Up
Follow Me
Acknowledgements







INTRODUCTION

'If you want to awaken all of humanity, then awaken all of yourself. If you want to eliminate the suffering in the world, then eliminate all that is dark and negative in yourself. Truly, the greatest gift you have to give is that of your own self-transformation.'

— Lao Tzu
We all have an inner guide. As we grow up, we fail to use it or even realise it exists. Some name it inner knowing, gut feeling, or intuition. But few have the power to listen to it and know what is right or wrong for their own happiness.
Connect to Your Inner Guide is a book that will connect you to your soul journey, to gain wisdom and understanding of your soul's mission. It is a bridge that forms and fills the gaps that have been lost since birth. It will help you explore and recognise your passions and creative drive as the voice of your inner guide. It is a New Age book for anyone who needs a little reassurance and encouragement to lead a life of joyfulness and satisfaction.
There is no turning back once you turn on your lights. It takes time and patience, but you get to live with the real you. I will be sharing in this book tools and techniques that helped me in my life and may help provoke within you a thought or an idea to move toward the spotlight of your life. These skills are drawn from my own experience and have worked for my students and clients for many years.
It is about you right now. It is okay to give time to yourself. The universe is supporting you. The reason you are holding this is book is a sign to wake up. One of the missions of my life is to reach out to as many people as possible to reinforce that there is light at the end of the tunnel. It is important to remember that nothing is static. Things only come to us at the right time. Not before or after.
We look for 'home' when we are in discomfort—either physical, emotional, or spiritual. Until we find our perfect home, we are like lost souls.
In this book, I share the seven sutras to the journey of awakening that I personally experienced. I also draw on some texts that inspired me from the Bhagavad Gita and ACIM (A Course in Miracles) that I have been learning and implementing in my life. These are my own interpretations that I consider as answers to all the questions of the soul. By finding your inner guide and connecting with yourself, you will improve your relationship with your own soul. You will achieve your soul purpose and connect to the soul path. Self-blame will turn into self-love. You will find your true self with your inner guide.
I am laying out practices and perspectives that you can use starting right now, to live with more purpose, fulfilment, and joy. Spiritual process is not a step backward. It is a leap forward.
No matter where you are in your life, you can always start at any point and then head to where you want to be. It is your right and you can do it. Only you are meant to be doing the task of listening to your own inner guide. This book is for anyone who wants to create a positive change in their life. If you're stressed, anxious, fearful, stuck, or simply ready to know the highest mission in your life, this book is for you. If you have the slightest willingness to feel connected to your inner guide, this book is for you. It doesn't matter where you are on your spiritual path. We are all on a mission.







THE JOURNEY OF A SOUL WITH 7 SUTRAS

To begin, with there are 7 major chakras that most of the holistic methods teach about and mention in spiritual awakening. A lot of people in spiritual awakening wear 7 chakra pendants and other jewellery symbolising the stones and its effects on one's soul journey. The number 7 is the foundation of God's word. 7 is the number of completeness that represents divine perfection (both physical and spiritual), totality, or completion and is mentioned, at least, 490 times in the Bible. Number 7 is also a symbolic representation of the earthly place. As per Hinduism, we are in the middle plane, which is the earth. We all have 7 auric layers around our physical bodies that connect to these planes. Do you call all these to be coincidences? Or maybe it was the plan of the universe to function in synchronicity around the number 7?
More mentions of 7 are in the flames of fire (agni); when we look at epics, we see the Sun God (Surya Bhagwan) riding on 7 horses, each corresponding to the 7 days of the week. In the Tantric scriptures, there is also mention about the 7 energy forms for the Goddess energies. Moreover, there are 7 musical notes, too. When a Hindu marriage is being performed, the bride and bridegroom walk 7 steps around the fire. Which bonds them for 7 lifetimes. In India, there are 7 major rivers, 7 major sacred places, and 7 major holy cities.
The Book of Genesis, which is the first book of the Bible, starts with the creation of the world. God is the creator of our world and by the 7th day, God had completed the work he had been doing. So, on the 7th day, he stopped working on everything that he had done. Hence, we hear God created the universe in 7 days.
From an astrological point of view, 7 deals with magical forces. 7 deals with mysterious, intellectual aspects of magic. It even deals with the activation of imagination and manifesting results in our lives through the use of conscious thought and awareness. Ruled by Saturn, 7 can represent impractical dreaming, but with a deeper understanding of the aspect of 7, you can quite deftly utilise its magical vibration to your own benefit.
In Hinduism, sutra denotes a distinct type of literary composition, a compilation of short aphoristic statements. And here is what we have—the 7 sutras.
There could be different ways for it and you could be at a different part of the cycle. Just evaluate yourself emotionally, physically, and spiritually before noticing where you are drawn to the cycle and go with the flow. There is nothing wrong in starting at sutra 6 or sutra 1. It is what your IG© is calling in for. Just go with the flow.
What is IG© [Inner Guide]
Inner Guide, in short IG©, is nothing but your gut sense, your angels, your spirit guide, or your God. If you believe in none of these, then it is your higher power, higher self, or energy. It can mean anything to you. So far, what I have gathered after speaking to people from different religions, ethnicities, backgrounds, communities, atheists, and spiritualists, all points to them believing in 'something' and this something is what I call IG©.
We all have one. Yes, we do. We ask for miracles and when we see a sign we say, 'Someone is looking after us.' Who is that showered love on us, who cared? Spirits, passed away loved ones, or guardian angels—no one knows who it might be. But I was always taught that there is a bigger form watching us all and looking after us. And yes, this is where we are all connected to each other. Just like the rays of sun and its only one planet that shines. And we all get to see different rays depending on location, time, area etc. The only thing new is you finding out about that something. Like nothing›s really new, but you reinvent it for yourself and find your IG©.
We are one. We are love. We are connected.

Your time is limited, so don't waste it living someone else's life. Don't be trapped by dogma—which is living with the results of other people's thinking. Don't let the noise of others' opinions drown out your own inner voice. And most important, have the courage to follow your heart and intuition.
— Steve Jobs








Sutra 1
SWITCH ON THE SOUL LIGHT

His high endeavours are an inward light That makes the path before him always bright.

— William Wordsworth








1
TRIGGERS OF CONSCIOUSNESS AWARENESS

'You are accepted. You are accepted, accepted by that which is greater than you, and the name of which you do not know. Do not ask for the name now; perhaps you will find it later. Do not try to do anything now; perhaps later you will do much. Do not seek for anything; do not perform anything; do not intend anything. Simply accept the fact that you are accepted!'

— Paul Tillich
Often, when we wake up, the first thing we do is switch on the light. After we are awake, we become aware of our surroundings and ourselves, how our bodies are feeling and what our minds are thinking about.
So, in everyday mechanical life, everything begins with an awakening that leads to awareness. I want us to begin our journey together by considering how we can become truly awake and alive to all our possibilities, and how that awakening can lead to true awareness.
Awakening, in simple terms, means a realization of a sacred dimension of reality. It is a terminology mostly used in a spiritual context. Consciousness is key to spiritual transformation.
There can be small awakenings and bigger awakenings. It is different for each individual. For me, it happened in small progressive steps rather than all in one big awakening where I woke up and solved all the problems in my life.
Flower Opening
I see the awakening process like the bud of a flower that is opening. As the days go by, if it has the right care and nourishment, the bud will slowly open up petal by petal until it fully blooms and only when ready can it bring fragrance and radiance to the garden.
From my own experience I have noticed a similar process. Just as some buds don't open up, some souls don't go through this awakening process as part of their life package. That's okay. That was the choice that they made before the birthing process. When we look at our friends or family members, we think why do they not get this simple logic? It is because they are not meant to.
On the other hand, awareness means having knowledge or perception of a situation or fact such as thoughts, emotions, and the body. We become more and more aware in our awakening stages just by noticing, slowing down, and observing, as we become more sensitive to what is happening around us.
These awareness awakening stages that I am sharing here can help you, as you read this chapter, to acknowledge and sense where you are and will be or could be in the future depending on your life path.
We are all unique and beautiful. The universe has taken time creating us with love and that is what makes each individual special and amazing. We are good as we are and just perfect as should be.
As part of growing up in India, we were taught that Brahma the Creator created us all with love and just love. But we made our free will as well so we each have our own baggage and we can know ourselves and learn from this baggage. Always remember we are perfect as we should be as per our own choice.
Choices
Each of us have made a choice, to pick our own Life Universities. But over a lifetime, we forget this as we get buried deeper and deeper under problems and challenges.
Awakening is like peeling an onion, taking the layers off to get to the sweetest bit in the middle. Just like chopping onions makes us cry, the unwrapping of these spiritual layers can bring in the same roller coaster of havoc in oneself. But, be assured, the best will often come out after that havoc. As you start shedding each layer, you are bound to feel awkward and uncomfortable before you get to the best bit.
The technique that I use is to think of the happy things in your life and to show gratitude for each layer being shed. I see it as constant progress for our development. Surely, you would like to find something new in yourself and learn new things about yourself every day where no one else defines us. This is the magic of life.
Do you remember playing pass-the-parcel game as a child? As each child gets the parcel, they get excited unwrapping the layers on their turn. They all visualise that they are going to win. But then, they have to turn around and pass the parcel and wait for their turn again to unwrap the present. There is that hope and excitement that makes them continue the game. It's the same excitement we go through when we unwrap our spiritual closet layers. At each stage, we are closer to the truth of our soul lessons.
When we love someone, we always try to see the relationship improving, bringing more happiness, and opening up to be more connected with each other. Similar changes happen when the process of awakening is happening. You find yourself more lovable; you find new things about yourself that may have been hidden in a beautiful treasure box, or bring in fond memories of your past.
Be warned. You are going to fall in love with yourself all over again. The treasure you find in yourself will make you accept and love yourself.

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
As a baby, we loved ourselves so much that we enjoyed licking our own tiny feet. There is no term as 'dislike' or 'not good enough' for a baby. Babies are always radiant and shining love to others. You always get unconditional love from them and when the baby holds your fingers tight, they make you feel like you mean everything to them. Even if you are a stranger to them. They connect to your inner guide. There is no language required for the soul talk that takes place.
Only as we grow up do we start accepting ourselves as others see us. We mend and change in response to our parents, siblings, friends, and society. We used to love our own selves unconditionally before the veil appeared. It is a fact you need to know. Realisation will happen even if we don't act on it now. Timing is everything.








2
WHY DO WE NEED TO DEAL WITH AWAKENING?

'The first step toward change is always awareness. The second step is acceptance.'

— Nathaniel Branden
For any change to happen in life, we need to be aware of what is happening to us and what can lead to acceptance. There is no time limit to when it can begin or how we can find our place in time and motion. It is a constant flow of rhythms that take place in our lives.
As humans, we tend to want to lock them up. But that has no meaning for our soul. There is no time or space to measure our soul's growth. Awareness can be recognised by all our 5 senses-touch, smell, taste, sight, and hearing.
None of these senses are set in a fixed order of priority because each one of us is different. Below are a few typical experiences that I discovered in myself and sensed over a long period of time:

Loss of interest in food or flavour
Increased sensitivity to foods and new unpredictable food intolerances
 Digestion problems
Major life changes, job loss, broken marriage or relationships, health scares
Sleeplessness, often being awake at nearly the same time, between 3 and 4 am

Shift Happening
Once we are aware that there is a change or shift happening, we need to realise it and accept the circumstances. It is okay to be different, as each of us have our own unique gifts and talents. No two fingers on our own body are the same, so this is what we've got, and let's start by accepting ourselves. It is okay to be the different one in the herd or not fit in a box. We can always remake the box.
The beauty of acceptance lies within us, not outside. The thing that stays with us is our own self. So there is really no point in hiding or running away from ourselves. In a way, self-acceptance led me to open up my chakras and intuition as well. As I was letting go of my outer limiting beliefs, it became so easy to connect to my inner power. It is an amazing and unique feeling to connect to your inner power, and this connects to 'I AM' consciousness. Yes, we are part of the universe's creation, just as everyone else is. The only difference is the way we grew up and the life challenges we faced. It is the same source we are all coming from.
The sun is shining and beaming millions of rays around the universe and the globe. We are all a part of it and connected to the same source of power. No one is truly small or big, rich or poor, good or bad. It is just a question of the situation or circumstances that have made us what we are. Awareness comes from being in the 'now' moment.
As Eckhart Tolle mentions, 'Everything is happening now. If you blink you miss it... You missed it forever.'
There is No Undoing the Past
The only way to go back is through being in the now and learning to be at peace with the past. Many mornings I would wake up and wish it was a bad dream. But, in fact, I had to find my own truth and live it and make it right so I could redo it again. But that work had to be wholly done by me and no one else. That was a hard fact to have to face.
I used to wonder why this injustice was happening to me until, at last, I connected to my inner truth and looked outside from the perspective that we are all human beings learning our own lessons in this big university we call earth. We can graduate and leave the space and, sometimes, to do a multiple master's degree, we choose to come back again and again. This eternity never ends until our soul is satisfied and no one has ever timed that process or been there and returned. That is the beauty of the universe which preserves its magic and sparkle for our curiosity.
There are no coincidences in the universe. It is just the right timing of what must be revealed. That is what I believe. The magic is just unreal. Love the path you are on and when these synchronicities happen quite frequently, they will always bring a smile to your face.
Did you experience any incidents recently that made you feel you were in the right place at the right time? Or, met someone for the right reasons, or got an idea off of them that has changed how you see yourself?

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
See the lessons that are being learned in a bigger picture and, remember, not all questions need to be answered. They are not meant to be right now. They will come to you when you least expect and unfold the puzzle. Be your own thoughts spectator without judging them.








3
HOW TO DEAL WITH WAKE-UP CALLS

'There is no coming to consciousness without pain. People will do anything, no matter how absurd, in order to avoid facing their own Soul. One does not become enlightened by imagining figures of light, but by making the darkness conscious.'

— C.G. Jung
The first awakening stages are easily identified. Read through the list below and see which one resonates with you the most at this point in time. Some may or may not resonate. Remember, we are all individuals with different life packages.
Triggering Shifts
Generally, a huge life shift event is triggered, such as a near-death experience, accident, divorce, or separation, loss of a family member, or health issues. Don't get me wrong, it is not mandatory to have one these to be qualified under the awakening progress. Things like daily roller coaster life, the constant nudging of an inner calling, simple intuition, a muscle getting stronger, noticing synchronicities, six senses being highlighted, noticing signs around, sleeplessness, wanting to move or change, or even slowing down may all lead to awakening the consciousness. Or it could be some shift in your dietary changes as well.
Now that you are aware of this, you will begin to notice the signs. You being gifted this book, or buying this book is a sign, too. Your soul is attracted to connect to the IG©. It's like dating in progress with own self.
You may have noticed that you have always been a giver, with nothing to take back. This is tiring you out, of course. And as a sensitive person, you are finding hard to say no to others.
How Do You React to This Calling to Your IG©?
Remember when you first fell in love? How did you feel? What did your soul and spirit and body feel like? Like floating in the clouds? Everything was beautiful and perfect. You wanted to have longer days and spend more time with your love, never to be parted. Am I right? Sleepless nights, no appetite for food, and making every effort to look your best. This is exactly how you feel when you fall in love with your own IG©. Remember, as a baby, you loved this IG© but growing up, you departed from it and now is the time to reunite. Dress up for yourself. Have a date with yourself. Get ready to meet once again.
Once you realise this change, you can start listening to your own thoughts. Be an active listener to yourself and only then to external factors. Within you is your own IG© who is trying hard to communicate with you. Have a chat with yourself. Create a world around you. It has been so long since you connected and the IG© doesn't want to lose this precious contact that is being made.
Back when I was growing up in India, in the early 90s, landline phones were just coming in and when we had to make a long distance call, we really had to plan the entire conversation beforehand and be ready when lines connected. We had to speak out loud and clear and every second on the phone was precious. It is the same here with your inner guide. When you connect, the messages are going to be very clear. It all just pours in and you must make the most of it.
Listen to your gut feeling. Recently, I was speaking to an 11-year-old child on her secondary school admission and she told me this: 'I know from my gut feeling that I did well in my interview and am going to get the seat in the desired school. It is only my parents who are panicking.'
I was shocked and, at the same time, delighted to hear this from an 11-year-old child. Immediately, I asked her what she really means by 'gut feeling' and she rubbed her hands on her tummy and said, 'It is a funny feeling that you have in here. Everyone has it.'
So, here is what we can learn from such a young child. Each and every one of us has a gut feeling and we should listen to it no matter what the world says. Trust this inner feeling. Always listen to your intuition and not just instincts.
Be authentic to yourself. Don't change just for change's sake. Your IG© likes you just as you are. Nothing needs modified or changed. You are loved for exactly who you are.
Once activated with gut senses, your IG© will connect at a level that resonates with you. So, don't be afraid of missing the sign or the communications that are being transferred.
Once you hear your IG© and follow the gut feeling, you are in the right direction. It is your soul's own direction that you walk in. Your IG© helps in connecting with your path. We all have a soul mission and soul path to reach the mission. Sometimes we are lost, and sometimes we make it on to the right path. It is all about adjusting and listening to your own inner GPS system with your IG© and following it. At other times, when it's a longer journey or detour, there can be wonderful experiences for you to gather along the path. All are part of the life lesson package we come with. Be brave and ride carefree on this journey.
Baby Steps
Baby steps are a very important aspect of the soul walk. Always make small changes and small steps. It is easier when you fall to be lifted back on to the path. Take a step-by-step approach. Be gentle with your shifts and changes. When I had a calling to work with people, I had an urge to make the decision to quit my day job and shift. But my IG© suggested hanging on and told me: 'Not yet.'
And listening to my IG©, I made small changes in my day job so I was freeing up my space in the evening and on weekends for what I was passionate about; attending to my clients and teaching.
Simply by becoming observant, you are raising the vibrations of your soul to watch, notice, feel, and activate your 5 senses on what is happening around your perimeter including the 6th sense, which is your intuition. I refer to this as watching your soul path from a bird's eye view.
When you are dealing with wake-up calls, the best tool I can share here is to be a healthy sceptic (questioner), rather believing everything at first. The reason is, when you are a constructively sceptical person, you are analysing and listening to your own inner self. And you will evaluate your experiences and choices based on your own beliefs. I open my workshop or treatments by suggesting to the person to be open and take what resonates with them. What is right for me may not yet be right for you. But it could be in the future.
This will help your mind to look for that excitement in creating space for experiencing your own way. Don't just let your head or heart speak. Give them time and space so that they both can give you feedback.

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
With the space that is created, accept what is available to you. For me, when I was getting on to this path, reiki came on to my path. It is a universal life force energy technique which is attuned by a master teacher. I welcomed it into my soul just from one experience. In that one moment I knew this will change my way of living from all aspects. That was the moment I felt coming back to my HOME, which is the soul.








4
EXPECT THE UNEXPECTED

'All great achievements require time.'

— Maya Angelou
What does spiritual awakening feel like to you? Will you know when it is happening to you? Could you have recognised it if it happened to you before, or will you notice it when it happens in the future? Again, it differs for each individual. No one's experience is better than the others, or more right or wrong. Just like our 5 fingers are unique, this experience will be unique as well. It is like climbing a never-ending ladder; as we keep placing our feet forward, we see our awakening getting deeper to our soul's blue print.
Inwards Journey
For me, it feels like a journey you are carrying inwards to soul. It is like a veil of fear, anger, hurt, etc., has been taken off gently that once had clouded my consciousness. At the end, you will feel like the dark night is being replaced by light. You shine light into the soul of who you are and who you were meant to be and you glow in the dark for all the souls that are meant to be on this awakening path.
You will notice how the thoughts and emotions change over time:

Hatred to love
Unhappiness to happiness
Unforgiveness to forgiveness
Dissatisfied to satisfied
Pain to pleasure

Expect the Unexpected Transformation Starts Now
You will get more content with yourself and start accepting who you are. Below are the things that I started seeing differently in myself:
First thing I noticed when I accepted the changes happening during my reiki practice was being aware of my thoughts and my surroundings. Thoughts were more noticeable and I was more alert.
I was finding my way to knowingness about why I am on earth. What is it that I was meant to be doing? Why did God create me? Why did I choose to be born again? Things were deep but were helping to make sense of the puzzle that was being unfolded from the past.
My work life was getting less stressed as I was learning to have boundaries and learning how to manage my work/life balance.
Being more present was helping me to create a bond with my children and my partner. I was less at head space and more at feet space, which is grounding. Reiki was definitely giving me feet space that I had always needed.
I was learning how to control my thoughts and, so, I could change my beliefs, which changed my reality.
I was constantly craving to have more of inner peace. It is a joyful state to be in. And, I was working towards that craving to feed my soul. Usually, I call reiki as my addiction and so do my students. Good, positive addictions. As doing self-healing through reiki was giving me that inner peace.
Your senses are more alert. You notice your 5 senses opening up. For some, one of them could be stronger than the other. For me it was more about vision. I started seeing the Angelic Realm, the aura, and people's energy, and reading them through their energy field.
Listening to your gut feel is something you will be doing more often. If you are new to it, I highly recommend writing your experience down. Take baby steps. It's fun. Remember, as a baby you were natural at this. It is bringing that practice back into action. You got to do this. Simple exercise is to try and ask your gut what kind of a day it is going to be like when you wake up, and write down what you feel. Then, visit what you wrote in the evening and notice the similarities.
Spiritual teachers and books will be arriving at your sightings. The more positive things you think, the more creative space you will attract. I shifted from reading fiction to non-fiction (mind, body, spirit) books. Such a radical change.
I never knew that a common person can communicate with spirits or angels. But that whole perception changed for me as it was getting clearer that we all have the gifts which we weren't using. I now communicate with my spirit guides, guardian angels, fairies, etc. Whenever I am ready to hear and they are ready to share. It all happens at soul level through your IG©.
You become more telepathic as well. You see signs and knowingness of your own self increases as well. This is another fun game: If someone calls you, you will know who it is without seeing their name; or, before opening the door, you will know who it is. Try it out with openness.
You get closer to your pets and plants. I started hugging trees. After I completed my level one reiki workshop, I went to the nearest park with my friends during the break and felt the urge to hug a tree. And I did it. It felt so good. I hadn't realised that was what grounding meant. Don't be embarrassed. You would love it too. Involve your friends in your weirdness. Spread that weirdness around. I welcomed fishes in home. It is a great feeling to share love with animals and plants.
For me, reiki was the beginning of the change. For you, it could be different. We all vibrate differently with energies, and we all must find the right one for us. Ask yourself what are you practising currently or would like to that is or will impact you.
It could be yoga, mindfulness, meditation, Pranic healing, angels, Akashic healing, Shamanism, art, music, dance, photography, etc.
We slowly stop expecting things from the outer side and start looking towards the IG© and we listen to and care for ourselves. We learn to love ourselves and others. Yes, the priorities are meant to change and are changing. Welcome this change to your soul through your own IG©.

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
Follow the star in your heart and let the magic unfold.








5
ACCEPTANCE

'Life is a series of natural and spontaneous changes. Don't resist them; that only creates sorrow. Let reality be reality. Let things flow naturally forward in whatever way they like.'

— Lao Tzu
Accepting myself was about the last thing I could do or even think about when I began this spiritual journey. When I was practising my daily ritual of reiki, it was with an intention to see changes in my daughter's health condition rather than my own. This was despite my suffering at the time with arthritis. This is what we all do, right? We place our families before ourselves.
I took my body for granted. My priorities were different at the time as my second daughter was only a couple of months old and needed all the time and attention. And I realised, like me, many of us find it hard to accept and take care of ourselves. We live in a lie of who we are. Years go by before we even realise it.
We See Everyone to be Perfect Except Us
I was at a reiki talk by Pamela Miles a few years ago where she said that we need to look after ourselves and that it is very important for our growth and so forth. The example she used was amazing and I use it to this day in my classes: When you board on a flight, the air hostess gives instructions for safety. They always mention the oxygen mask to be used for the adult first and then for the child.
Only when we are safe can we look after the kids. That is so right. It clicked with me fully and once I started accepting myself, more healing came in and started feeling good inside out. And my priority became myself.
Accepting Ourselves is an Inside-Out Job
Going back to before I was pregnant for the first time, I was drinking 6 cappuccinos a day. With my insomnia, I was in a whirlpool of mess with emotions and stress; only caffeine could sort my thinking at the time. The day I realised that I was pregnant, I gave up coffee until the day I stopped breastfeeding her (for nearly 2 years). This change came with the realisation that I was carrying a beautiful soul inside me. I needed to look after her well-being and care for my health and to nourish this baby. I realised in that moment that my body was no more mine but for this little embryo that was growing inside me. Many of us have addictions; this is the time to give them up and accept the body for the little soul.
Think about it, if you don't accept yourself as who you are then who else is going to? It is like waiting for that perfect man or woman to enter our lives and love us, while we remain unloving to own selves. If you are not giving enough love to yourself, what kind of love are you going to give the person? How would people treat you if you send these signals of how you look after yourself? It is not just you, we all go through these changes. I went through this, as well. Self-blame, self-pity, and self-hurt was all a part of me back then. I didn't find anything to like about myself. I have a friend who used to greatly admire herself, and, seeing her, I would wish to be like her. But it never occurred to me that I could change myself to love myself.
If you don't accept yourself, you start believing in others and other's beliefs become your own. Your own beliefs are hidden along your visions, goals, and dreams. You become a lie and remain unhappy when you aren't a friend to your own self.

'The new year stands before us, like a chapter in a book, waiting to be written. We can help write that story by setting goals.'

— Melody Beattie
Fill your heart with love. The fuller you are, the more you have got to share. As you begin the journey of accepting yourself, you will notice your self-esteem and self-confidence grow. In the start, I was panicking speaking about my health to others and even my insecurities. Now, I am not afraid. I accept my health and who I am today and yesterday. This quote aptly defines the situation: 'Don't judge me from my past.'
This is so true. We all change, don't we? What we believed in yesterday could be wrong today, and what we believed to be wrong today may be right tomorrow! All our experiences are teaching us something right now. It may be to be nice to ourselves or care for ourselves or to listen to ourselves and our needs. Just listen to your IG© and understand what the message might be for you right now.
I could never accept myself growing up. I was constantly compared to others at school and home and was told how mediocre I was at everything I did. It was much later that I told myself, 'You have to take the control back for yourself right now. It is never too late. You are in charge of your thoughts and you can change them. Don't let your past or your past beliefs from other people control you.' I had to examine each thought from its origin and take it away like taking the weeds out from the root and cleaning the soil.
For example, I love to sing but my music teacher told me that I was not good at it and that I was never born to sing. This created a belief inside me that I must be really bad at it and so impacted my communication skills, as well. Till today, I hold on to this thought. It is a work in progress for me to change my belief on my singing skills. I do sing now, but only when the house is empty or just to my children. Kids accept us with no filters and are always honest with their opinion.
Like my music teacher, don't we all have people in our lives who place their ideas and beliefs on to us? Look within and ask yourself: 'What is holding me back from progressing further in my life?' With life experience we learn not to act from the ego, but view it from our soul level. Ask yourself: 'Why should I not think about myself?' It is never too late to begin this change to know yourself better and accept yourself to be as you are in this life journey.
As Long as We're Breathing, We are Learning Something New About Us
When you come to terms with who you are, you become your own best friend and you will never be lonely in your own space. You start enjoying yourself for who you are. You are your own first love and best friend and no one can replace this feeling or take it away. The more you get to know who you are and what you want, the less you will let things upset you. Think about it.

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
You are perfect. Just look at yourself in a picture or in the mirror and repeat, 'I accept myself just as I am.' Do this for 21 days and repeat it, at least, 3 times a day. It may be aloud in the shower, or in your mind, to start with. You will soon enough notice the transformation. What have you got to lose in trying this, anyway?

Warning: It will work only if you change your mindset and accept yourself as you are right now.
You are who you are
No matter what comes in, it is you
No matter what happens to you, it is you
No matter who stays with you, it is you
Be who you are
Accepting the self and others unconditionally allows everyone to remove their masks. This enables everyone to feel at ease with who they are and what they want to be. Let the self-acceptance begin and let it become contagious. Spread it around you and your loved ones. This will help you lessen the self-criticism and self-sabotaging that you may do to yourself. You will feel good about yourself inside and out.
Once you accept yourself as who you are, you will start valuing yourself and this will reflect on others to value you. You give them no choice other than accepting you.







6
SELF-KNOWINGNESS

'Nirvana is entire body experience of complete knowingness that our lives are enriched with abundance in the present moment and that it will continue to be going forward.'

— Matthew Donnelly
Knowing who you are, and realising to accept with consciousness, is meant to be the magical moment or rebirth of your soul.
In my workshops, I usually ask the students to write 20 positive things about themselves. About 90 per cent of my audience struggles to do this. This is mostly because we have forgotten who we truly are and what we can do with our strengths. Points as simple as what do we like, what we wanted to become, etc., are like a faded memory or far away dream. But if the same exercise is given to two strangers, this gets very easy. We tend to be nice to them and give a lot of positive things we like just from the presence. But we fail to do that to ourselves.
Why?
This knowingness of your soul and your own self is very important for your spiritual growth. This is the key to connecting to your IG©.
Knowingness makes you feel comfortable, relaxed, confident, and wise. Recognising your own ego is an important asset on this journey. We will always be learning about ourselves. We just need to change our mindset so our ego is ready to be heard and work on our awareness. And that is the beauty of choosing this body and this lifetime now.
Recognise your strengths, embrace them along your weaknesses. Look around you; if you think someone doesn't have a weakness, maybe you don't know them enough. Weaknesses are your stepping stones to success, once you see them as your lessons to be learned. It is the same in school—there was homework we enjoyed a lot, and some we didn't at all but still had to do it. We have to accept that we need to work on our weaknesses and turn them into our strengths. Remember this is the university of life and these are the lessons we choose to come and learn.
Be objective about knowing yourself. Don't criticise yourself over and over again. You may not be the person you are imagining yourself to be. I do get a negative chatterbox in my head from time to time. In these spells, I look at the 'Good Reads' folder in my laptop or my Facebook page; it is my treasure for positive things that people said to me or happened to me. This helps me to return my mind back to positive thinking. I find that having a journal always helps. I can't emphasise enough how important a journal is to write your experiences in this journey. In most of the workplaces you have to do a self-review, where you need to write about your achievements and areas of improvements. Your journal is your space to do this in your current life. Remember, we all come with a work-in-progress tag. So, utilise this space and get going.
Born to Be Perfect in Everything We Achieve
It is perfectly okay not to be good at all things we do or should be doing. No one is perfect. (More on that in later chapters.)
An extract from the Bhagavad Gita—Arjun asks Krishna what is the difference between the soul and body?

Lord Krishna begins by saying that body is the objective field of life. A wise person who knows about the body is called the knower of the objective field. God is also called the conscious, knowing soul in all bodies. Having knowledge of both body and soul comprises true knowledge, which is a form of awareness. Knowledge of the body is a form of wisdom or awareness. One's wisdom, awareness can know the true nature of the body from within the body/mind system. God, too, is the knower/awareness of soul in all bodies since our soul can awaken to its own existence and be aware of itself.

It is time to connect with your IG© to bring about that knowing soul.
The tools that worked for me in my journey to self-knowingness are:

Spending time by myself, even if only for 15 minutes a day. Could be in the shower, in the car, during meditation, or in bed.
Separation from gadgets. Real connection happens when the Wi-fi is disconnected.
Talking to my guides from Akashic records.


'The two most important days in your life are the day you are born and the day you find out why.'

— Mark Twain
This quote always reminds me of how important that day is when you find out why you were born. The search comes to an end, but that doesn't mean everything ends. A beautiful new beginning starts, and this is the rebirth of your soul.
This is the day you realise what your inner calling is. I clearly remember the day I went in for my reiki level 1 workshop, leaving my kids behind, and thinking that there is more to follow and that I am finally on the right path. I didn't have a clue or awareness where that decision would lead to, but knowingness was more important to me at that time.
That was it; as with all matters, I put my trust in God. He gave me the suffering, and it has to end at some point. He won't leave me there for too long. And suffering was never my conscious choice, therefore, I can work on it consciously.
Now I can look back and say thank you to God for giving me arthritis. I am grateful for it. If not for my condition, I may have remained in the dark nights for much longer. I knew with all the clarity in my life what I had to do, but the steps to the path took longer than expected. Consciously. Knowing that I was on the same path that I have always visualised was a great gift.
As a child, I was always interested in healing. But the only way I ever knew to do this was as a doctor. Doctors are considered to be God, as they can save a life. I wanted to heal and help people. I wanted to be of service. My heart would always go out if anyone was suffering. When I was about 14, my neighbour's child dislocated her elbow while playing. There was a 'click' sound and she was in instant pain. Her mother didn't know what to do and it was hanging out. I was there with the child's mother when we went to the nearest hospital and I stayed there until all was well with the child. It was the natural thing to do at the time. I was known to be the weird and different one. For many reasons, I preferred to suffer myself, rather than anyone else.
No matter how many times the word reiki came in my life, it didn't make sense. My mind was set only on becoming a medical doctor, as I was of the belief that only they can heal or make one feel better. When I learned reiki, however, and did a session on a fellow student, it surprised me. I was excited to learn that anyone can heal if you want to and when you are ready. Okay, with a bit of clause, a healer can heal only when the healee is ready. Reiki is a universal life force energy where a practitioner is trained how to call in the energy with an attunement and work on a person's chakras. Sure, if medical supervision is required, it is given, but as a complementary therapy, reiki helps on the road to recovery.
Practising reiki every day has kept me grounded till this day. I would never compromise and I always ask my students to make a promise to their self to give, at least, 10 minutes a day of their lives for self-healing. This could be reiki, meditation, chanting, angel talk, or anything that brings in clarity and the feeling of being grounded to them.

'You can't know your real mind as long as you deceive yourself.'

— Bodhi Dharma

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
Be honest and sincere with yourself. Whom are you messing with? None other than your own self.








7
BOUNDARIES

'The only real conflict you will ever have in your life won't be with others, but with yourself.'

— Shannon L. Alder
Once you know yourself and accept yourself as who you are, then the boundaries come into place. These boundaries are not for others, but to define who you are and what your stretches and limitations are. In other terms, it is where my line ends and your line begins. Once we understand our boundaries, it is easier for others to know who you truly are in a much less complicated manner. It is as simple as sending a message to your boss that you will not take work calls at 1 a.m. unless it is an emergency.
This is as simple as you locking your front door and anyone who wishes to enter must ask your permission to do so. The choice is yours to make whether you want to open the door or not.
Don't Take Everything Personally
What a person is learning from us or what we learn from them can be called a mirror effect. So, rather than always thinking, 'Am I the issue?' Or, 'Am I the problem', stick to what your IG© says. Trust me, you won't feel bad for it and why should you?
If you are new to creating boundaries, here are some suggestions that worked for me in the past:

Listen to your gut or intuition or your IG©; that butterfly feeling in your belly.

You must also learn to speak up loud and clear.
Ask your angels to help or tap on the points to bring that inner strength.
Learn to say no, especially when you have to prioritise your own needs.
Choose healthy energies that expand you rather than deplete your energies.
Take only constructive criticism and judge who is giving you this feedback before you take it on board.
Engage with people who show respect for your feelings and opinions.

Once you are clear to yourself, it is much easier to work with others. Never be afraid to speak your truth.
Saying no was a major lesson in my life to be learned and implemented. Like many of you, I was raised to say yes to everything. Even if things were difficult, I had to stretch myself to say yes. Once I stepped into my spiritual side, I started learning to say no to things that were beyond my limitations and might have affected my soul or body or even mind. For me, this is still a learning-in-progress. The battle of being a good human and being yourself should always come in place.
Prioritising
When I prioritise myself, I feel good and this helps in my growth and reflects on the work I do. This gives me more energy and my health feels great.
It could be that you have to say no to work overtime that gets directed your way all the time. Rather than saying no to overtime, you can send a message letting them know of your boundary limitations. Stop looking at e-mails after work hours; find a hobby or activity after work so you are engaged in your happiness spot. Overtime can affect your health if you don't enjoy it. By setting boundaries, your employers or colleagues realise that you value yourself.
This will help you be healthy and avoid entering work the next morning with a tired mind. This will lead to you being more productive and, in turn, create an ideal work-life balance. This will also mean more time for you and your family.
Having worked in the corporate world for nearly 14 years, I have observed that the people with no hobbies or social life outside work are mostly prone to be taken for granted. They are the ones who get dumped with extra work (not all such people, but a majority of them).
It is time to change the way you are to get what you desire in life. Start with placing those border lines of what you can and cannot do. Look at your wish list of hobbies, or what activities the local clubs offer that may interest you.
Boundaries Defined
Boundaries are to be defined within your family and relationships as well, not just your workplace. Stand up for yourself so that the universe supports you. Once you have your boundaries set, no one can hurt you. It is like having a door keeper to your heart centre, guarding and protecting you.
Take a step back and look at the message you are sending out. Think and connect to your IG© in working out a plan to make changes. Change can happen only when you are ready to bring it in. Ask yourself, 'What areas do I need to revise to set in the boundaries in both my personal and professional life? How is it impacting me? What actions can I take to create better boundaries?'
Always remember, boundaries are for you and not for others. Once you define what
your boundaries are, it reflects on others how to interact with you. Always work in baby steps as these habits take years in forming and will take just a little longer to redefine.
Habits are not something we create in one day, and to expect to change it in some miraculous way in a day will not happen. Take time and plan and be assured that it will happen for you to get what you truly desire. Have patience, notice the difference, and see if it was worth your while to be happy.

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
'I am working in my light and I am caring for myself.'
This is an affirmation to keep you going for the next 21 days, at least, 3 times daily to see the changes coming in your way.








Sutra 2
GRATITUDE

'Do not spoil what you have by desiring what you have not; remember that what you now have was once among the things you only hoped for.'

— Epicurus








1
BEING THANKFUL

'Be thankful for what you have; you'll end up having more. If you concentrate on what you don't have, you will never, ever have enough.'

— Oprah Winfrey
I grew up seeing my parents pray at our home altar every single day. Nothing fancy; just lighting a diya (an Indian lantern), incense, and offering some fruits and flowers while praying to the idols. Usually, this would take no more than 15 minutes on normal days and on festive days maybe an hour, like in most Indian homes. I would usually participate along with them. I would always ask my dad what did he pray for every day, and he would say, 'Just wished all well.' He would often say, 'When we do good we get good back.' He also taught me that hard work always pays off and to believe in myself and the God. These sentences stuck to me forever. My mom would chant a few mantras from her own self-learning from Hinduism. This, again, was nothing different than being thankful for each and every day for our existence and survival. It was simply bowing to the universe and appreciating everything we had from our soul level.
Even though I learned about gratitude and practiced it all my life, the logic didn't really hit me completely until I went through my own journey much later in my life. This journey made me connect all the dots together. It was like I was being examined for what I had learned growing up and giving answers.
The day I turned around from self-pity to self-acceptance and started praying saying thank you to God, my life got better. The day my husband said, 'You are not as bad as you are imagining it all in your head. You are alive; celebrate it!' changed my life downside up. I realised it is okay if I can't get out of bed; I am still alive. I am alive to see my kids smiling and started asking for help from the universe. I stopped moaning about my ill health and saw the blessing of having two wonderful kids around me and a helping and caring husband. What else did I need in those self-acceptance moments? My family was being more accepting of me than my own self.
Has this ever happened to you before? Or, are you in a moment where you don't see the light? I am here to tell you it is okay. Yes, it is absolutely fine. For a moment, look around you and see the gifts you've got. I am sure even at the lowest moment of your life you can see a light. It may only be a tiny ray, like stars behind grey clouds. But if you can't see any at all, then there is no harm in making one up. We definitely make up and fill up our worries bag, so why not make up and fill up our gratitude bag?
Start counting your blessings. Start with baby steps and open the door to gratitude to welcome the abundance that comes along with it. Acknowledge all that has happened and will happen in the future. There is nothing that is not part of the game of life. Maybe at the time of a given situation, it may not make sense. But, remember, it was all a part of the game to succeed in life. This, to me, is the basic spiritual law of existence. We can only look for tomorrow when we have a ray of hope today.
When you look at life as a game, every move you take either makes you win or lose, or you play again. You can replay your failures to learn your mistakes, but don't repeat them when you play again. This helps you learn and overcome your obstacles with strength and reach out to success that is waiting for you. Life is a game. Play with being optimistic until the last minute. Anything can change.
Life gives you a second chance as well. It is never over with one failure. Always remember that. Your IG© knows this very well. Be thankful for all the failures you had, as you learned what not to do again. It is a blessing to know your obstacles.
Failures Are Lessons To Life
Show gratitude to every moment of life and live each moment as your last. As a young child, when I heard this phrase in Bollywood movies, I mistook it to mean that living every moment means to eat all you can and do all the things you think you can't. You don't have to worry about anything or answer to anyone. But, the next day when I would wake up realising I had another day to live, aah, that was uncomfortable. Regardless to say, I had a heap of stuff to undo and face them the next day!
With experience, I realised that the phrase actually meant living and accepting your fears and embracing them. Like, taking up swimming classes if that is your worst fear. Because you must overcome it before you die. Live fully now. This body and life, you get it only once. If you find happiness in doing any of your wishes, do it. You've got nothing to regret, only to make it happen and mark completed. Start acknowledging these thankful moments.
Live the Moment as Your Last One
Gratitude is knowing that everything is in perfect, divine order as it should be right now. Don't consider gratitude as a hope that it will all work out; it is being thankful that it already has. Believe in it to have already happened.
Write the Gratitude Journal
Start cultivating this new habit of being grateful in your life in all aspects. Identify where they are and bring in more of it. It is a mirror reflection, you gather more and you get to see them doubling. No matter how small it is, keep collecting this treasure of moments. It could be a smile from a stranger down the road, or giving a helping hand to a neighbour. Look around with an open eye to find things to be grateful for. You will see life in a different perspective.
Write down the things you are grateful for in your life, even if it means only one thing right now. For example, you are breathing. Ask your IG© to bring in more, which means bringing you closer to nature to get fresh air, or creating a space to breath in deeply. Draw an infinity symbol beside it. Every day, when you pray, remember this and show gratitude.

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
I welcome my life fully with being present.








2
SILENCE

'Silence is a source of great strength.'

— Lao Tzu
As a child, I remember I used to be in a trance while others would be talking. Just in my own world. Daydreaming. Neither thoughts of the past, nor any worries of the future would enter in this state of bliss. I would just be staring at an object or a person. Only later did I realise that this is called meditation. This used to often happen at unexpected times and was an unintentional act.
When I got married, my husband was worried about this as I would, sometimes, not react to his conversations. It used to last just a couple of minutes and he soon realised that I was at peace in that moment. Being in silence is what my mind needed at that moment of time. Not stressed, not worried, just in silence with my mind.
I grew up watching people meditating but they, more often than not, were yogis, priests in temples, or people long in their 60s. I never seemed to have come across an engineer, or a doctor, at least not when I was growing up at the time.
If you look around children, infants are more involved in that silence than us. They are completely engrossed in their act for the moment and play with mindfulness while being totally present. As we are grow up, we slowly forget to use this gift of ours, among others. By the time we remember to use this gift, if we decide to use it, we struggle and struggle and have to make quite an effort to bring it back.
Silence is a wonderful tool and once you get used to it, the ripple effect happens of wanting more of it. It is leaving all the chaos behind and letting yourself go deeper within to find yourself through your IG©, or get answers to the questions or solutions you are looking for.
Ask yourself what will you do today to make it better? What actions and options have you got right now? The first thing that comes is the one that we need follow. But we need courage and strength to face our fears. Remember, you can do it and only you can.
If you have a problem, do you face it head on or bury your head in the sand? The head-burying may seem like the easy solution but it is a temporary one as you end up feeling bad later on anyway. It is like trying to hold water in your palm. Only so much can stay in and the rest will flow away. Until you get a tumbler to drink from it properly. So challenge yourself to face your problem, fight with your fears, and take actions. Once you conquer them, you are done with them forever. That feeling of success is incomparable.
Take action to refine the solutions into simpler ways. Break it down and work on ways you can sort it out. Look at others who were faced with a similar dilemma and ask what they did to work it out. Another way is to ask yourself if you were your role model what would you do?
Focusing on the problem is always a worry and a constant source of negative energy. Think back, take time, and bring back positive thoughts. These are your weapons to success.
Turn inwards when the answers don't come from external sources. Your own IG© has all the wisdom required for you at this moment of time. As with all your problems, the solutions always lie within you, but we are too focused outside to know. Only when we pause and ask our IG© do we get the answers. It could be in a way of saying yes, or showing other signs or reassurance which your conscious already knows. Each symbol or sign will mean different things to different people or the situations they are in.
Start with meditation and write down your question. Take a deep breath and relax your body and mind. Set your intention to connecting to the source and IG© and be aware of what is the right answer for you at this moment of time. Don't stress about it. Just relax and believe in your IG©. Make a connection with your IG© first. As part of this process, you may hear whispers or see images or colours; or, after meditation, pick an Angel Card if you have a deck and you will have the answer. Even if it doesn't happen straight away, stay at it. Watch your dream patterns. After a couple of minutes of silence, take a paper and write down what comes to you. There must not be any judgement or questioning of the process.
Once you start journaling, the answers start flowing for you. I have tried many times myself and, in my workshops, ask students to write after meditations and it is amazing how many pages they fill up, as if someone activated their switch to channelling. Silence is a powerful switch which once switched on will get us closer to the path we are to be on and from then on, smooth sailing happens.
For every problem in the world, there is an answer. The source of the problem has a solution. Just like the riddles, the answers lie within the question asked.
Realise that the answers reside within you; they are always there, but sometimes we need to try different techniques in seeing it or knowing it suits our consciousness efforts. You will find your technique that is unique to you.
Pause ... Breath ... Pause ... Breath ... Pause ... Breath ... Pause ... Breath ... Pause...

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
Ask yourself and write down the details; go out and reach out for information. Sometimes, I keep my phone handy so I can use the voice recorder to store the messages that come to me. At times, not knowing the answers are the signs, too, as having all the answers would take the magic away from life. We need to discover ourselves consciously. It helped me to develop being patient, especially when answers were taking longer to come to me. Once we know the answers, we leave no scope for miracles and we expect the things that we know to happen. Rather, leave it and may the best come in our lives.
Another technique is silently repeating a mantra as you meditate; this is a powerful way to enter the silence of the mind. As you repeat the mantra, it creates a mental vibration that allows the mind to experience deeper levels of awareness. As you continue to meditate, the mantra becomes increasingly abstract and indistinct, until you're finally led into the field of pure consciousness from which the vibration arose. The mantra can be 'om', 'I am', or anything else that you are comfortable with.

Silence Has to Be Filled with Love
Love will inspire us and move all things toward their original goal and happiness. Believe in the silence that is with you and fill it with wisdom.
As the Sufi poet Rumi said, 'Silence is the language of God, all else is poor translation.'
It is great to develop a habit of getting up early, or to have an early snooze option and sit in silence. Read a mantra or affirmation and reflect on it. Journal your ideas and share these ideas or knowledge with the person you trust in. It will help you to stay happy and peaceful for the rest of the day.
I love this quote from author Serena Dyer, 'Silence is strength. Silence is wisdom. Silence is God.'
A Better Listener
By being a better listener, you gain more knowledge as you are hearing new information. Being in silence and experiencing this beauty is a way of mindfulness as well. It helps in gaining (or regaining) memory, as you are not overusing your brain. Giving yourself time to rest or go on a detox to cope better. Your self-awareness increases as a direct result.
Your health will also improve, as most our DISEASE comes from our mind. For every physical pain we go through, there is an underlying emotional equivalent. Ask your IG© and you will be directed to find the way to the emotions that caused it. Just trust in yourself and ask. Once the mind is healed, the body automatically goes into healing. I have started living more in the present moment and not dwelling on my past or future aspects. Silence anchors me to be in the now and be aware of the gifts of now. Silence helped me control my anger to some level, as well as helped me listen to the messages from my body. Listening to my emotions helped me to live from a more content place rather than from a judgemental one.
You start to hear the sounds of nature too. Birds welcome you in the morning, the sound of waves soothe you, if you are near a sea or an ocean. It is like your sense of hearing clears up.
We live in the age of busy. Busy people not only do a lot, they also think a lot. But being lost in thought is not only tiring, it is also a brilliant way to waste energy. It is as if we have forgotten the very ground of our being which is still and silent. Learn to meditate and turn to the eye of your attention and awareness within. Let your mind be quiet and allow yourself to be still. I see my silence time as a time for rebooting and recharging. As our technology needs to reboot and upgrade, our mind needs the upgrade of silence. Call them your silent retreats.
You can express more by being in silence. Sometimes, words are not always the cure; you hug someone to help mend a broken heart. Silently listening to your friends also helps them find their own answers in your silence. Silence is a priceless gift. Just give it a try as you have nothing to lose. Now I know why many people do the Mouna Vatram (an act of silence maintained for a day or a couple of days) in India.







3
ASK AND IT IS GIVEN

'If you want to ask one question, ask yourself, what are you giving to the universe and only that will be returned.'

— Amit Ray
There is a typical Indian saying: Even your own mother won't feed you if you don't ask and say you are hungry. Well, this is not 100 per cent true, but there must be some degree of truth behind it. Yet, how many of us were taught how to ask? In fact, we still struggle to ask for help. It is still a work-in-progress for me, as only when a situation arises do I need to rethink and create my own style that works in reaching out for the favour. I have to say, I am blessed to find such people who are able to help me in such situations and are there to support me when in need. In return, I am available to them as well.
The other thing I learned growing up is that no one will ever know what you need other than yourself. So you need to be clear about what you want and find a way of asking for it. Just like when the genie makes an appearance out of his magic lamp, you need to be absolutely sure which of your wishes you want fulfilled.
Being raised in a culture where we are told not to ask for help or not to show our insecurities, we grow up to be someone else. We pretend we can do everything and that we should be doing everything all by ourselves. It is crazy. Why can't we ask for help; every human needs it. It is basic, right? We are here to help each other; that bond was created before we came to life.
I saw my mum being a perfect mother; a housewife, always doing her best with all the tasks and chores in the home to keep a balance. She raised 2 kids all by herself. Being a mother of 2, I know how hard it can be to be a single parent—to look after the children, the finances, general running of the home, etc. Not to mention the increased anxiety and madness when either or both the kids fall sick. My mother was completely dedicated to us. My father was away mostly, on his job. We used to see him only a few days in a month. She never received any help from her friends or family. She never knew how to ask for help. She always stood on as a hard rock in our lives.
I had neither her courage nor patience nor willpower, because of which I always considered myself as a failure. It was only much later did I realise that deep down she is tired of doing this on her own; she was never given a choice. Like many people in the world, we become victims of not knowing how to ask for support. You become what you have to and the circumstances create you.
Our stories may be different, but we all end up doing it to ourselves. We forget how to ask, or the society doesn't give us time, or we don't frame the right questions to ask for help. But mostly it is the lack of training. There are no coaching institutes and in schools they don't teach us how to ask. Starting at a very young age, if a child asks how to tie his laces, he is made fun of by his friends and peers. You could hear them saying, 'Ha, you don't even know that!' This can put them off asking and can make them feel ashamed to need help. The same happens in class if we stand up and ask a question to clarify, only for the rest of the class to laugh and pull our self-esteem down. This makes us grow inwards rather than outwards. In turn, we try to figure it all out ourselves.

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
There are a few steps that still help me to ask other people for help:

Firstly, be prepared to be offered help

Sometimes, when we actually get help, we don't know how to react to it. It does happen, believe me. We panic and think, 'Wow, why is this person helping us?' But there is no need to panic. Allow yourself to accept the help that comes your way.

Think about how much you need the help

This helps one relook into the ask. Say, for
example, it could be asking a friend to pick up your child from school while you are stuck in traffic, or get your groceries along with theirs when you don't have the time. Be super clear of what you want to achieve with the question.

Be prepared to pay it back in some form

Yes, when you receive help, always remember the kindness attached with it and how they must have had to stretch just a little bit more for you in that moment. Think about how you can repay them. It may be flowers, a candle, a card, or some homemade cookies. The more kindness you spread, the more you get back.

Ask that it is granted

Be prepared to ask and prepare for it to be granted. Visualise yourself in this process—see yourself talking to your colleague about helping in a task, and he/she saying yes. Do you see how happy you will feel as you get to spend more time with your family? The most important part is asking for support and knowing you will always get it.

Be positive

Positive attitude helps in moving forward. Even if something doesn't work out, you find out why later on. Always see the positivity.

Start with a small ask

A small favour may be easier for you to practice with. To get the hang of it, you may begin with your family or close friends. 'Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and you shall find; knock, and it shall be opened to you.' —Matthew 7:7

Know how to ask

Unfortunately, there is no training to master this skill. What your gut says, follow; it is the feeling in your stomach. Should I ask or not? Am I asking the right thing or not? Am I asking the right person or not?

Success Stairs
Once these exercises are done in your head, it gets easier to get the results. I also found it was easier to ask my angels and my IG© more often than humans. Sometimes, it was the ease of internal communication, and so, was more relaxing for that part of life.
Angels are around us and the only way to talk to them is knocking on their door. So, take this moment of time and ask for help. This is the first lesson I learned when I got to meet my angels for the first time. There is no formality. It is free will.
When You Ask, You Surrender
Surrendering a situation to God means surrendering to him our thoughts about it. It is not giving up personal responsibility but we only bear the ultimate responsibility for a situation by being responsible for our thoughts about it. This is the key to asking for help. Surrender to Him when you ask Him directly for guidance, or from His creators.
As the Bhagavad Gita says:
brahmay ādhāya karmāi
sagam tyaktvā karoti ya
lipyate na sa pāpena
padma-patram ivāmbhasā
Which means, 'One who performs his duty without attachment, surrendering the results unto the Supreme Lord, is unaffected by sinful action, as the lotus leaf is untouched by water.'
Rules in Asking
Rules of asking is to ask. To ask is hard but you can do it. It is easy to bring that change of knowing when you know how to ask and the rest of the points above.
Remember as Rumi mentions, 'What you seek is seeking you.'







4
CHANGE THE THOUGHTS

'Your beliefs become your thoughts,
Your thoughts become your words,
Your words become your actions,
Your actions become your habits,
Your habits become your values,
Your values become your destiny.'

— Mahatma Gandhi
Change is never easy, whether you are trying to change a certain behaviour, an attitude, or your current circumstances. It will be easier once you know why you want to bring in change and what it can do for your wellness. So, start thinking about why that change is currently necessary for you and why you want to bring that particular change. What are they? How are you dealing with it now by not changing it? What do you think will improve in the future if you do change?
Identification is main the task to be done when you decide there is change required; notice the patterns of what it has been leading up to at this point and the consequences of change. If I repeat 'I am not loved', does that lead to a healthy life; a life where you can't see or feel love anywhere? Sometimes, we listen to our mind and decide no one loves us and that we are not good enough. We must realise that we must remove the mist from our eyes to see clearly the love surrounding us. Once you uncover the mist, you start seeing the miracles around you.
Write Your Thoughts
Write down your thoughts visualising the future self that the change brought in and how you are going to bring in the new circumstances. See how your body reacts. Is it excited or tensed? Where is the tension or excitement holding you up in your body? Notice it. How elevated are you? May be the change was not needed after all? It could be either way. Just recognise and take note of the feeling and emotions you are going through. Do this in a non-judgemental manner. If it helps, record this moment by writing it down.
If this change was making you happy in your thoughts, try visualising again when you are happy, seeing how easy it is to implement this new change in yourself. Bring that same sense to your conscious mind and this will help you in incorporating it into the real world.
I was doing this for most of my challenges in my life; thinking I had issues due to the beliefs I created in my head. For example, I was always anxious speaking in a crowd, especially to unknown people. It did not affect me as a child, but as I reached my teen years, it all went downhill. A couple of years ago, when I was preparing for my talk for an audience of 30 people, I was thinking myself to be a crazy lunatic for taking up the offer but also excited as I loved the topic I was going to share my knowledge on with the audience. I decided, 'Let's try! If I have that feeling of excitement, then there must be something good in it.'
So, I started bringing my thoughts into practice by visualising as many times as possible the room, the smell, the seating arrangements, and myself giving the talk. I even included all the hiccoughs and odd questions from the audience, and even the day not going at all as planned. But I worked through my self-critic thoughts. From 'you will screw it up', 'you can't do it', 'someone else is better', I had to prepare myself by repeating 'it is okay to screw it up', 'giving it a try is more important'. So, it was all about preparing myself and planning ahead to try. What are you waiting for? Try it in your current situation. It may be for a situation at work, for family, or anywhere else in your life.
Choices
You have the power to change your thoughts in a heartbeat. It is your choice. I have used tools like Post-its, calendars, and mobile reminders with positive affirmations to keep me on track with positive thoughts. It is like cultivating any new habit. Take time and patience; be gentle with yourself. When you are working on your silence, it is the ripple effect it creates to change the pattern of your thoughts. It is not as hard as you may have thought.
A negative mind will always create negative thoughts and keeps you away from soul-calling. Whereas, a positive mind keeps the thoughts positive and keeps you in sync with your soul-calling. The IG© connection gets stronger with your positive thoughts.
Every day is a new day with new magic which only we can see. But to see it, we need to have a clear mind. A misty mind will see only what it wants to see. It is time to take the mistiness off and bring in some clear spells. There is no shortcut. This doesn't mean that I don't have negative talk in my head from time to time; I do. But I embrace and welcome it so I can become who I am and want to be.

'Everything first was a thought.'

— Bob Proctor
Nothing is Tough ...
... unless we make it so in our mind. Be patient with yourself while you undergo these changes. These thoughts didn't form in a day and won't be gone so soon. Hence, it is okay if we need to work on them a little longer, if need be. Change the thinking and change your thoughts and change the words that you speak; change the life you are creating for yourself. It is all in the mind.
In A Course in Miracles it states, 'My thoughts do not mean anything,' and follows on with, 'This idea will help to release me from all that I now believe.' This practice releases us from the thoughts that are creating an impact on our lives. When we keep saying 'I am not good enough', do you ever become good enough? Even to yourself?
By taking responsibility for your thoughts and situations, you are taking responsibility for your existence. By doing that, not only does your soul benefit, but also everyone around you. The change is just not for you, it is for others around you too. It doesn't take much time and support is very important. You can do it on your own, but support from the family or friends can boost it and benefit them as well.
I brought this habit into my family by having the positive reminders and word arts around the home. I incorporated this in my paintings as well, using positive words in between artworks. So, anyone in our home reading these can benefit from it.
Just accept how you feel instead of pushing it away, because that is half the battle won. Once you push it then it all goes into the dumping ground. The longer we have the dumping ground, the harder it becomes to start cleaning it. But, don't forget, it is still be doable with time and patience.
Thoughts hurt you more than the act. Change the thoughts to loving and love yourself and the people around you. We need to listen more to our hearts than our heads to change the course of the thoughts.

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
Never leave yourself in the past. Bring it along with you and work with it like a team. Set it free and move forward with no baggage. You can change your thoughts the way you want.


'Change the words and change the thoughts.'

— Andrea Gardener







5
THE UNIVERSE SUPPORTS YOU

'Look at the sky. We are not alone. The whole universe is friendly to us and conspires only to give the best to those who dream and work.'

— A.P.J. Abdul Kalam
We are part of this universe and we will never be left alone. Trust in this fact. It could be that we are trying to find where we belong and to find ourselves in the dark. Once you come into the light, you will find positive uplifting and a beautiful life. We are all energy and we resonate by the vibrations we are sending out; like a signal and asking for signs.
Every thought creates vibrations, and these vibrations are like sound waves or radiations. No obstacles or hurdles can stop them. So watch out what thoughts you are creating to get the desired support from the universe.
Universe is Within Us
There are times I felt lonely, not knowing who is with me in this journey. At times, I knew deep within me that the universe was always backing me up. God is within us, not outside. This is the lesson I clearly remember learning from my dad at a young age. We went to temples to find peace and for the calming energy they provided. Believing in yourself is believing in God. God is always with you and supporting you. But remember, anyone can support you only if you are ready to walk along not when you are not in an active state to make changes or you prefer to be on your own path. The choice is yours.
I see the universe as our ladder, supporting us. But with our eyes open, we only see the ladder and not the energy behind it which is pushing us to move forward. When God is in within me, why worry that I am alone. Yes, in the physical realm I may be alone but not in the bigger picture. When I let go of the EGO (Edging the God Out), I can see I am surrounded with loved ones from all realms, even in the physical one. I have a strong support system. Why would anyone want to be alone? Do we feel that way because we want to? Or have we closed the doors and are not letting any light in? Remember, even in darkness there is the light of hope.
You are Not Bigger than Your EGO
You are never alone, even if you think you are. The universe backs you. The divine force that is driving us all will keep us going even when we fall off the wagon. It is the nature of the universe and how it supports us. Sometimes, the support comes in by making us lift ourselves off the ground rather than doing all the lifting itself. Don't we, too, sit back, watch our kids stand up from the ground after a fall, rather than jumping off the chair every time?
Universe does act as our crutch at times, but only in deep needs of the soul. It has its own way of communicating to us and helping and sorting us out. We need to be ready to ask, hear, listen, and take actions.
During a spiritual awakening, many realise that they are the centre of the universe and the universe is centred in them. Spirituality grows inside as the universe opens within, stretching out more and more, spreading forever, beyond the galaxy, the planets, and the stars. Back into our everyday world, life is centred around who has the authority, the loudest voice in the room, or anything or anyone who gets our attention. More often than not, we feel a victim of events rather than the creator of them. This is what is the most difficult for people who have had a spiritual experience to try to explain. We create and choose our own reality. In the normal world, this seems very insensitive and wrong, as if saying that all suffering is chosen. But in the spiritual realm, after finding such a large universe of unlimited being, in context of this vast self, the parts of life which include suffering are seen in a different perspective.
Trust in the universe and set yourself on the ladder of life. This is what I call support; just like knowing that the parents are around, watching while the child is playing, as it is a reassurance for the child even when he/she doesn't turn its back often to recheck.

Believing is seeing, but seeing is not believing

— John 11:38-57
The Magic of Life
The universe always supports us and shows us what we need when as per the divine plan. You need not 'see' the universe to trust that it supports you all the time. It is the mirror effect; you have to learn by the experiences that are being created. We, as humans, might think it is coincidence, but no, it has always been predefined. Look back in your life and see the moments when you were at a low point in your life with no hope and you saw a sign in the shape of a book, or a friend, or a stranger offering help. This is the universe's way of watching over you and supporting you and giving the right experience and help when required. It was helping us stretch our limit because we can.
Remember, only when a person enjoys music can he perform well and with all the tough challenges coming in the way, he can face them and win it. Survival of the fittest!

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
When you work in your own dharma, you follow your truth. You make your choices and no one else. It is your destiny. Don't let anyone write it on your behalf as that is not for you; they are not your words either.
So far, all my life my parents have guided me on what to do and what not to. They made my choices for me for my education and life partner, too. Now, when I am following my dharma, it is very hard as I need to recreate my beliefs and relearn how to live my life by my choices and my terms. Sometimes, it could be hard but you need to trust your IG© and the universe.
Today, when my relationship is being built with my IG©, I am happy to make my choices and live by them, even if they are not exactly as per THE plan. Deep down, this connection with my IG© helps me to do what I meant to do, even though I grew up to be something else. It was always meant to be that way. Those experiences and challenges and learnings you may have experienced meant to be there to take you where you are now. No regrets, no looking back. I see these as the ground work for what we are doing now.
When you have to reach the top of a mountain, you need to climb through muck, loose pebbles, falls, etc., before you shine at the top of the mountain. And a detour is always a lesson to be learned.
As I started stepping up into my light, I started seeing opportunities that I was not prepared for. Like showing up for talks on the radio and TV all at the same time. I only knew deep within that I was supported and that I had to do this. These situations were out of my comfort zone and I had to stretch myself to those limits because I enjoyed doing this while working on my self-limiting beliefs.
Learning to follow my IG© and show how a life can be changed and transformed is the message I would like to send out through this book.
As Lao Tzu said, 'Music in the soul can be heard by the universe.'
'I choose to see that the universe always supports me.'








6
INNER POWER

'Trust in your Inner Power and miracles will happen.'

— Deshwal Sachin
Inner power is something that we have always had. It is not something you gain or can be attuned to at a ceremony or a ritual. It is as simple as a baby trying to crawl or learning to drink milk for the first time. It is something we have all been gifted with naturally. But we often forget its existence; sometimes we need to remind ourselves of this natural gift and train this muscle to be stronger. When you crawl for the first time, you slip or you tip over or fall on your face. Working with your inner power is no different to those in the learning curve.
Senses
I see our inner power as one of our five senses, including our gut senses. Yes, these are always with us and no one can take away this gift. Only you can hide it or bring it forth as your strength. It is your choice whether to accept these gifts. Some of us are naturally good at it, and some are not. My eldest daughter has a strong sense of smell compared to her visual ability as of now, and my youngest is quite the opposite. They both equally have to train their dormant senses to use and benefit from, if they want to.
Just like them, we all have our hidden gifts we can awaken and use for our benefit and for others around us. When we step into our power, all the changes happen according to our life's path.
Power is knowingness; that tingling sensation in your abdomen. The sense of anxiety. The butterfly must be fluttering kind of feeling. I also see inner power as a close friend of fear. When you step into the power, fear comes along too. Don't be afraid of this friend. Welcome and become a friend. Understand the fear. Where is it coming from and why? What is it trying to help you with? Rather than always saying it is a negative emotion, fear can get us out of comfort too.

'The wise seek power within themselves. The foolish seek it within others. Until you harness the power within yourself, I cannot teach you.'

— Jackie Chan
Like I said earlier, I had a fear of public speaking due to some childhood issues. But when I questioned it, I was said to challenge it. And now I am happy to speak in front of people with no fear. But fear also helps me to prepare and get my homework done and helps me accept my gifts.
Remember, our inner power is the one that keeps us all safe. If you didn't have your inner power, how would you protect yourself in danger or your loved ones? In these situation, your IG© is always connected with the inner power and works as a team to keep us safe.
I Can Do It
We need to only call upon that inner power to discover who we are, what we can trust, and how we should act. It is like awakening ourselves. We are all blessed with our own pool of gifts and inner power and we need to awaken them. I heard many clients saying I am not worth anything, I am not good at anything, and when we start this conversation it is like a thin string being connected to that inner power. This little string is shedding a light deep within, to the hidden inner power, and slowly shows itself and comes out. It could be something someone has been praising you for all your life, but you took it for granted. Just like your baking skills or being a creative designer at weddings. You don't need to be professionally qualified; it just comes to you very naturally. It is your true personality, who you are authentically.
Inner power turns to love, which is residing in each one of us. Turn back and love yourself and ignite the spark of power within. The journey of life is exciting when you challenge your own weaknesses and look up to what your inner power gets to do for you.
The way that helped me to connect with my inner power is by maintaining a spiritual practice and showing up to it every single day. Since 2010, I have been practicing reiki every single day. I also do self-healing every day, even if only for a minute or five minutes. It is my non-negotiable practice I signed up for. This helped me to stay stronger, know my strengths, and connect with my inner power which helped me to give rebirth to myself.
To activate your thymus gland, which is located between heart and throat chakra, will also help in activating the inner power and your spiritual centre. You can gently tap on this point to awaken it or ask you IG© to activate this chakra gland to connect to your inner power. Remember, it is the intention that matters.
Look within you and take note of what you enjoy doing and show up to it. Be it dance, music, meditation, art, reiki, etc. I show up and shine my light as far as God can see it.

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
You hold the power, don't let anyone take it away. You are stronger than what you think you are. Love yourself unconditionally. Honour who you are and your strengths.








7
SELF-REALISATION

'I've learned that people will forget what you said, people will forget what you did, but people will never forget how you made them feel.'

— Maya Angelou
Self-realisation is the moment that you realise that the mind, body, and soul are connected and it is you who interacts with them. It is one of the hardest life lessons to be learned and I consider myself too young to speak about this. But I can only share my own experiences and how you can lay the path towards it. According to Vedanta, selfless love is actually an attribute of self-realization.
As a child, I was a questioner and always wondered, 'Who am I? Why am I here? There are billions of people on the planet and why was I chosen to be born? What should I be doing?' Only when I started working on my chakras and accessing the Akashic records did I have a clearer picture of my goals and mission in life. That was the rebirth of my soul. Everything felt clear, even my sufferings. I started to understand why I chose suffering and what I had learned out of them over the years. It was like the mist had been removed from my eyes. It was the awakening of my power inside me. The power of survival for the right reasons.
God Is Within Us
Growing up, I learned that there is God in each and every one of us and that we must respect each other. When we respect and trust, then we release the outcome of the result to be in sync with our higher self. Also, when you don't try and control everything, things turn out better. Think about this: If you control a kite, will it fly high? If you exercise just enough control to tame it, will it fly high? Control makes the result to be what you want it to be rather than what could have been better for us. My controlling attitude had got me into a place of worry and sleeplessness. I would think I had to control everything in my home which was not required.

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
Always detach yourself from the outcome because you have no control. In case it is beyond your wildest imagination, you need to be extremely grounded; if it is on a different track in alignment to your soul, your physical self will be led to disappointment. So leave it to be at its own divine time. Timing is everything, but, more importantly, trust yourself and the God within you. Nothing before and nothing afterwards, including your birth or end. So, why must we pass the time by thinking things that are beyond our control? Just let the universe do its part while we do our part of the teamwork. Works well in harmony, right?

Controlling
Control stems from our fears. Fear of losing, fear of missing the mark of our expectations, etc. Replace fear with trust. Trust your own self and let this new space created be wild with imagination and creativeness.
My other controlling moments were thoughts about death. Especially the death of my loved ones. Now I am starting to accept it as is because why worry and lose the moments of now for something that is going to happen much later in the future? Make the most of now, and when it does happen, there is nothing we can change about it. We can only prepare ourselves and look after each other. Don't forget to cherish the now because memories are all that we have got that we can control. Being in this spiritual work actively for the past 7 years has made me realise that death is nothing but the soul moving to a different room while being in the same house. There is only a thin wall between us from where we can hear them or see them as well.
As A Course in Miracles states, 'My salvation comes from me. Nothing outside of me can hold me back. Within me is the world's salvation and my own.' The best gift you give yourself is the gift of acceptance. Be truthful to your own self. Be honest. Accept yourself as you are. In darkness, this is the light you will find in accepting yourself.







Sutra 3
LOVE IS ABOVE ALL

'Your task is not to seek for love, but merely to seek and find all the barriers within yourself that you have built against it.'

— Rumi








1
SHINE YOUR LOVE
All I need is a hug,
To say all is okay.
All I need is comfort,
To say I am with you.
All I need is time,
To say I am with you.
All I need is a smile,
To say you can do it.
All I need is love,
To say I always love you.
I love myself.
Life is simple and all we need for survival is love. Only love can make us better human beings. Love is the most important ingredient for survival and to the person you are now. I know the value of unconditional love and how important it is for your soul nourishment. It is my soul's mission to learn how to spread it. The journey never starts when one is empty. But starts when one is full and have something to give. It took me years to fill my bowl with love before I was able to give it.
Journey of Love
Loving myself was truly a gift and a journey deep into soul connection. Louise Hay has been an inspiration to us all with her work on self-love. I was so shy to even stand in front of the mirror and look beyond my face. We were always taught that loving ourselves is a selfish act. Here we are required to undo the learnings. I know how hard it is for people to say, 'I love myself,' and to love themselves unconditionally.
If you are like me in this journey, I would recommend to visualise doing it before you actually stand in front of the mirror to do it. You will see the intention of loving yourself working though it before you are physically prepared.
As I began to love myself, I freed myself of anything that was not good for my health—food, people, things, situations, and everything that drew me down and away from myself. At first, I called this attitude 'healthy egoism'. Today I know it as 'love of oneself' as Charlie Chaplin said.
Unconditional Love
Love isn't love until its unconditional and with no expectations. We are not experiencing who we really are until we experience our perfect love. Love for your own self is the way we need to begin. Only if you have your heart full of love for yourself can you give and share and expect it to come back. No matter what happens in our lives, if love is with us, we are always victorious in everything in life. Nothing is tougher than us which can defeat us. And all love always begins with self-love.

'Where there is no love, put love, and you will find love.'

— Saint John
In order to find love, you need to place love first. It could be to yourself, in work, in relationships, in praying, or any other act. Love is everywhere. We need to open up to see it, feel it, and give it.
I never knew what I was looking for at the time, which was the hardest thing before starting my journey. But my soul knew I was ready for the change. Never doubt your capabilities. You are doing your best with what you are. Life is a simple equation. But things get complicated and we make it difficult with our own thoughts and expectations. Be like a baby; when we came into the world, we brought smiles. So remember to sit back and be gentle with yourselves. Take a deep breath and spread the unconditional love to the world. The world needs you.

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
Just for today, try loving yourself. Buy flowers, write a letter to praise yourself, or do anything else that says you appreciate yourself. Don't wait for someone to bring in love, and anything that gives you pleasure, do that. You will soon notice that you are radiating from the inside out. Your IG© will appreciate you more. The way you feel loved is the same feeling that you get when you stare into the moon on a clear night and the stars are shining their bright light which, in turn, lights up our hearts. Love yourself; you are unique and amazing.
Love is everywhere. It is just that we need to be open to receive it and feel it. Shine your love and shine your light.








2
SELF-CARE
'Love is not something you search for.
Love is not something you wait for.
Love is not coming 'one day'.
Love won't ride in on a horseback.
You can't manipulate someone to get their
love.
You can't manipulate yourself either.
If you can win love, it is not trustable.
If you can lose love, it is not really love.
Love is here, neither found nor lost.
But here.
The more desperately you seek love,
the more you communicate to the universe
that you are unworthy of it.
Your job is not to seek love, then, but to be it.
Know it as your essence.
Feel it infuse your very being.
Feel it drip in your in-breath
and shimmer through your out-breath.
Call off the search.
Love is You!'
— Jeff Foster
What is self-care? It is the process of looking after yourself. To be good to yourself. To be your own best friend. To hug yourself. To say in the mirror that you are amazing and beautiful inside out.
Valentine's Day is a special day celebrated all over the world. It's great to see one day dedicated for love. Love is everything and love is my religion. We are all living a busy life; more and more is being put on the conveyor belt system from morning till night. We don't have time to express our love; social media and greeting cards are the only ways through which we tell others how important they are to us.
Express your love more often to others and, more importantly, to yourself. It is a great feeling; I love celebrating it, too. Why not dedicate a day in a week or a month to do exactly what you need for self-care? Look around, no one is stopping you other than yourself. Say it out loud and clear as to why you need this self-care time and how valuable it is for your emotional growth.
Most of the clients who come to me to find out more about their love lives from their angels, have always been directed to self-love and -care. It is amazing how they make us realise how valuable we are supposed to be to ourselves.
As Thich Nhat Hanh says, 'To be beautiful means to be yourself. You don't need to be accepted by others. You need to accept yourself.'
Celebrate Love
Take this day and moment to celebrate you—the existence of you, the reason you are here. Remember, you are unique, beautiful, and wonderful just as you are. Love yourself unconditionally and accept everything that you are.
Define your love towards yourself. If you love yourself, you will never be disappointed. Self-love is everything. When you have love, everything else can be fixed.
You have got one chance, one life, and this is the time to live it fully. Yes, now I don't wait for someone to bring me happiness and flowers. I make the effort to get it myself and bring that happiness. Invite the happiness to your world. Let this happiness transform to love.

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:

Use this as mantra 'I love myself' regularly to raise your vibrations and start with mind chanting. Later, progress to saying it out loud. Let the universe hear you. Remind yourself that you are loved by your IG©. No matter how you treat yourself, your IG© always cares for you and loves you unconditionally.


'If you love yourself, you love others, if you hate your-self you hate others, because in relationships with others it is only you mirrored.'

— Osho

While growing up, I spent less time with dad as he was away working in different states in India and would only get to see him for few days in a month. And that made the time we spent with him even more special. On the other hand, my mom was the homemaker; she was always there for me 24/7. So much hard work; on the days I would forget my lunch box at home, she would walk and come to school and feed me. I never accepted this love physically nor appreciated it enough until I moved away. I missed all that warmth.
When I look back, I realise that my mom was always a giver. She never asked for help and so, in turn, never received any. She had very little time for self-care in her life, and zero motivation for it. But just because our parents didn't feel the need for it, doesn't mean we can't. In their years, no one had enough support to care or the knowledge to know that it was vital. And it is! Don't feel guilty while indulging in self-care. Be happy that you are changing the trend and teaching yourself and your kids. Now when my mom is around, I treat her to a manicure/pedicure, or pamper her with a nice trip to a restaurant or the shopping mall.
Don't wait until you come to a crossroad in your life to make your life choices. Make baby steps towards your heart's desires. Self-love and self-acceptance are the same. If you love yourself enough, you won't look for approval from the outside. Acceptance gives us the experience of never judging, never criticising, and never worrying. It is ideal and achievable, don't you think?
You Are Precious
Be your own best friend. Be your own cheerleader when you have no external system to support you. Be your own biggest fan. Best friends love you unconditionally. They always bring out the best in us. Become that BFF (Best Friend Forever) for your own self. Be gentle, kind, and empathic towards yourself. Forgive yourself for the past; there is nothing holding you back. Be honest and truthful. Be the mirror and speak to the soul. Do constructive criticism. Yes, we make mistakes but learn from them. Be the grounding foundation for your soul.
Love Affair
Love can never be exclusive. The sun does not choose to shine on some flowers in the garden and not on others. Similarly, your love should shine on everything that makes you—your stretch marks, the fat around the waist, your anger, your sadness, the depleting hairline, etc. The secret key to the greatest door called love is acceptance. Love is inclusive and has many faces—caring, listening, and sharing from the heart. It is accepting someone for what they are right now and not expecting any changes or seek nothing in return.
I was given this great analogy by my masters in a dream, the body is nothing but a dress we wear. Look deep within the soul rather than just concentrating on what we are wearing right now. Every night, ask yourself, 'Have I given enough self-love today?'

'Youcansearchthroughouttheentireuniverse for someone who is more deserving of your love and affection than you are yourself, and that person is not to be found anywhere. You yourself, as much as anybody in the entire universe deserve your love and affection'

— Buddha
Try this meditation:

Sit comfortably in a chair. Take a relaxing breath. Relax your legs, hips, and shoulders.

Breathe in from abdomen ... breathe out.
As you breathe in, notice the belly rising up and filling in the air. Gently breathe it all out (repeat the process 3 times).
Imagine yourself in the garden of love. No one is there. Just you.
Smell the fresh air and grass, hear the birds singing and the grass dancing for the gentle breeze. Notice the trees' playfulness. Let your thoughts dance in and go with the flow. Watch the bees kissing the flowers, and little butterflies flapping their wings. This is the heaven of thoughts. Now, pay attention to the physical body from your garden of thoughts. Bring this sense of unconditional love and welcome it into your soul. You know you can come back to this heaven anytime you want.
Slowly and gently bring your attention back to the room and the surroundings. Open your eyes when ready.








3
THE POWER OF WORDS

'Words can inspire. And words can destroy. Choose yours well.'

— Robin Sharma
As sayings go, words are more powerful than a sword; they do go deep in us. They have the power to be both constructive and destructive. Words are power. Once we deliver the words, we have no control over what effects they bring. They can only be forgiven but never forgotten. Using your words wisely is the wisdom you gain while being on the spiritual path. As per Proverbs 12:18, 'There is one whose rash words are like swords thrust, but the tongue of the wise brings healing.'
It has always been said not to use harsh words; but I would, at times, lose my cool and use mean words to convey it to my family. I would then get more upset with myself for saying something I shouldn't have. Yet, no matter what, my family always loved me back. Now, I have learned to control my temper and take the courage to apologise. I know what it's like to hear harsh words and speak them. Since then, I stopped being harsh, even to my own self.
In a situation where I have to act, I take time or take a deep breath and picture my words before I shoot them out. I'd rather be silent than speaking when my emotions are high. Take responsibility for the words that come out of you. No matter what the external circumstances may be, it is you who has the controls for it.
Words Have Vibrations
When I was learning reiki, my master told me a story that I was fascinated by. It is not a new concept but it clicked with me instantly explaining the power of words. Here is goes: There were a few people travelling by boat when strong winds and rain came upon them. Everyone started panicking, and fear made everyone think that they were going to sink and die. Guess what? The boat did sink in the sea.
Simultaneously, there was another boat passing by. The people in it started chanting, 'We will be safe. We will reach our destination safely.' And guess what? They reached the shore safely. That's the impact of words on our lives. Words have vibrations and this is what they can do to the vibration of the earth and the universe. Whatever you say, the universe hears and gives it to us. So, watch out for what you ask and pray for.
While learning reiki, I started reading Andrea Gardner's Change Your Words, Change Your World. It changed my world. This is when my affirmations practice became strong and I started to believe in them. I hear people saying, 'I never have enough money.' How can you attract and give your circumstances an opportunity to be different if no choice is given? Instead, say, 'I attract abundance to live happily.' Notice the effect.
Another is 'I am not loved'. Change this to 'I am lovable and everyone loves me' and see the changes it brings. Doing this was the most miraculous moment of my life as it opened me up to the love around me that I didn't recognise before.
Words Are Like A Game
Positive words keep us positive. This includes self-talk and talk to others around us and to the universe as well. Even to a child who is not doing well at a particular subject, shower a few positive words and see them prosper and shine. If the teachers and/or parents keep harping negative words around him, he would close up and not do great even if he is passionate about the subject.
There is a prayer that I use which helps me refine the words that I use, before they come out of my mouth:
Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in Your sight, O Lord, my Strength and my Redeemer.' — Psalm 19:14
I also ask the Archangel Michael to place the right words in my thoughts as I deliver a speech or communicate on challenging situations.
Some time ago, I noticed that I was feeling tired and constantly in need of caffeine, particularly on Mondays. I was not able to focus on my work and needed the day to finish sooner than later. I soon realised that I was surrounded by many such people like me who didn't feel excited at the start of a week or who were always tired. A few things that I realised were that most of us weren't sleeping well due to the thought of work, routines, mechanical life, etc. Even after the weekend we would say, 'Oh gosh, it is Monday already. Where did my weekend go?'
It is very important to think about how we are going to spend our day. If we think about it in a negative way, the day is going to go badly. However, if we think positively and smile and wake up, our day is miraculously going to be fun, happy, wonderful and easy-going. Stop worrying, stop complaining about what our God hasn't given us; appreciate what you have and show gratitude to attract more in your life.
So, by the third Monday, I tried to think differently, by being conscious of how I was feeling in the morning in general. It had an amazing effect and I would highly recommend it to anyone wanting to change how they feel at the start of every week. Unless we try we won't know if it works!

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
When you first wake up and open your eyes, here are some affirmations you can try:

'I am having a great day already.'
'What a beautiful day it is.'
'I love myself for who I am.'
'I am going to have a fun-filled day.'
'Miracles are going to happen today.'
'I am going to be surrounded by happy souls and positive things.'
'Every thought I think is creating my future.'

An affirmation is a beginning point; it opens the way. In a way, you are saying to your subconscious mind, 'I am taking responsibility. I am aware that there is something I can do to change.' If you continue to say the affirmation, either you will be ready to let whatever it is go, and the affirmation will become true, or it will open a new avenue for you.
Open your eyes. If you are surrounded by your loving partner, greet them with a smile and wish them a happy day and give kisses and hugs to your children. By doing this, not only you are benefitted, but also your family. You can say these affirmations while still in bed or print them out to keep on the bedside or stick to your wall.








4
BIRD'S-EYE VIEW OF LIFE

'There are only two ways to live your life. One is as though nothing is a miracle. The other is as though everything is a miracle.'

— Albert Einstein
Life is always multi-dimensional. If you look at a coin, it has 2 sides. Our lives are no different. We get to see only one side of it at a point in time. But, at times, it becomes a necessity to look at the other side as well, to get the full picture. When life throws us a challenge, it is always helpful to look at the bird's-eye view of the situation before making any decision or drawing any conclusion.
I have felt sad for myself many times before I started analysing the situation, especially when other people were involved. It helped me not only to understand myself better but, also, to accept the truth or forgive someone. This is something I struggled with quite a lot for too many years, like many of us. I blamed everyone else for my own choices. I didn't accept the love of my husband until I was fully able to accept myself. Accepting myself with all my pride and issues was a big deal. I had to relearn being worthwhile to my own self first.
We also need to be compassionate enough to listen to others and take their opinions or suggestions. Life is a puzzle that we go on solving and only get to see the bird's-eye view when we make a conscious choice.
There is a reason and purpose for all the things that happen and will happen in future. But, right now, it is not important to know that. The magic of each day will be banished if you wake up and know exactly what's going to happen and when, right? It is like writing an exam; only the questions are revealed and the answers will be the path we need to go through. When you open your intuition portal, you are much aware of the bird's-eye view of life. This will be covered in the next sutra.
Healing From Akashic Realms
Being in Akashic records/realms, the masters have showed me the life of us—how we get caught up in the minor things and lose the focus on the bigger picture of our lives. Imagine it to be like all the cables interlocked. It looks like a mess and only when we try detangling it all, it reveals itself like a puzzle which acts like a bridge to all the connections back to life. We are all the same in the eyes of God. No one person has more difficulties and suffering than the other. We choose our 'baggage' to our capacity and allowance.
The point is not to compare but to see yourself to be unique. Ask if the other person is happy in all aspects of their life. The masters have emphasised how to love yourself even more to attract the best for yourself and others at the time.
Firstly, accept what you have as an issue and then go forward with the journey. Ask yourself, 'Now what?' Get into the solution mode. Sometimes, I thank the universe for giving me the challenge to get me to be much stronger than I was. And mostly, I face it all with courage and braveness to win it over.
Change The Radar
Looking at your life from a bird's point of view is how you can gain control on your objectives. When we view life situations, we must keep in mind the radar at which they were created because the solution will also be around the same radar. Just like when Columbus first said, 'The earth is round, not flat.' Not many agreed with him and thought he was crazy. He had to fight these beliefs in order to get men to sail with him. But now, we all praise him for his vision.
This is the change you need for your shift in thoughts. You need to believe in yourself and the IG©.
No one gets you? No one understands you? We all have felt similarly from time to time. And, yes, people may not understand you sometimes because they themselves might not have experienced the situation before and so don't know what is it that you are going through. So why do you want to convince someone? Are you looking for self-pity?
When we go to a blind person and explain what a rose looks like, he can only imagine it but never truly experience it. Just like we don't understand the scientific jargon if we haven't studied the subject. Similarly, have you tried explaining your loved ones how you feel, before judging or deciding that they don't understand? Have you taken that first step towards self-exploration and given time to yourself?
Better View
Consider yourself to be in the middle floor of a building. Your view will be different to the people on the top floor or the ground floor. So, how do you expect them to see exactly what you do? Unless they are exactly at the same place as you, how will they relate to you a 100 per cent? And how many people can fit in the same place as you at this moment, to view what you wanted to show?
Not many, right? So, leave the job of trying to explain yourself to others; think about how you can make your life better with the challenges you have today. Sometimes it does not help trying to explain things to everyone, but to speak to your own self and explain your IG© what happened.
Better views come into place when we head inside us. Always have life's big picture in place. That's the main thing. Your mission and goals are needed to bring in balance on earth. And this keeps you anchored from your daily busy life detours. Have your objectives in clear sight and aim high.

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
Take a moment to think about what is it that you want to achieve in your life. Where do you see yourself in life? What is obstructing you right now? Are you hiding YOU from your own self? If so, show up and see where can the fun start together.
Write in your journal what you feel and how you can plan it out. Clarity only comes in easily when the connection to your IG© is strong.
At one point, my life was all muddled up. I had no light and no vision and not much to look forward to the next day. If you are in that situation, you are not alone. We all reach our rock bottom at some point or another. But we manage to move forward. It is like going to the airport and checking for your boarding gate. Many of us come from different destinations and backgrounds but stop here and recheck where the journey will take us forward. And, finally, we continue on the path and do reach our destinations.








5
BEAUTY OF SAYING NO
'No is a complete sentence and so often we forget that.
When we don't want to do something, we can simply smile and say no.
We don't have to explain ourselves, we can just say 'No'.
Early on my journey, I found developing the ability to say no expanded my ability to say yes and really mean it.
My early attempts at saying no were often far from graceful but with practice even my no came from a place of love.
Love yourself enough to be able to say yes or no.'
— Susan Gregg
Saying no was something we were taught to be bad. We were always told to please everyone, to put everyone else's needs first. But later on in life, it becomes important to stand up for yourself. Because pleasing everyone is an extremely tiring job. But when self-care becomes priority, saying no gets easier.
We are sensitive people and light workers. We take things personally, we cry, and we feel emotional. We take the blame for everything. Anything in moderation is okay, but think about why you are doing this and for whom. It is important for you to make changes that benefit you. Stand up for yourselves because no one else will. When we stand up, we find our own tribe.
Saying no is a choice and it is a habit you will form to create who you want to be today. You are doing this so you can fill yourself with more joy, happiness, smiles, and love. All this is achievable only when you are ready to take the step in prioritising yourself. Remind yourself that by saying no, you are creating space for yourself and welcoming something else that is valuable in your life.

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
Before you say no, step back and have clear answers for the following questions:

Why do you want to say no?
Is there a self-benefit in doing so?
Are you happy doing it?
Will it be helpful for your soul's purpose?
Are you ready to do it?


Once you are clear, it becomes easier. You don't need to think twice because you have already done your homework.
Think of a situation you wish you had said no to and take this moment to go back to the day and time of it. Feel that situation in your body right now. Imagine you are changing your decision; breathe in the silence and relax your body. With all the prep done for it, step into this new YOU and change your decision to say NO. Deep down, you know you've made the right choice. Now, step in with your shoulders relaxed and calm body and say it out loud with confidence.
It could be a conversation you were visualising between you and your partner or saying no to your boss for after-hours work. Or saying no to the kids for ice-cream while they are ill. It is time to step up for the right reasons and for your own goodness.
By saying no, I felt I had more positive energy by creating the space for things I wanted to do. It made me be who I wanted to be. But I didn't say no for the sake of it; it never became an ego issue. I only said when I had to. For example, after a long day of workshop teaching, I would need the wind-down time to rejuvenate. But, if in case an invite for a get together were to come along, and I was unable to decline it, my energies might get even more depleted which would affect my emotions and well-being. This is not good for anyone. But, when I spend time with myself in a bath or with a herbal tea to relax, I make space for my soul to grow and this is what makes space for the future. The choice is always ours as to how we want to create the space and time.
You Did It
Yes, it is that easy. 'No.' In case it didn't go well, repeat it again. It is a way of practicing with yourself or rewiring your brain to the right nodes and progressing further. Believe in yourself. You can do it. These new changes will take time to sync in and will be great once you feel and see things opening up as a result. Of course, each scenario we may say no to is teaching a greater lesson and each experience is different.
You can say yes, and you can say no. The choice of choosing depends on what you want and what your IG© is asking of you for your highest and best.
How To Strengthen Your Answers
Let's be clear; it takes a lot of patience and practice.
Learning when and how, to whom and what we say yes or no to is a lifelong lesson as it depends on a myriad of situations, people involved, and the state of your mind. By learning to say no, you are valuing yourself and prioritising yourself.
Keep it simple! Replace 'no' with 'I'm not okay with this' and see the difference.
Reasoning
When you wake up, ask your IG© to help you be in conscious and divine sync so that the choices you make are for your highest good and in line with soul choices. Say no can sometimes be a shock to the person who is used to your constant yes.
So be gentle to him/her or the situation you are calling in your no. Voluntarily, give yourself permission to say no to doing things that make you unhappy and yes to the things you'd rather do instead. And say it our loud so your inner critic hears it and feels uplifted.
You can say no to not just a person or a situation, but also to an aspect that causes inconvenience. For example, anger, sadness, bitterness, jealously, sluggishness, tiredness, etc. Apply the same concept to these aspects and let them blow away like bubbles and fill that space with love, happiness, excitement, and energy.
Never give your power away by saying yes.







6
KINDNESS

'Kindness is a language which the deaf can hear and the blind can see.'

— Mark Twain
Kindness is being good to yourself, to start with, and also being kind to others. When you are kind, it multiplies and returns back. The more good wishes and kind feelings we have for others, the more our own happiness increases. Kindness in words creates confidence. Kindness in thinking creates profoundness. Kindness in giving creates love.
'Love dissolves hate.
Kindness melts cruelty.
Compassion calms passion.
Cooperation evokes love and when bow, others bend.
This creates harmony.'
— Mastin Kipp
I was taught by my mom and mom-in-law that love always wins and this experience came in when my eldest child was growing up. This one time, I was scolding her for being messy, which is her right to be, at times, as a child. They both then taught me how to calm my voice down and to speak with love. It is the language they understand and not the language of screams. It was amazing what and how my daughter was magnetised to them with love and would do anything they would say to her. Well, by now, I am getting the hang of the trick, I have to say. In the end, only kindness matters and that is what anyone will remember you by. They are the biggest critics with no artificial layers. They speak the truth with no filters; they express themselves so well. They say what they feel. If you can win the heart of a child, you have won the biggest battle.
Kindness To Yourselves
Now, we are all being taught in schools how to be kind to others and how being kind is good, etc. We even celebrate 'kindness week' and emphasise on it enough in our daily lives, but do we emphasise the same level of insistence to our own selves? For me, kindness to others is as important as kindness to oneself.

'The most powerful relationship you will ever have is the relationship with yourself.'

— Steve Maraboli
Kindness is a language that first needs to be understood and then implemented. It is easier for others to learn from you and accept how to use it. Once you live it, show others how to.
Why Be Kind To You?
We always put the needs of others before us and this is how most of our families function. It is an age-old tradition; feed the children before you feed yourself. You will rarely see a mother who eats before her family does, even if she is not well. Like this, there are many examples that revolve around us.
We are mean to our own selves and don't give the respect we deserve. We, in turn, keep asking our partner, parents, children, etc., to care and respect us. Why? Start the kindness relationship cycle with yourself. This is the key to a healthy relationship with your IG©.
Kindness With Others
How can we be kind to others? By:

Sending them good thoughts.
Being yourself and being gentle to others.
Surrounding them with love and light.
Including them in your prayers.
Helping them where needed.


#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
Firstly, you don't need an approval to be kind to yourself. Fix a time and your intention with your IG© to get this approval sorted.
This is the first step towards your own happiness and you can implement the following to yourself and your loved ones for best results.

Drink plenty of water: Nourish your body with nutrients. Water is the first element to cleanse and fill your body easily.
Pump in more oxygen: Take nice gentle breaths form your belly.
Relax: Relax your feet and stretch your body including neck and hands. Ge gentle to yourself. Helps loosen the tight muscles.
Walk barefoot: Grounding and earthling helps you to be calm
Eat Healthy: Nourishing with what your body needs are very important. No matter what you consume, take it as a nourishment to your body. Rather creating distress in body.
Give Hugs: Yes, self-hugs very important. Raise your arms and gentle wrap them around you.
Technology disconnect: Yes, disconnect from technology and connect with your IG©. You will feel rewired and recharged.
Flowers: Buy flowers for yourself. You may start with one flower; the point is to not wait for someone to treat you.
Journal: Journal your emotions and feelings and be truthful to yourself. Have a good self-talk.
Prioritise me time: Me time is very important, even if it is 10 minutes a day.
Organise pampering time in the bath: Epsom salts, lavender oil, rose petals all help in calming down your mind, body, and spirit.

A simple affirmation that will change to bring in the above into practice: 'I am kind to myself.' This self-kindness and being compassionate towards yourself helps you to authentically be kind to others.








7
KARMA

'How people treat you is their karma; how you react is yours.'

— Dr Wayne W. Dyer
We are all under the influence of karma or negative energies, and surrounded by our positive thinking; sometimes ourselves knowingly or unknowingly lead to wrong path. It's okay it's part of life lesson too. When you realise change your thoughts and bring them back to yourself, and most importantly forgive yourself.
Giving Birth To Life, Not Karmic Actions
The same applies for the past; past actions have consequences to what we are going through today. My mom used to say this: 'As parents, we can only give birth and raise you, but not have any effect on your karmic actions.' When I learned accessing Akashic records, I got a full insight of these words through the readings. Yes, as parents we can bring the child into the world but cannot do anything to change their karmic actions of the past. We never escape the past but we can learn our lessons from it for the future. The more aligned you are to your IG©, the more you can work towards decreasing the negative karmic debt of the past.
Cause and Effect
The law of action has the biggest influence on karma—for every action, there will always be a reaction. It could be direct or indirect, but it does cause it.
There is physics involved in this subject. You are at a given place at a given point of time for a reason, which you may not be aware of. It is the game of life. If you didn't make the prior action, you wouldn't be here doing the steps. It applies to all the events in your life. It is leading with words, thoughts, emotions ... like a ripple effect in the sea with a pebble.
Below is a verse from the Bhagavad Gita:

brahmay ādhāya karmāi
sangam tyaktvā karoti yah
lipyate na sa pāpena
padma-patram ivāmbhasā

It means: The one who performs his duty without attachment, surrendering the results unto the Supreme Lord, is unaffected by sinful action, just as the lotus leaf is untouched by water.

'Our destiny was shaped long before the body came into being.'

— Tulsidas
This means that the stock of 'sanchita karma' i.e. accumulated karmas of all lifetimes (we are not here to deal with all karmic actions in this one lifetime only, but they will be learned in many lifetimes) is chosen before we reincarnate on earth. As per Hinduism, if it is not equated completely, a human soul cannot attain moksha (liberation) from the cycle of birth and death.
A mother feeds her baby only until the child's motor skills are developing. But if she keeps feeding the child, will the child ever learn how to feed himself/ herself? Karma is the same. We have to deal with it effectively and only then can we learn our lessons and cope well. It is just like a video game; to go to the next level, you must cross the hurdles in the current one. The next level will have its own set of difficulties, but you build on resistance and the learnings from the past come in handy, too.
Karmic Ties
When I learned the art of distance healing and to heal the past, I tried and tested most of the aspects of my past and was able to cut the cords to move myself into NOW, freeing up with space that was weighing me down. Past life and karmic issues that we have been holding and creating repeated patterns with will anchor us to our past and not let us move forward.
If you are serious about making changes in your life, see yourself as being successful at it. Close your eyes and imagine yourself the way you wish to be. See yourself being confident and proud of your achievement. Bring in other images to help—friends
congratulating you, the positive words they use, choose the setting for your success in your visualization. Hold on to the good feelings as you set about making changes. Remember, you can do this with no hurdles only when the space has been created for it. So, free up your space and bring in calmness.

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
There are a couple of ways that worked for me. As each one is different, I would recommend you to try them and see what comes up and how you feel about them to adapt to them:

Visualisation Meditation: This helps with the release instantly and you can simultaneously notice a shift. Say, for example, you are facing an issue in a relationship with a particular friend and want to release the negative effects. So, for it, sit silently, light a candle, and take a deep breath. Ask the Archangel Michael to step in to gently cut the cords of the negative energies that are tied to it and release them so it works well for your highest good. In some cases, you will immediately notice that you feel lighter, or it so happens that the person calls in and speaks to you in a gentle manner. I ask Archangel Michael nearly every day to set me free from any negative karmic debts and replace them with peace. It is very important to ask for it to be replaced with what you want. Some students have found it to be very impactful to do this on a full moon day.
Forgiveness helps in releasing the karmic ties. As you forgive, you are letting the intention of the cord to go and not attach to you. This helps in releasing and, in turn, for your highest good.
Repeat this prayer from the Upanishads as frequently as possible with a particular intention: 

— 'Dedicate yourself to the lord of life.
— Who is the life cause of the cosmos?
— He will remove the cause of all your suffering
— And free you from the bondage of karma.'



When you work from the place of pure service, you will be freed from the law of karma.








Sutra 4
INTUITION TO KNOWINGNESS

'I believe in intuitions and inspirations ... I sometimes FEEL that I am right. I do not KNOW that I am.'

— Albert Einstein








1
INTUITIONS
Intuition, to me, is that knowingness from my soul. You know, straight away, that it is right before the fears and self-doubts make space in your mind. It is the sixth sense of our existence. The 3rd eye chakra helps in opening up our intuition. The first moment I strongly remember knowing and using my intuition was when I married my husband. I was the least surprised when it happened. But thinking back, it was still scary.
There you go, the bird's-eye view of life being revealed. From then on, many intuitive moments came in and went by. Some I went with the flow, and some I treated with fear and let them pass by to learn my lesson. That is part of the deal. Your IG© knows the game of life. You are only making your move right now consciously.
It is like a game of snakes and ladders with your IG©—you climb the ladder and because of your self-doubts, you may fall back; but you have to just make the move again and keep moving forward until you succeed.
Everyone is born with intuition as their sixth sense. The more you acknowledge this sense, the more accurate you get at it. Intuition is like a muscle in our body; the more we exercise it, the stronger it becomes.
Believe and trust yourself. That is the first and foremost act before you start listening to your ego, clear your mind. You can do this by writing things down; emptying the mind helps in making space for this new practice. Start your 'Intuition Journal' so you can refer back to the previous intuitive events from time to time.
Your listening sense also needs to be activated. Listen with all your senses actively and calmly. Ask questions and listen to the answers you receive, and make notes to see what your intuition is saying. Your intuition can be very subtle. So, be very attentive in what you hear with no judgements.
Be Grounded
Connecting with nature could be as simple as hugging a tree or watering the plants in your own garden. This helps to be present as you soon start noticing what is around you. Place the soles of your feet to the earth; this is a way to ground yourself. Place a rose quartz or an amethyst crystal on your 3rd eye for a few minutes. This helps you in activating your 3rd eye chakra for intuition. Meditation helps as well in connecting to your intuition muscle and IG©. Meditation need not be for an hour. It could be as simple as 5-10 min to start with. Daily meditations—clearing your mind of repetitive thoughts and worries will make it easier to listen to your intuition. Find a meditative technique you are comfortable using and practice, or try breathing in and out deeply, which relaxes mind and body so you can me more clear. Above all, be willing to work on your techniques.

'If prayer is you talking to God, then intuition is God talking to you.'

— Dr Wayne W. Dyer
Intuition speaks only when we are quiet. We all have that muscle called intuition, but we don't look after it well or use it enough. I call it the 6th sense; an addition to our 5 senses. After learning reiki, I was so enthusiastic that I wanted to convert everyone into trying energy healing, to show how miraculously things can be changed. Only later, did I realise that everyone goes through the divine timing and I can't change everyone. The change in me will reflect, encouraging all the others to try various alternative options. You learn this valuable lesson only from experience.
The Healing Starts Within Us
In my classes, I remind my students don't rush into healing someone. The healing starts within us. Before we master anything, we need to try and apply the majority of scenarios to see the reflection. When you are a child, your parents always say to try the food before saying you don't it. Life is easy with simplicity. It is humans which complicate things by overthinking.
Before trying to master others, be sure you are the master of yourself.
Start With Baby Steps
Practice making decisions using your intuition in situations that don't matter very much. It is an effective and safe way to exercise that muscle. Listen to your gut, your stomach area, to see if the decision you are making is right or wrong. That knowingness you feel is your gut feeling. Sometimes, intuitions are misled fears and we must understand the difference. When an idea kicks in, notice how your body feels in that moment. If you feel excited, and feel you can do it and want to do it, it is your intuition telling you to move forward. However, when an idea kicks in and you feel like you are choking, suffocating, or in discomfort, then it is the not the right move to go ahead with it. Fear, either way, will be present but you need to focus on the intuition part and get going with it. Practice more and learn to trust yourself.

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
Affirmations work as well and here is one that I use regularly: 'My Intuition is always right. My decisions bring in abundance.'
Try these techniques and use them in decision-making or when you're at a crossroads in your life. Start practicing with small tasks and decisions.
I am sharing few tried and experimented ones below. Choose which suits you the best right now:

I used an amethyst crystal on my 3rd eye chakra while meditation and reiki healing session and consciously asked my IG© to awaken my gifts of intuition and whatever else that is right for me.
Chill out. Deep breathe and don't panic. When relaxed, things are easier.
Meditate. Keep up daily or weekly meditation practices and journal the wisdom that flows in.
Get some fresh air. Connecting to air and Mother Earth helps in grounding and relaxing.
Place your feet on the grass or sand and let them soak in.









2
TRUST

'I don't trust people who don't love themselves and tell me, "I love you." There is an African saying which is: Be careful when a naked person offers you a shirt.'

— Maya Angelou
It has been 15 years since I began my journey for a new life in Ireland. Moving from India as a 21-year-old, with fears of the unknown, carrying just a small bag, and accompanied by my new husband, whom I had married just 24 days prior, was a huge risk.
Fast forward to 15 years later, on a day when I attended Caroline Myss's workshop in 2015 in Dublin. Something she said stuck to me: 'If my grandparents can come with a ray of hope from Poland by boat to the USA and settle down, there is no other fear that can bring them down.'
No More Fears
These words also made me think that there are no more fears that can bring me down. I had already crossed my biggest fear in the past, and it is only my strengths that I will be moving forward with. I had conquered my fear at the young age of 21 and I was hopeful that nothing is tougher and that I can conquer anything that I am faced with. If any thought of fear arises, I remind myself of the day I flew for the first time to Ireland with my husband, and I move forward with a smile.
Replace fear with the trust that you have on yourself. Trust is what keeps us going forward, but isn't it amazing how we have programmed our minds to always trust someone else and not ourselves? As a child you would trust your parents and your siblings. Then, later, you would trust your teachers, and friends. When you are older, you trust your partner, and when you grow old, your own kids.
But never yourself.
Just for a change, trust your intuition and yourself and see what happens. Start with baby steps. You can do it. Smile at your fears. Your fears are always lowered when overpowered by your smile's vibrations. If you don't do it, no one will.
Explore The Gift of Who You Are
Learn and relearn about yourself and take the time to explore all the facets of your personality. Sometimes, we live a life for others, according to other's needs, wants, beliefs, comforts, etc. In that process, the real you will always get diluted. You are yourself until around the age of 6 or 7. From then, the change in your journey comes into place.
As a child, my favourite part in a playground was to find mica (the shining mirror flakes) in the sand. I would spend hours doing that and collect and bring home the treasures. It was more valuable to me than anything at that time; it would shine in the sunlight and my smiles used to lift up. Peering at the shine, my friends would follow. They would then shine their souls and spread the light around in the playground. I only now realise that when you shine you attract others.
It is the same in our lives; we need to search for the shimmer by digging deeper and deeper. Now is the perfect time. Begin the exploration.
Writing can be a healing journey and process. It is not about how you write, but what you write. It is all about letting the words out in a moment of time.
Always remember, your IG© is a 100 per cent part of you. It is not separate from you nor will it ever be. It trusts in you more than you trust your own self.
Just for Today, Trust Yourself
If we trust ourselves today, we are in control of the future. Nothing is tough. Trusting yourself is more natural than deliberate. If you notice babies, they trust their instincts more than anyone else. So, start today!
What is love? Love is eternal. If so, why do we feel unloved and unwanted from time to time? Why would that thought even arise? It's time to ask your IG©.

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
When you hear your IG©, never doubt it. Have faith in your IG© and yourself. Believe the words it tells you to be true. As Caroline Myss says, 'Truth is one but lies are many.' Sometimes, we just have to be wise enough to go with the flow. We have to put our trust in life and let the current carry us. But that doesn't mean we should take our eyes off our goal.
All you got is YOU; go on and trust that YOU.








3
CHALLENGES

'Everything you can imagine is real.'

— Pablo Picasso
Challenges are fun. I consider a life without challenges to be boring and mundane. Challenges stretch our boundaries and bring in awareness about our hidden talents. For example, you may be afraid of climbing a mountain. Your fear keeps making you consider the immense height of it which demotivates you even more. This can never allow you to climb it. But, if you were to actually start walking, one step at a time, you would realise that the challenge has been minimised. This way, once you climb the peak, you realise your huge achievement. In the same way, all you have to do in some life situations is to change the perception of the problem and take it step by step.
Do you often hear yourself saying 'I can do better than this, I wish I hadn't let go of that opportunity'? Let these negative thoughts go and convert them into 'I am doing my best, this opportunity may be better for my growth'. It will help you divert the focus completely on what you are meant to be doing and can do. Remember, you are doing your best.
You Didn't Choose
Remembering my childhood days, I would wish all my problems would fly away or hide under or be fixed before I wake up the next morning. Sometimes, I would wish I had never existed to deal with the issues that were laid out in front of me. During such times, it seemed that life was moving in no direction at all. I had no sense of satisfaction in anything I did. I was looking for a path. Why did God choose to create me? Surely not for my failures. Questioning my existence was a long journey I had to go through with God. Everything was misty back then. Looking back, I felt I didn't fit in this system, home, planet. Nothing felt mine.
In one way I wanted to escape from the world. I was constantly in search of a place that was mine or belonged to me.
In this process, I realised we didn't choose to suffer or struggle. That was not our purpose. Our purpose in life is much bigger than that. 'Why me?' always takes us to the suffering mind. This triggers the unhappiness around us. Instead, change the perspective to 'Why me? Because, only I can do this'.
You are not alone; you have your IG© to support and stay with you along this challenging time. Don't dig into the sand to hide out. Raise your head to look around and call for help or face them. Remember when riding a bike was hard? But it eventually got better with training and practice.
In mindfulness, we are taught about neuroscience. It is just like snowboarding; when the path is fresh with snow, the 1st person struggles to create a path for the ride. But when the 15th person comes along, it is much easier for him/her as the previous 14 people tried making the same path for you to now flow smoothly over.
Don't be caught in someone else's drama.
Trying to please everyone is always a thankless task and is not usually possible. At times, even trying to please one person, whether it is a family member or a work colleague, can be very challenging. There is only so much you can do. So, sometimes the best thing to do is to go with the flow. Every day we come across several challenges in our lives but prioritise and focus on the most important. The rest may not even need attention.

'Participate in your own dreams, don't just say what you want or complain about what you don't have.'

— Steve Maraboli
We all go through challenges from time to time but taking the time out and thinking through ourselves will help us be grounded and think of solutions rather than the problem.

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
The tools that helped me to stay focused on my path are found below:

Having a routine: It was self-healing and then it turned to meditation. I do meditation in bed if I am too lazy. But I love that space. It usually lasts only 10 minutes.
Ground yourself: Stomp your feet on the ground and make it intentional that you are anchoring yourself and grounding.
Breathe fresh: On a summer's day, before our usual rush routine begins, we go into our balcony and take a few fresh breaths of air. I love the sea that is visible from there and it is both a calming and grounding process for me. If you don't have expansive nature around where you live, not to fret. Get a poster. It is equally helpful.
Protect your choices: This is equally important as grounding as this helps in your energies to be recharged and protects you like a shield. Just the intention and thought of it is good to start with.
Be empathetic: This brings in kindness in you and to the people around.
Show gratitude: At the end of the day, go through your gratitude list and wind down with a warm drink of herbal tea or just warm water. There is absolutely no other way to thank God and to the others around you for the wonderful day you had.

Remember, all is love, and love is all there is at the end of the day.

The Choice is Yours
What the world throws at you is not your choice. What you make of it is your choice completely. Take Lord Rama's story from the Ramayana; the challenges he was made to face in his adult life were many. In one moment he was the king's son and next-in-line to get the throne, in the next moment he was banished for 14 years to live in a forest just out of respect for the word of his step mother. But he went through his struggles with a smile.
Reading his story, we all can gather that he looked at the bigger picture in his life rather than the kingdom or fame or name or luxury. He is a role model to many people around the world. The moral is to be closer to your principles and face challenges with a smile. Today, I choose to look at life and others with open-mindedness, curiosity, and appreciation.
What matters to you is your own ask. The quality of life is what matters. Bring them on and live by them.
Power of Intentions
The power of intentions is so strong that you can do anything that you put your heart into. When you open yourselves up and don't attach yourself to the outcome, you get more than you expected. When you have powerful intentions of good things, you are also in a position to give.
The journey of life is exciting when you challenge your own weaknesses. For those with a big heart, even impossible tasks become possible.
It is not the years of experience that matter, it is the mountain of challenges you go through that makes you who you are today. Only when we face our fears do we face our naked truth.







4
FEAR

'There is only one thing that makes a dream impossible to achieve: the fear of failure.'

— Paulo Coelho
As per A Course in Miracles, there are only two things we all have in common—love and fear. I have chosen fear unknowingly and knowingly for many years. But they all eventually came to the surface as health issues, and then I had to let them go slowly as there was a little home within me to hold space for them. Now, my home inside me is full of joy, love, happiness, and curiosity for life and has little space for fear.
Why Not?
It is unpleasant to wake up and panic about traffic, or kids at school, their safety, or job layoffs, etc. When I think of these, my hands fist up, my tummy feels sick, the body tenses up, and I get palpitations. I would rather choose myself to be filled with love and just love wherever possible. I still have my fears, but I don't feed much energy to these thoughts that come in from time to time as these situations may or may not happen. There is no point in thinking about them so much and waste what is in front of me right now.
Look at the cattle in the forest. If they were constantly in fear of the lion that might eat them, would they be grazing and enjoying the grass that is right in front of them? No.
Fear as Fuel
Use fear as a fuel to motivate you rather bring you down. Don't treat like an enemy. Treat it like your best friend who can help you climb up the ladder. Bring in the power within to overcome this fear that is holding you down. Power only flows to those that serve. Ask the power to flow through you and be able to serve and be in connection to the source.

'Fear is the necessary precursor to change. We must become comfortable with our fear. Everything we want and need can be found in the unknown territory of fear and uncertainty.'

— Mastin Kipp
Your fears are always lower to your smile's vibrations. A fearless soul learns to adjust. Fear is always about tomorrow or the next moment, never about now. So, it is time we redefine our fear and how it controls us in the moment.
The Dark Side of Fear
Fear is what holds us in darkness but it is time we move towards the light. We all have to, at one point of life, so why not now? Fear of inadequacy, of not being good enough, of unsettlements, of relationships, of responsibilities, and many more, these are all multiplying in the New Age lifestyles we are all leading. Think back and take a step closer to your IG© and ask if this is required. Ask yourself: At this moment of time, what can I achieve if I don't have this fear? Just replace your fears with love and power and see the results. We always let fear rule us and this leads to dissatisfaction in our life and we abuse our own selves on things we couldn't accomplish.
Fear never has any power unless we feed with power
Fear of living in darkness is equal to hell on earth and many life instances are driving each human towards that state. Also when you raise your vibration you do feel the fear is not tangling you anymore but you have the strength to cut through them and make way to light with in you. You need to remember to fill the gap of the less fear to more happiness and love. You can do my making yourself feel good.

'Everything you want is on the other side of fear.'

— Jack Canfield
Fear of Success
Have you heard about it before? I have and wondered why would anyone be afraid of success. Success is supposed to be great and everyone's dream, right? But old limiting beliefs that are not even yours in some situations arise and create it. And before you can even plan for your success, your mind goes planning for failure.
So, think of the situations where you are imagining and seeing yourself doing good. And look and take a step closer to it. Don't be afraid. Look back on your journey; who did all the work and effort to reach at this point of your life and why are you now fearing it? Ask yourself, what are the reasons? Is it money, family, friends, challenges associated, relationship challenges? Let the thoughts of 'why' flow in. No matter what it is, don't judge but let them come by.
When the answers are flowing in, are they serving any purpose in your life? When you get the answers, ask your IG© which ones are facts and which ones are made-up beliefs. You will get the answers in accordance with what you have to be doing with the soul alignment and from the place of love.
Deep breathe and create a space within.

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
A few of the below settings will help you feel good. Adapt to what is convenient to you and the rest you can always come back and try out:

Set an intention for the day.
Meditate even for 5 minutes.
Be mindful of your day and keep reminders.
Mantra affirmation is the best to be worked up.
10-second deep inhales and exhales for every couple of hours.
Keep a gratitude journal.
Write the things you love about yourself.
Set an intention on the food you consume.
Move your body—dance/do yoga/exercise.
Tune into to talk to yourself.
Close your eyes and see yourself living your best life.
Change the space to feel good.
Let go of the things you don't require.
Practice forgiveness, or the idea of it to start with.
Write your fears down. This is the first you would be taking to release the fears. Fears are commonly associated with future events based as on past actions.
Don't ever hide your weaknesses. Instead, share them out and make them your strengths.

A fearless soul learns to adjust, as change is the only constant in our lives. The secret to happiness is to be free of fear. Fear is like a toxin that runs through much of our thinking. It feeds on our insecurities, feeling of loss, loneliness, inadequacy, and attachments.
Be fear free and invite happiness.








5
SPREADING YOUR WINGS

'One day, you will wake up and there won't be any more time to do the things you've always wanted. Do it now.'

— Paulo Coelho
You are growing and transforming from a caterpillar to a beautiful butterfly. It's very inconvenient, and it hurts when you are in the caterpillar stage as you see no future its dark there. Nothing is of comfort, but when you open up; you open up in your true colours. Don't be shy and hide away in your closet. You are on this path for a greater and bigger reason, and be ready for when it all comes together.
What is Holding You Back?
A bird may be safe in its nest but that is not what its wings are made for. What is holding you back? Is it your circumstances, situations that were created by others, or emotions? Before even asking this question, you need to ask yourself what do you want to achieve, what makes you feel the sense of a freedom?

'What lies behind us and what lies ahead of us are tiny matters compared to what lies within us.'

— Ralph Waldo Emerson
You Are Never Alone
Sometimes, healing could be the reassurance we need that there is someone for us who is watching, supporting, showering us with unconditional love, and helping us become better versions of ourselves. To trust this, you need to release all that is weighing you down. Your internal support system is your IG©; the outer may be whatever you want it to be—your family, friends, neighbours, or your mentors.
You've got the team with you.
Never believe anyone who says you cannot change. They don't know what you can achieve. How could they possibly know your strengths? Your vision is one of the main secrets of personal transformation. We are all artists; our mind is the arena of creation and our vision is what we are constantly creating.
Always start with vision not action. See it and you will be it. Be it and you will do it. This is how we create our own life. Experience is stronger than beliefs. Change is good but hard. And we all need to start somewhere. You are never too old for it. It is all in the mind.

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
Trust yourself and release what is holding you down. Just think all is well in your life right now. Get yourself new wings to fly. If you believe you can and have the strong desire to do so, then despite setbacks, it is your willpower that makes you try, try, try again. Both 'will' and 'power' are released when you go from 'will do' to 'doing things willingly'.
Timing is everything. Always be gentle with yourself. Like a caterpillar, if you try to open up before its time, the wings won't be fully developed. But when it is the right timing, you will open up your beautiful wings.

Self-Care Vital
Being selfish helps in filling yourselves first, so that you can serve others in greater ways. Being in power to serve and being yourself fully is the priority towards your own inner knowing and progress. Only when you accept yourself, self-help comes in.

'Arise, awake, and stop not till the goal is reached.'

— Swami Vivekananda







6
EXPECTATIONS

'I'm not in this world to live up to your expectations and you're not in this world to live up to mine.'

— Bruce Lee
Expectations can come from others or from your own self. If you don't reach your own expectations, you can feel like a failure. Learning from our failures, however, can be a beautiful experience. Learn to accept yourself. Accept your strengths. Just like a phoenix must burn only to emerge again, we might need to fail to achieve success in life.
Failures
What is failure? Is it you who is defining the failure or the situation which is defining the failure for you? Have you failed on your targets? If so, think. Are you expecting too much from yourself? Is it the pressure of others' success? Why are you tagging as a failure?
For me, failure is a way to success and a better result. I missed something in the past only to get the better future. Back then, I may not have realised this, but I do now. Take some time with these questions and be honest with yourself as you answer them. There is no rush and while some of the answers may be immediate, others might take an hour, day, or even a week to pop up. But you will know when they appear.
I was tagged as failure because I couldn't become a doctor. I didn't score well enough to be successful in medicine. But I had a long desire to serve people. Now, being in holistic work and working with clients on their emotions and physical challenges, I no longer classify myself a failure for not becoming a doctor. I see myself on the steeping ladder to my soul's goals, and on my way to achieving what I am meant to be and will be.
But I couldn't have been so positive about it 20 years ago. I was sad and unhappy. It took me a long time to accept what my purpose was. Everyone around me defined me as a failure at the time only because I let it happen. I gave them the permission. I gave my power away so everyone else could step into my bubble and define who I was.
Being constructive and taking time to see the positive side is what I should have done at the time.
Time To Celebrate
Celebrate your failures so you can enjoy your success even more. Take it as an opportunity to learn from the procrastination of the past and adjust how you do things moving forward. What our current state of mind wants may not happen but what your higher state defined might. Never give up reaching for the stars. You deserve the best. Yes, you do.
I fell apart many times.
So.
What does that say about me
besides
I live through
wars.
—Nayyirah Waheed

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
Following are a few tools that helped me in learning the process:

As you shower, imagine all your stress/ worries/tensions being washed away like dirt; imagine all the situations that are not in alignment being washed away from the mind and from your auric field, as well. Let it all flow down the pipes. Wash away all the negative energies and unwanted energies; fill in the space with the white light of purification. It is a beautiful and easy-to-do technique every day.
Writing them down helped me to release rather clog up myself in suffocation.
Having Plan B helps too. This helps in having high hopes reduced and anxiety and stress levels as well. The analytical brain calms down when you have something else lined up. You are giving the universe permission to offer you the best.
Give yourself time to chill with music, dance, Zumba classes, natures walk, or simply winding down with a good book and your favourite drink.


Look at your heroes or role models. Have they not failed in their lives? Were they the best in everything they did? No. They are like us and only excelled in their path that was meant for them. So, don't be hard on yourself and don't have high expectations. Have a manageable bar that you achieve with pride. That is all that matters at the end of the day.

'You have a choice each and every single day. I choose to feel blessed. I choose to feel grateful. I choose to be excited. I choose to be thankful. I choose to be happy.'

— Amber Housley
Unrealistic Expectations
We do keep unrealistic expectations from time to time to gain approval of someone in our lives. I could be for love or parents or society. We start believing this is the only way we can keep them happy. Just like I thought, if only I could have become a doctor, my parents would have been happy. And as a result, I pushed myself far more than I could have dealt with.
Love yourself for who you are. Take the mask off and show the real you to the world. You are beautiful inside out.
Expectations are never permanent. You are though.







7
TURN YOUR LIGHTS

'Be uniquely you. Stand out. Shine. Be colourful. The world needs your prismatic soul!'

— Amy Leigh Mercree
Every step we take on this journey brings us closer to who we really are; we don't have to be perfect with anything. As long as we take another step further towards the light is what brings in happiness into our soul. Even a single, tiny step is enough to move forward in our path. There is a light in each of us which we are not aware of. The light in us can shine into our soul while connecting with the truth. If you are a fan of Star Wars you might have heard: 'The light—it has always been there. It'll guide you.'
Step up, step out
Come out and shine
Give a chance
You can do it
Only you can
Step up, step out
Come out and Shine
When you shine your light, your belief and faith will be tested. This will make you stronger to connect with the forces inside you and, in turn, will make you stronger on your path. Life is to take a chance and to wish for the best.

Sit quietly.
Write what you always wanted to become as child.
List them with no judgements.
Check how far away you are with them.

Making art (or creativity, in general) always lights up a soul. It could be listening to music or cooking for you. When you find what your favourite past-time is, it becomes easier to dwell for the answers there.
Just like a smile is contagious, your light is too. Spread it around into the darkness around you. For me, darkness is anything to do with negative talk, emotions, depression, and self-criticism. For those with a bigger heart, even impossible tasks become possible.
When Experience Healing happened in my life, I stopped the whole process of search. And finally found my home in myself.
Deep in me I was there
I was buried under my thoughts.
The purpose was always clear
The mission always stood out of me
God was within me
I AM, I AM, I AM.
Don't Believe Everything You Think
Give your soul the permission to reconnect with your inner child every so often, just like we had our summer holidays as children—to recharge and get out of routine. Sleep in late, wake up late, no lunch boxes, no routines. Variety is the spice of life. You have to do this to regain your energy and vision back. Think about it. What are you doing currently to recharge your soul to light up?

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
Aum. Asato ma sad-gamaya; tamaso ma jyotirgamaya; mrtyor-ma amrutam gamaya.
Aum. Shanti, shanti shanti.
— Brihadaranyaka Upanishad 1.3.28
It means: Lead me from the unreal to real; lead me from darkness to light; lead me from death to immortality. Aum ... peace, peace, peace. Just chant this prayer for the light in you to lead to the brightness within you.

What Are You Teaching Today?
Yogi Bhajan once said: 'If you want to learn something, read about it. If you want to understand something, write about it. If you want to master something, teach it.'
You are your own first teacher and student. You need not be perfect but somewhere you need to start the journey that is on the right direction. The best out of us comes only when we start teaching ourselves. Be consistent and sign up for non-negotiable acts like meditation, grounding, activating your chakras, walking, or self-healing. It can be anything that raises your vibrations. Make a vow to act on it and be present for this daily practice.
As A Course in Miracles states: Teaching is to demonstrate; only then do we become the teaching. Be like a mother who teaches her child with love and patience. Teach your mind to have positive thoughts and to let go of worries. Then, when your mind needs peace, it will obey you.

'People will support you and help you with teachings and practices, as they have supported and helped me, but you yourself experience your unlimited potential.'

— Pema Chodron
How Did I Work With It?
Right after I finished by reiki master teacher level, a friend of mine popped in to learn reiki from me. I said, 'Why me?' Well, at that time, my confidence was being worked upon. She was resonating with my energies and wanted to learn even if I took time to teach her. I asked my IG© (with panic) what I should do. I was only practicing reiki for myself, my family, and a few friends and had no idea of teaching. My IG© responded to act on it. It said it is a way to share your light. And I agreed. It was one of the best decisions of my life.
I suggest you not to hold on to your insecurities but grab the opportunities and work backwards.
I am the light of the world.
You are the light of the world.
We came here to shine and rise.







Sutra 5
FORGIVENESS

'The weak can never forgive. Forgiveness is the attribute of the strong.'

— Mahatma Gandhi








1
LETTING GO

'However dear something may be to you, including your own body and life, you must know how to let it go gracefully when the time comes.'

— Sadhguru
To make good use of what you have, and to let go of what you do not use, is to live in a contented way. Gentleness, love, humility, and forgiveness are the greatest powers in the world. Forgiveness is releasing yourself from your own prison. It is freeing yourself up to new thoughts, experiences, and paths. Give birth to new possibilities through your ability to reach into the future and let go of the past.
'Letting go' is the most common phrase being used in modern approaches to life. After the Frozen movie's song lyrics from Disney, it has become even more prevalent than before. It is a way of both telling people and reminding ourselves how important it is to let go of things that don't support us.
Previously, I had issues of letting go, like many of us. I used to let go of things in a different way to what I do now. I would scream, be angry, and speak out loud, but still not let go of my emotions. However, all that led to bigger problems without my own realisation. If you've made a mistake, be gentle on yourself and encourage yourself (and others) to learn from it, let go, and move on. What I noticed is that the past is full of anger, guilt, grievances, sadness, bitterness, unforgiveness, and regrets. The future is full of anxiety, stress, restlessness, worry, and fears. If you replace each one with peace and love, there will be no space left for any of such heavy negative emotions.

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
Write your fears down as this is the first step that you would be taking to release the fears. Fears are more commonly associated with future events while being based on past actions.

Don't ever hide your weaknesses; instead share them out and make them your strengths.
Let go of everything that is holding you back, in order to treat yourself with more kindness and love.
Make sure you forgive and send out love before bedtime every day.
Forgive and move on. Understand your reactions from your side, put them right, and set yourself free.


You need to love yourself more to become your own best friend. If you can't enjoy your own company, who else will or would want to? A positive outlook will attract positive people and new possibilities. Self-love is the way of bringing love in our lives.
Forgiveness is the ultimate detox for your mind and body. It not only relieves the burden of anger, grudges, words, space, etc., but also the physical impacts. It is okay to forgive a person and not forget what happened. We, as humans, don't know why exactly anyone does anything. They may have hurt us but they don't know why they hurt us. We are not born bad; we grow into that through circumstances. Even if what they did seems unforgivable at the moment, you are the one who is suffering by storing old anger and resentment.
Forgiveness isn't the same as condoning their behaviour. It is a form of self-love and self-care. Unforgiveness and resentment are only going to damage you and hurt you internally. It is your choice to stop this hurt. It is not benefitting anyone or any situation.
Create a day by changing your thought. Only when the thoughts are changed, the actions are changed. When actions are changed results change as well.
Below are a few tips I would like to share here from my experiences:

Wake up 10 minutes early.
Be grateful for everything.
Gentle stretches help to relieve stagnant energies in the body.
 Think of an affirmation for the day.
Set a theme for the day.
Breathe deeply.
Plan ahead and charge yourself.
Replace every negative thought with a positive thought. This requires practice. Practice this for the next 21 days even if only for a few minutes daily. Use calendar reminders or Post-its to bring in this new habit and watch the results yourself.

Let It Go
Let go of the judgements. When you accept yourself with boundaries you judge yourself less. With letting go of the past comes acceptance of the present. Try saying 'yes' to what happened and see what can be done better rather than dwelling in that past moment.
Don't be stuck in the questions:

Why me?
Why now?
Why always me?

You don't have to know them in order to be in the now and to progress further. In some cases, you may never know the answers until you move further down the path.
Let go of any thoughts associated with what others think of you or your decisions. You can't give all the time you have for others' thoughts. You need to fill yourself up as well.
Forgiveness

'Forgiveness is like an eye of a needle.'

— Caroline Myss
Just as the bird has to find the courage to let go of the branch in order to fly, so we also must let go of our branches if we are to know the highest potential of our life.
Why Is It Hard To Forgive Others?
This usually happens because we believe that they are 90 per cent to blame for the problem; that we are not as bad as they are. So, we start to carry the load of other people's actions.
If my ego is too hurt, I will have a sense of justice and would think: 'I know I am right; that is not fair.' But if I start to forgive from the heart, sincerely, I remain humble and this forgiveness will bring me closer to others. Then I do not carry any regrets or anger; I just let go and remain light. No more storage in my heart for unwanted emotions.
Imagine you had to leave your belongings in a storage space and paid rent monthly. And, one day, you decided to visit it and see what is relevant and what can be used now. When you turn up to your storage block, you realise all the things left in there have nothing to do with who you are now. The things are all broken, old, and some have fallen apart and have no sentimental value anymore. You realise, all these years, you thought you had precious things in there and even paid for them to be safe. But it is all just junk. What a disappointment.
It is never too late to break the contract and trash all of it. To make good use of what you have and to let go of what you do not use is to live in a contented way. Gentleness, love, humility, and forgiveness are the greatest powers in the world. Forgiveness is releasing yourself from the prison that is dark and where no life exists. Freeing yourself up is like freeing a bird that can fly high.
Step one: Ask yourself for forgiveness and ask the situation, 'What can I learn from you now? What can we learn together?' Only when you ask for help is help ever given.

'True forgiveness is when you can say, "Thank you for that experience."'

— Oprah Winfrey
Step two: Make space in your mind and heart. Decluttering the space is the best way to begin. The more clutter we have in our minds, the busier it becomes. Let go ... be gentle and release it into the nature where it all belongs.

'I used to be afraid of the pain letting go of the past would cause; until I realized how much pain holding on has caused.'

— Steve Maraboli
Try the below meditation to relax yourselves and accept yourself in a loving way:

Find a comfortable place to sit or relax and take a deep breath into your stomach and breathe it out through your nose and out from your mouth. Feel the coolness of the air and let it exhale from your mouth, almost like a whistle.

3 long deep breaths
Inhale ... and exhale.
Inhale ... and exhale.
Inhale ... and exhale.
Relax your shoulders and feet.


Start to move your feet up and down stepping up very gently. As if stepping on grapes squashing under your feet, release any unwanted emotions. Repeat: 'I love myself and accept myself. I forgive myself because I am worth it.' Repeat this mantra for as many times as you feel comfortable. Open your eyes and do a nice body stretch when ready.
Baggage Clearance
As I was working on self-healing I realised that it was getting more and more difficult to forgive something or someone, or even myself, as more and more stuff was clearing up. It was a rollercoaster. I kept asking, 'Why should I forgive that person when he/she has been mean to me or has given me such a hard time?'
It took time and awareness to know that the situation or person was there to teach me a valuable lesson in my life. There is no time machine that I could go back and correct it or change it. It was meant to happen and it did. There is no going back.
You Are Forgiven
Take this moment to say you forgive yourself and start a new beginning, because you deserve it. No one is born to be hurt. If you are looking for a sign, here it is:
You are forgiven. Permission granted.

'Forgiveness is not always easy. At times, it feels more painful than the wound we suffered, to forgive the one that inflicted it. And yet, there is no peace without forgiveness.'

— Marianne Williamson
The past is inerasable. The future is modifiable.
If someone hasn't forgiven you, consider those people still in need to learn a lot. Don't wait for someone to forgive you.







2
PRAYERS

'Prayer is not asking. It is a longing of the soul. It is daily admission of one's weakness. It is better in prayer to have a heart without words than words without a heart.'

— Mahatma Gandhi
Love is like healing and giving nourishment to a plant. All a healer can do is nourish
but the plant has to be ready to grow. No one can do anything else other than the plant itself. The plant is you and you need to be ready to take charge and begin the journey.
Every day, waking up and finding your feet above the ground is a blessing. Be grateful for everything you have and even for those things that you don't have right now. Be thankful for what you have; you'll end up having more. If you concentrate on what you don't have, you will never, ever have enough of what you want. So, strive not for objects of wealth but instead for personal awareness.
Ask for clarity, as sometimes what we hear or see may not make sense to our human knowing. Go back and ask, either in dream or meditation, for greater knowledge. You will get further details upon allowing yourself to ask. Your truth is not found in other people's opinions, but within yourself. You know this, both as a personal truth and through the teachings so far within this book.

'The function of prayer is not to influence God, but rather to change the nature of the one who prays.'

— Soren Kierkegaard
As a school kid in India, we all had to attend the assembly during which we had to recite prayers. I didn't realise the importance of this ritual but there were some blissful prayers we had.
The first prayer we had was:
Gurur brahmaa gurur vishnuh
gurur devo maheshvarah
gurur saakshaat parabrahma
tasmai shree gurave namah.
This means: Know the Guru (teacher) to be Brahma Himself. He is Vishnu. He is also Shiva. Know Him to be the Supreme Brahman, and offer thy adorations unto that peerless Guru.
Another one we had:
Om Lokah Samastah Sukhino Bhavantu
This means: May all beings everywhere be happy and free and may the thoughts, words, and actions of my own life contribute in some way to that happiness and to that freedom for all.
These prayers have given me the faith and strength to keep moving. There were times when I turned back and screamed at God for making my life so tough but when I pause I know I was not ready for the responsibility of the choices I had taken. Hence, the blame on God.
But when we are ready we take the responsibility and take charge of the situation, we work it through no matter how tough it seems. Surrender and let the divine intervene and work it out for you.
When we silence the chattering of our mind, we can truly hear what is in our heart and find the stillness to clear the clutter and get to the purity that lies within the soul. This silence contains the power to create harmony in all relationships and the sweetness to sustain the peace. Silence is the prayer to all the answers we are looking for. Seek within you.
Intentions Are Everything
Don't complicate yourself in what prayers should we say. Just keep it simple and follow what comes to you at that moment of time. Show gratitude with any prayer you use. Intention is the best way to work with prayers and gratitude at any time. Prayers must be sincere and should come from the heart. Be consistent in the habit of using the power of prayers.

'Prayer is not asking. Prayer is putting oneself in the hands of God, at His disposition, and listening to His voice in the depth of our hearts.'

— Mother Teresa
Believe
When you pray, believe that it is going to be answered. Don't wait to actually hear or see the answers. Work on the subject and you will see the miracles. Growing up in India, most of us would head to the temple and pray for our exams to go well. But, we still needed to study hard for them. The point is to do what is required and have faith; God will take it from there.
Pray, pray to the light within you,
For the whole world which is in need.
To shine this light and heal the hearts.
Pray, pray to the God within you,
For the whole world which is in need.
To shine this light and show the path.
Pray, pray to the divine within you,
For the whole world which is in need.
To shine this light and lead in the path.
Every day, waking up and finding your feet above the ground is a blessing. Be grateful for everything you have and don't.
When the mind is muddled up, the intention of prayer might not be the easiest of choices. This is true specially in long-term issues. So, take a moment and breathe in. Ask for clarity. Your truth is NOT found in other people's opinions. Your IG© knows that truth on your behalf.

'Be thankful for what you have; you'll end up having more. If you concentrate on what you don't have, you will never, ever have enough.'

— Oprah Winfrey

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
When praying, personalisation is important as that is the purity that carries from your soul. There is an intention that matters more the words that are being used.
Psalm 119:73-74: You made me; you created me. Now give me the sense to follow your commands. May all who fear You find in me a cause for joy, for I have put my hope in Your word.








3
BALANCE

'Somehow, we'll find it. The balance between whom we wish to be and whom we need to be. But for now, we simply have to be satisfied with who we are.'

— Brandon Sanderson
It Is Important
In every thought, act, and action, we need to be in balance. Being at the other end of the scale of things can make us fall off the wagon. Balance in thoughts brings into being in the moment. There is no past and no future, all we have is the present moment. When I first heard these words I felt ah, it surely works for a monk; not for a normal human being. But then, I slowly tried to understand what it really means and I went back to my thoughts.
Whenever a thought from the past came in, I asked myself: What is the point to think about it now? It is done and can't be changed. The only way to release that thought is not to redo it. That was the lesson I was taking back, to not to repeat and repent. It was easier then to cut the cord and rebalance.
Worries are of the past, not of now. They cannot be useful on our journey other than to avoid repeating the errors in past judgement. Anxiety is the other doubt that kicks in when we think of the future. It is what holds us back. But we forget it is the present that holds our future, and not the future to now. So, avoid being anxious. The future may very well be different to what we expect. I never expected I would come to Ireland, and yet, here I have been living for the past 15 years.
When I was growing up, I was anxious about what my future would be like. Whom will I marry? Will I have kids? Will I work? Will I be settled well? However, I never imagined I would live this way. When the expectations are released, the output is much deeper, happier, and more prosperous. We allow our soul to progress further, and allow ourselves to be present in the moment.

The choice is mine to be happy.
The choice is mine to feel blessed.
The choice is mine to have fun.
The choice is mine to be grateful.
The choice is mine always.
Choose it wisely!

Balance In Forms
Balance comes in many forms—from work-life balance to the balance between ourselves in our relationships.

'Your hand opens and closes, opens and closes. If it were always a fist or always stretched open, you would be paralysed. Your deepest presence is in every small contracting and expanding, the two as beautifully balanced and coordinated as birds' wings.'

— Rumi
No matter how the sunset is, the next day's sunrise is not defined. They each do their duties to balance the nature. Same way, we need to balance our thoughts and life and with what we have right now with us; not by what our past was.
Sometimes, it is really important what we want rather than what others want from us. If we don't love ourselves who will, and how will others find it easier to love us? Think about it and take your time. Even 5 minutes a day is what you can start your day with by valuing yourself.
Write down a couple of things that you could do every day to value yourself.
I would choose to do reiki every day for five minutes at least. This proves to be my treat time to connect to my inner peace and helps bring balance and peace in my life. For some it could be going for a walk, reading their favourite book, drinking their evening tea in solitude, etc. It may be really simple things but it is amazing what it can do for us. All we need to do is value ourselves in that time and bring back the energies.
Think, act, and love yourself.
65,000 thoughts a day is what an average human has in just 24 hours. That is how busy we are keeping our brains. People talk all the time about going on a diet, doing a detox or a cleanse, exercising, etc. But it is all stops at the physical level. We never focus on healing our brain and detoxing our thoughts.
Today is a new day, a new journey, a new turn, a new path for the dreams to come true.
Our body may be visible in a mirror. But our character is visible only in actions. Be in sync with both by balancing the acts. What we change in emotions will make an effect in the body and vice versa. So, it is a two-way sync act that we need to do.

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
Life is a continual process of balancing and grounding ourselves to who we are. Just like in yoga, in the 'tree pose', we try to balance the physical body and emotions, if either are not in the right place, we lose the pose. It is a constant effort and continual process to balance the mind, body, and spirit.








4
ALIGNMENT TO SOURCE

'When you find that your life is out of alignment with your grandest idea of yourself, seek to change it.'

— Neale Donald Walsch
Your soul is like a memory stick to your computer. When you are connected with it, you can both download information and save it. When you are not connected, it is not being useful.
Be Truthful
Be truthful to who you are and be seen. You are born to be healed. There are still unfinished lessons and you came here to gain the memories and experiences of these messages. In one lifetime, a person cannot be a scientist, mathematician, artist, homemaker, etc. Hence, we try and experience the other fields and come back to what we desired the most. Be true to yourself and work on your path of what is required for this lifetime.
As Mastin Kipp said, 'We cannot look to our mentors as our source of power. Instead, we must look where they are looking and find our answers.'
From the book The Amazing Power of Deliberate Intent, Esther (translated for Abraham) and Jerry Hicks: 'Nothing is more important than the vibrational alignment, or maintenance of the continuum, between you and You, for every moment is impacted by your Connection or lack of Connection to your Inner Being—to the Total You that you have become, to the You that you were before you were born into this physical body.
Once you understand who-you-really-are and you consciously work to achieve and maintain your vibrational alignment with who-you-really-are, everything else will fall into wonderful alignment. However, if you do not tend to that Connection, nothing that you can do will fill the void or take the place of that alignment.'
What Is It?
Alignment to source is something that we have to do ourselves. For me, personally, alignment to source is completely trusting the source, creator, God, universe, or any other name you may want to give it and working along with it. Working along means I give a 100 per cent of myself, I turn up every single day under nonnegotiable terms for myself. As it is for me, and I enjoy doing it, I am happy as I see reflections and changes coming into my life. This is how abundance makes way to my life. And why should I not do the work when it is in a harmonious state? Once you are in alignment, it is easier to follow your IG© as it follows your body and soul needs are nourished. Take what you need now and you must learn and unlearn what you have picked up in order to be in alignment with the source.
Fulfilment and nourishment of your inner self of your soul are far better for your self-growth. Think before you give up your wishes and dreams that are aligned with your soul purpose as you will come back to them at a later stage, if you are not following them yet. You are happy when you resolve the conflict in the path you are on and in the path that your soul should be. That is alignment. When you are happy and doing as per your blueprint of life, you are in a work-in-progress but joyful state.
What we are inside reflects what we are outside. Outside happiness comes from the inside. It is time to rise up and serve the inner purpose of life to maintain balance in and out. Once we know that we are servicing the right purpose and being in progress with our lives, it starts reflecting the outer conditions. Things do change from time to time but we become adaptable as we are living with content.

'There has never been and never will be another you. You have a purpose, a very special gift that only you can bring to the world.'

— Marie Forleo

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
Finally, ask yourself, what is holding you back from creating a life you desire?
Sit in silence, light a candle, and hold a crystal. Before you meditate, just set an intention—what is it that will bring you closer to your soul purpose? Are you in alignment? What is that obstructing you? What can you do now to change things for the better?
Silence ... pause ... breathe ...
Let the answers flow in. They may happen right now at this moment. Journal them down. Or you will see signs around. So let them come to you in the right way. Don't worry, you won't miss these messages. Your IG© is stronger than you may think.
I am the source of my truth and my love.

What If?
What if things go wrong? What if things don't work out? What if I am wrong in my decision? What if I can't reach on time? Like these, hundreds of statement are made in a day and in our lives.
But have we ever thought about what if we are right? What if it works out? What if it is successful? If we start, we are hoping things to work out and helps to prepare for success and trusting our IG©.
Take time to read this paragraph and see what areas in your life come up and focus on them. What if I have my home? What if when I have kids? Place accordingly to your successful future. Start differently from today and let it flow and make a new positive path in your life. The secret behind successful people is that they think they can do it and utilise the power of mind. When someone can achieve something by this simple rule, why can't we? Successful people were common people like us at some point, right?







5
GROUNDING

'Get yourself grounded and you can navigate even the stormiest roads in peace.'

— Steve Goodier
Grounding is one of the main areas that the spiritual books and teachers are covering now. We were always reminded not to fly high in case we forget our roots and our base. Yes, in terms of grounding, this is right. Once you are connected to the base, you can have a safe landing. It is such a simple tool and is easy to work with and to be implemented in our daily lives. It helps us grow healthier and stronger inside out.
Imagine a tree that is not well supported and grounded. When rain and strong winds come, what happens to it? Will it fall over? Get knocked down? Or go through wear and tear on the branches? The chances are for all three to happen.
Flying always starts from the ground. Notice the birds even they gently fly high. The more grounded you are, the higher you fly, just like them. Your flight is safer and smoother. Birds taught us that we can fly and gave us hope and inspiration.
What And Why?
Grounding is a foundation to all the work that we do. Without grounding, you feel restless, insecure, tired, and not belonging to anyone or anything. Grounding is that wonderful tool that helps you anchor your boat to the shore. Grounding ensures you that your head is well balanced and in the right space. This is especially true when you are high on happiness or low on emotions. Grounding helps bring these extreme emotions to normal.
Grounding is the foundation of your ability to grow and develop in a healthy manner in mind, body, and spirit. By various techniques, we can achieve the balance of being grounded and being spiritually connected.
To do grounding, it is not complicated. The following are a few steps:

Walk barefoot. Bring your attention to earth. Take a large breath in and as you breathe, visualise a golden energy travelling up from earth into your feet and through your body up to your heart. Take those shoes off in the summer! Enjoy the warm weather and the feeling of sand or grass under your feet. It can be done in your own garden as well. Try walking with socks off in your home. Place your feet on the wooden floor or grass. Feel this energy infusing you through your soles of the feet to your body.

 Hug a tree. By reaching out and hugging a tree for just a few moments, we can ground ourselves physically and spiritually. If you feel embarrassed, which we all do, initially, you can sit underneath it or touch the trunk of the tree. Hugging a tree is amazing and uplifts your mood and deeply connects you deep with Mother Earth.
Imagine yourself to be a mountain. If you can't see a mountain nearby, go to a mountain and visualise to be one like it.
There are various guided meditations to ground yourself. You can opt do to one of these near your home.
You can so physical exercises like stomping your feet on the ground or grass.
Yoga is a great way to be grounded.
Working on your root chakra or the base chakra helps in grounding. This is especially important when making an important decision in life, be it career, relationships, change in home, etc.
Gardening can be an indoor or outdoor activity. Just by placing your hands in the planting soil for a few minutes can easily reconnect you. Or if you are on a beach, you can do it with sand as well.


#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
You can do the meditation given below as per your convenience, or take the parts you are most comfortable with:
Stand with your hands by your side. Feet flat on the ground. State your intention: (example: I allow myself to let the grounding energy from below the Mother Earth and from above to the Creator of All that is to surround, ground, and protect me now and for the rest of the day. Thank you, it is done. It is is done. It is done.)
Now, gently bring your attention to earth. Take a large breath in and, as you breathe, visualise a golden energy travelling up from earth, into your feet and through your body up to your heart.
As you exhale, visualise the light from earth all the way up to your heart, expanding outward all around the bottom portion of your body at about an arm's length distance or beyond.
Bring your attention to your crown chakra. Take a large breath in and visualise golden energy from the Creator entering into your crown moving down through your body and to your heart mingling with earth energies that you pulled in earlier.
As you exhale, visualise the light from above expanding outward all around the top portion of your body at about an arm's length distance or beyond. Breathe in one more time and visualise energies from below (earth) and above (Creator) coming in to your body at the same time and meeting at the heart.
As you exhale, visualise the energies expanding outward all around your entire body about arm's length distance or beyond. Observe yourself surrounded by a column of golden light from earth and from the Creator of All that is. You are completely surrounded, aligned, and balanced with the universal energies of mother/father or God/Goddess.
With your arms held by your side, visualise roots growing out of your fingers and into the earth. Bring your attention to your feet. Visualise roots growing out of your feet and into the earth. Bring your attention into the present moment. You are now grounded and surrounded by loving light. Give thanks to all.
Use this visualisation before and after your meditations or at the start or end of your day. It is also wonderful to use it for protection, when you feel fearful, out of balance, upset, or anxiety-stricken. Do this exercise every day to replenish your shield of light and to help you feel grounded. You can spend as little time as possible to as long as possible to invoke the intention anywhere you are and however you remember it.

Grounding With Kids
The stomping exercise is brilliant way to ground with kids. This helps them and is also so much fun. They need it with all the pressure they go through at school. No matter where you are in the world, you will find your tree to ground you. I love hugging trees, especially when I travel around. It gives me a connection to the place and instantly grounds me and makes me feel a part of the place. It is like wiring myself with them. Grounding is a very Important part of my daily ritual.
Below is a grounding exercise which is a simpler version:
Always start with an intention when you ground yourself. Intention is the main part. I ask my higher self, my IG© to ground me and protect me throughout the day and guide me with what is good for me. You can tune in to your words and construct your own intention.

Sit firmly on a chair or stand with hands side by side.
Breath into your belly and breath out. As you are breathing in, relax your shoulders and body and breathe out any unwanted tensions or energies.
Now visualise thick, deep roots growing down from the soles of your feet making a connection with Mother Earth and, deep into the core of the earth, anchoring to the crystal that resides.
 With the next breath, visualise a column of light from the Creator travelling down and with your in-breath coming into you crown centre, moving in to your body and into your chakras, travelling down to your feet and from your feet to the Mother Earth.
Visualise a beautiful golden light coming down from earth and flowing through your feet to your body and into your chakras and connecting to your source energy through your crown centre.
With every breath you take, visualise both the lights travelling up and down while clearing your energy centres and expanding them and your aura for a calm and peaceful day ahead.
Repeat it for 3 times. 3 is a sacred number and the number for creation.
Now gently bring the attention to the present moment. You are now grounded, protected, aligned, and surrounded by the higher being of lights.

Sometimes it is okay not to be grounded. The freedom to your soul is required. The universe is protecting you while you fly high.







6
PEACE

'Darkness cannot drive out darkness: only light can do that. Hate cannot drive out hate: only love can do that.'

— Martin Luther King Jr.
Peace comes from within; it is not something we can look for outside of ourselves. It is there with you at all times. You can turn your internal switch to peace. Meditation will help you find that switch within yourself. This is the only way to find inner peace.
What is it like to be at peace? Unless you have found your switch, you wouldn't know where to look, how it feels, etc. It is like finding and tasting honey, and then looking for the same taste in every other place you go. To be peaceful is to be free from expectations and to want nothing from others. Getting on with people is tough, especially when they don't fulfil your expectations. Instead, if you accept people the way they are, without expecting them to be something they are not, you end up less disappointed and frustrated. Being at peace is being calm, away from hurricanes in your mind. Free yourself to raise your own vibrations.

'We can never obtain peace in the outer world until we make peace with ourselves.'

— Dalai Lama
Peace Comes From Within
Your thoughts guide you to your destiny. If you always think the same, you will always get to the same place. Think in a new way and you will be a new person. Give happiness to all and you will live in peace. Create peace in your mind and you will create a world of peace around you. Ask for peace as a replacement to anger. Peace is always there; you just need to find the location of it and go often to it.
I would usually go to a temple to find the peace and calmness within me. Now, as I live away from my country, I go to church or even at home I have created my own altar to find that peace within me. It is always within us but we need to find the right places to reach it.
Get Up And Fight
In the Bhagavad Gita, Krishna says to Arjuna, 'Get up and fight.' This means that we are all constantly living in a battlefield. We are constantly in a fighting state with our emotions, thoughts, heart, and mind and, sometimes, with the people around us. We are all trying to do our best to win the game. This is where peace comes from.
The battlefield may constantly be there but you can find the peace by reminding yourself to never give up. When I teach mindfulness or a meditation class, sometimes the unexpected outer noises interfere without our control, like someone knocking on the door, or someone coughing, or the rain splashing on windows. These outer noises should have no impact when we find that inner peace and that is how we need to train ourselves. Go within to find the treasure. Sometimes things are right in front of us but our conscious eyes wander elsewhere.
What Is It Like To Be At Peace?
If you haven't ever tried honey, how can you understand what it is like no matter how much I explain the taste to you? It is the same with peace. Have you ever experienced it before? How would you know you are at peace? Will you recognise it if it happens to you again? Right, don't you see all these questions are pouring in your mind as we speak about peace?
Peace to me is that subtle state of mind. Nothing in the world means anything to you at that moment of time. It is like a state of bliss.
Only when we intend to change the current circumstances can we change the future. This change brings in the desired results. Think and act differently to what you have been doing. If you are getting unhappy results, think back and see what needs attention and what needs fixation.

'We can never obtain peace in the outer world until we make peace with ourselves.'

— Dalai Lama
Inner peace is the hardest and easiest to find once we hit the right buttons. If you know your button, use them regularly. If you are in search of them, you are on the path to them.

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
A few things to share on the path to peace:

Keep things simple. Don't complicate what peace is. When you go for a lovely walk, play with your children, watch a movie that lifts your spirits, is the peace that you should be looking at. It is not that we haven't ever experienced it before. But when we look for it actively, it can be quite stressful.
Stop pre-judging. This takes up a lot of space. Just like our phones have memory card, our minds have memory space. Don't waste this space by pre-judging by wasting time and thoughts on things that may not even happen.
I use the below mantra to bring in peace while meditating:

OM asato maa sadgamaya
tamaso maa jyotirgamaya
mrrityormaa.amrrita.n gamaya
OM shaantih shaantih shaantih
This means: O Lord, lead me from the unreal to the ultimate truth, from the darkness to light, and from the death of ignorance to the immortality of knowledge. OM! Peace, peace, peace.

Repeat these mantras: I am at peace with myself. I appreciate who I am. I deserve to relax. I deserve to be happy.

We always make peace with ourselves when
we are on the right path.








7
THINKING IS BELIEVING

'Believe it can be done. When you believe something can be done, really believe, your mind will find the ways to do it. Believing a solution paves the way to solution.'

— David J. Schwartz
Always Believe
Believe in yourself and believe in miracles. Always believe something wonderful is going to happen; erase all the old and negative patterns we have established. Life has become too busy, mechanical, and routine, and we don't have quiet moments for our thoughts or peace of mind. We come back years later and only then ask what have we achieved in life. Instead, if we give preference to be happy and nothing else, it becomes simple and calm again. This doesn't happen in a day, like a switch on and off, but takes patience and practice to achieve. This develops a change in our beliefs and thoughts. Think back and appreciate what you have got. Value what you have today and enjoy today! We get to live and have each day, and we should enjoy each and every day to the fullest.

'Faith consists in believing when it is beyond the power of reason to believe.'

— Voltaire
Assess Situations
I can now accurately assess any situation with clarity and confidence. There is an old saying—what we see or hear can be false too. Your gut will always be right. Take into account your instincts when making decisions. This concept is basic and can be applied in any area of life. It is all between the heart and the mind. Thinking positive thoughts is a powerful tool. We are all gifted with it; just need to tune in with the right words.
Never give up on yourself. Believe in you and your gut and inner strength. As Caroline Myss said, 'There can be many lies but only one truth for a subject.' No matter how much we talk about ourselves, deep down there is one knowing which is the truth. We need to follow that truth. Just because you cannot see it, doesn't mean you cannot believe in your inner potential.

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
There may be wobbly stones in your path. But it is not the entire path. Believe this and go along armed with trust. You will see the smooth surface. I use the prayer below at any time I wobble in my path:
I am capable.
I am worthy.
I am trustable.
I am lovable.
I believe in myself.
I let these thoughts go by as it is not always possible to not think of self-doubts. And when they come in I ask did I say that? Why am I thinking that? Is it true? And I say yes or no and leave it at that.
Say, for example, if I am told to file my bills, this is how the conversation with myself goes in my head:
I can't do it.
Why?
It's so boring!
Why?
As a child, I never enjoyed numbers.
Why?
Didn't get along with my maths teacher.
What has that got to do with my bills?
Nothing.
So why am I not doing it?
I am not motivated.
What will motivate me?
Nature.
So can I do the bills in the park? or the sea side?
Yes!
Try it out and you will find your own way. This helped me self-journey to my inner knowing. It helped me find who I really am and why I behave the way I do at times.
Who am I?
Why am I here?
What is my mission?
What is my purpose?
Why did God create me?
Encourage yourself, believe in yourself, and love yourself. Never doubt who you are. As the Bhagavad Gita says, 'What is, always is. What is not, never was.'

Enlightened Thinking
Waking up to our conscious mind and behaviours is when the enlightened thinking happens. When we come out of the maze of an illusion, life is crystal clear. It could be from false hopes or dreams, negative patters of thinking, or illusions. The truth is one—all that is right in front of us as it should be, despite appearances, or our perceptions of others to the contrary. This means, you can be easy on yourself, easy with others, and easy with the world around you. Step into your new being, end the struggle, and relax to take the easy flight.
Goodness Is Everywhere
When we look around us, there is goodness everywhere. Our objective is to find it. This is the part where thinking is believing. You may not see it instantly but you must know it is there. You might read an article or a friend might share an experience that reiterates its presence from time to time. This is a sign of opening up to the goodness around you.
Each person has both good and not-so-good qualities. Depending on the situation, the lessons they come out. A person who is really nice and good to one, may not be the same to another. Just like a coin has 2 sides; but in reality, it is the same coin. The same aspect can be applied to the solution. If there is a solution, there is a problem associated with it. Our task is to find some solutions. And, again, we may find it instantly or others may help us find it. By seeing yourself successful, with goodness, being happy, you are working towards raising your vibrations just not to your own self but to the people around you too.







Sutra 6
THE INNER CHILD HEALING

'She held herself until the sobs of the child inside subsided entirely. I love you, she told herself. It will all be okay.'

— H. Raven Rose








1
HEAR YOUR INNER CHILD

'Everything seemed possible, when I looked through the eyes of a child. And every once in a while; I remember, I still have the chance to be that wild.'

— Nikki Rowe
Just like we had our summer holidays as children, to recharge and get out of a routine, give your soul the permission to reconnect with the inner child every so often. You must do this to regain the energy and visions back.
Who Is The Inner Child?
As per the dictionary, inner child as a noun means:
'A person's supposed original or true self, especially when regarded as concealed in adulthood.'
It is amazing how the inner child is our true self, who gets corrupted by family, society, and economic behaviours of our surroundings. We are truly and genuinely happy when this inner child comes out.
Just close your eyes, relax your body by gently breathing into your tummy, and ask your IG© to show you the memories of you as a child when you were truly happy. Let the memories come in. For some it could be a word or a scene or smell. Let it flow through you without questioning.
You may notice your body becomes calmer and a smile spreads across your face. Remembering these fond memories uplifts the spirits. These memories are just for you. These are your treasures.

'The kid in you holds the key to living a full and rich life. Let him or her out to play!'

— Cheryl Richardson
The Solar Plexus Chakra
The more we heal on our solar plexus chakra (located in the abdomen), the easier it is to bring out our inner child. The inner child, who is timid, shy, and afraid to see the light, will gently make its way to us. It is like a rebirthing process once you are linked to your inner child.
Most of our psychological issues start at a young age. Cutting the cords and healing that child in us can help begin to journey to a new us. Circumstances can't be changed but acceptance and forgiveness work wonders to be able to move forward. I used EFT (Emotional Freedom Technique) to release my resentments and fears that were developed as a child. It is doable but consistence practice and patience are required.
Besides that, you can gently rub on your solar plexus and repeat: 'My inner child knows how wonderful it is. I hold this child close to my heart and tell it how much I love it, exactly as it is.' This is the affirmation I started repeating after hearing a Louise Hay CD and made my way to my inner child. Remember, you are loved and always welcomed into the world.
The best part of our lives is always hidden deep down. Just like you need to go under water to see the sea kingdom, the best is hidden underneath. We need not attempt to look outside. It is the journey inwards that can uncover your true gifts.

'We nurture our creativity when we release our inner child. Let it run and roam free. It will take you on a brighter journey.'

— Serina Hartwell
Make the child comfortable and confront it to make issues come to the surface. Be gentle in the process of letting this child out. Anything that helps me in the process is also a way of making time for myself.
There can be many reasons why we hide our inner child. But not everyone goes through life hiding their inner child. As Louise Hay says, 'It doesn't matter how old you are, there is a little child within who needs love and acceptance.'
Learning to love yourself will help in healing the inner child. Self-awareness toward the inner child is a priority for our progress.
The way to love and inner peace is through forgiveness. You have not lost your innocence. It is for this you yearn. This is your heart's desire. This is the voice you hear, and this the call which cannot be denied. The holy child remains with you. His home is yours. Today he gives you his defencelessness, and you accept it in exchange for all the toys of battle you have made. And now, the way is open and the journey, at last, has an end in sight. Be stay still an instant and go home with him, and be at peace a while.

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
Repeat the mantra: 'I nurture the child within me.'
Below is a guide you can use to nurture the inner child of yours:


Gently relax yourself and sit comfortably or lie flat.
Breath in and out to relax your body, legs, shoulders, hands, and back.
If you feel any tension in your body, focus on that area and breathe into that area, releasing the tension with the out breath.
You are in a safe place and guarded by the golden light as you are connecting with the inner child of yours.
Now visualise yourself as a young child when the trauma happened (even a vague memory or timeline is okay), standing in front of a parent or someone or the incident that may have hurt you while growing up.
Allow yourself to see the images flowing through and watch this child going through this without judging. Just let the words and images flow through.
Notice how your body is feeling with all these experiences.
Notice how the child is feeling going through the emotions at the time.
Gently hold the child in your loving arms and repeat, 'It wasn't your fault. You didn't do anything wrong. You are good. You are just a child. I love you exactly like you are, and I will never leave you.'
Notice how the child is feeling and how you are feeling now.
If, at any time, you feel overwhelmed by emotion, slow down the process by taking a few deep breaths. Breath this emotion out. When you feel calmer, begin the process where you left off, but this time a bit slower.
Now, when you see a gentle shift in the awareness, bring back the little child with you into the present moment and show how happy you are and reassure the child that all is going to be okay.
Show it the happy places around you, the people who love you, and the home you feel secure and comfortable in.
Now, it is time to say goodbye to this child and reassure it that you will visit it regularly and send love.
You may need to practice this meditation process several times to fully heal your inner child. As the emotions have been there for years, it depends on how deep the scars go. Set an intention that you are open to receiving the healing.
Congratulate yourself for beginning the process to heal this inner child of you. Well done!










2
BE PRESENT

'The present moment is filled with joy and happiness. If you are attentive, you will see it.'

— Thich Nhat Hanh
Be Happy For This Moment
This moment is your life. It will never be repeated, and all that has gone before is past. Live in the now moment. Worry not about past actions, or future consequences; but bask in the light of the present.
The biggest disease of the mind is overthinking, especially too much thinking about others or the past or future. Exist in the light and in the present. The past has no power over this present moment.
Treasure every moment that you have, and treasure it more because you shared it with someone special; special enough to be worthy enough to spend your time with.
Remember, time waits for no one. Yesterday is history. Tomorrow is a mystery. Today is a gift ... that is why it is called the present. Be happy for this moment. It won't come back. It is unique and special.
All these you must have heard or seen elsewhere before. But they are 100 per cent accurate. We are creating the future being in the now. We have no time machine that we can jump into to delete or redo the past. Wiseness lies in dealing all that we've got in this moment only.
Happy DVD
I spend my time creating happy DVDs of memories to play. It is all down to my decision, my course, and my choices along this path. We all have been trained by default to repeat the unhappy stories over and over again.

'Thinking is just a recycling of data that you have gathered in the past.'

— Sadhguru
Everything happens for the first time. You ride the bicycle for the first time, you date a person for the first time. Be here and now to make the most of it. Being present is being positive. But sometimes, things have to be rested or let go of in order to move on and make the most of what is around.

'Live as if you were to die tomorrow. Learn as if you were to live forever.'

— Mahatma Gandhi
Decisions, Decisions
When I was learning reiki, it helped me to be balanced with my thoughts and my presence. It is not that I didn't go back into the past or think of the future, I did, and still do; I am still human. But the only difference is that I found a biting point, just like in a car. When I think of the past and get upset, I cry and feel emotional and, later, realise that doing this didn't bring me any benefit. Nothing absolutely nothing. It was like playing a negative DVD in my head and was only choosing to hurt myself more and more.
Then I decide, let's not do this. I am doing my best to create happier DVDs to play in my head with lesser opportunities to dig in the past.
Old Choices
Don't let your old decisions and choices impact your current ones. You may have made a mistake as per your consciousness at the time or maybe you didn't have another choice to make. You had to do what you had to do with a lesson learned as a result of it. Be yourself just for today. No thoughts of who thinks what. Plan and do that brings joy to your life.
Don't swing back and forth with the choices you are making to be in the present, no matter what you are doing. Be clear and stick to the plan to be present. As I live in this time, I do understand the challenges we all face but practice can help us overcome these challenges.
The Guest House
This being human is a guest house.
Every morning a new arrival.
A joy, a depression, a meanness,
some momentary awareness comes
as an unexpected visitor.
Welcome and entertain them all!
Even if they are a crowd of sorrows,
who violently sweep your house
empty of its furniture,
still, treat each guest honourably.
He may be clearing you out
for some new delight.
The dark thought, the shame, the malice.
meet them at the door laughing and invite them in.
Be grateful for whatever comes.
because each has been sent
as a guide from beyond.
— Rumi

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
Simple ways to connect and rewire yourself back to the soul are shared below and these can be used anywhere and anytime:

Watch your own kids or the children around to notice how they stay in the present moment all the time. Their life has no tomorrow. Especially they are in the playground enjoying themselves. They always want to stay for 5 more minutes. When you tell them that we can come back tomorrow, they don't understand it. They don't know what tomorrow shall bring into their lives. So they want to do everything today and in this very moment.
When we negotiate things, we make promises and schedule things for the future. But when it comes to kids, we make it sound like it is happening right now. 'Movie today! But only if you clean up the mess right now.' It is the only way to make them work faster.
Flush away tensions. Tensions hold us back. Actually imagine flushing these thoughts and tensions, intentionally, down the drain into the ocean.
Take deep breaths. It is a magical remedy that always works instantly.
Reverse counting helps in relieving the tension points or the anxiety. This is simply amazing and very effective.









3
ONENESS

'All differences in this world are of degree, and not of kind, because oneness is the secret of everything.'

— Swami Vivekananda
We are connected to the source; if we are Atma (soul) then there is a higher power which is Paramatma. This is where the interlink begins. As Wayne Dyer mentions, 'A piece of rock from a mountain has its own properties when separated, but when united it is, it is called a mountain and it is all the same.' We need to see our soul as part of the bigger life, not as a separate entity.
When we look at the human level, we have issues, fear, anger, and resentments. But when we look at the souls from the soul star chakra, which is 12 inches above your crown, you see purity, oneness, uniqueness, gifts, and talents.
Reduce your desires and your problems will reduce correspondingly. Try having nothing to lose other than your problems. This is what oneness is about. You are not separate to the creation. You are part of the creation; the creator and yourself have a plan of action to accomplish from the moment you are born. Sometimes, when we have taken the form of a human, that memory can fade yet needs to be considered.

'Each time a man looks into your eyes, he is only searching to find himself; for he knows already, that he is part of you.'

— Jeremy Aldana
External vs Internal
When the external support system switches off, the internal support gets activated. It is both intense and powerful. When it is on, you will never find yourself to be alone.

'Oneness is the source of love. Real love is the One celebrating itself as the two.'

— Ram Dass
Jigsaw Puzzle
Personally, when the self-love began, the journey of belonging in myself started. I felt I was meant to be a part of the creation. I am an important piece of the jigsaw; without me it is incomplete. It does matter if I exist. Imagine if you didn't exist, what story would your family, parents, siblings, friends, school, and society would wean around? You complete others' story. No matter what is happening in your life, it is important to constantly remind yourself how relevant you are in the creation. You were born for a reason, a reason beyond your knowing.
An extract from the Bhagavad Gita:
vîta-råga-bhaya-krodhå man-mayå måm-upåçritå· bahavo jñåna-tapaså pütå mad-bhåvam ågatå·
It means: 'Being freed from attachment, fear, and anger, becoming fully absorbed in me, and taking refuge in me, many persons in the past became purified by the knowledge of me, and thus, they attained my divine love.'
To become one with ourselves and with the divine, we need to be free from any attachments that are not ours. You will see you have created this beautiful space within yourself for you and others that radiates love and light. You get that sense of your belonging to this place, this community, this planet and function from that space. Pain may be unavoidable but suffering will be optional.

Why should I suffer?
Why should we suffer?
What is suffering?
Why should one experience suffering?

At times, suffering is inevitable. I have heard this phrase hundreds of times but only started getting to work around it after being repeatedly told to do so and given instructions on how to do it. Accept it is only short-lived. And there is a silver lining at the end of it. I have embraced my low times now. I am not a supreme woman who says her life is perfect. My views towards life have changed.
As I was writing this book, I lost a part of the manuscript and spent a long time recovering it. But all failed and I had to accept that it was lost in the writing process. It gave me 12 hours of intense suffering after which I asked my IG© and accepted that there are better words to flow and replace the ones that are lost. I had to move on. Here I am writing again and taking in charge of my present. You always have the choice of moving on.
Give birth to new possibilities through your ability to reach into the future and let go of the past.
A text from ACIM,

By grace I live. By grace I am released.
By grace I live. By grace I am released.

'Oneness' is simply the idea that God is. In His being, He encompasses all things. No mind holds anything but Him.
Both the sacred books and texts say the same. It is the experience that rather be spoken about. When you have done the above work, it is easier to find the home within you. When you are in pain, you see that you are separate; I know that feeling. At the time when we don't have enough money, or we lose a loved one, things get tougher at our end and the mind gets muddled up to know what is real or not. This makes it even harder to accept that there is a reason behind all this pain. Well, my dad always reminded me of the fruits of pain being like nectar. If you know the value of what you have, then even better. Your sense of appreciation gets better and you live a more content life.
Law of Oneness
The law says that we are all connected; we all originated from the same source. It is also believed that we are all interlinked from 7 generations backwards. We all came from apes, so it could be true. We all know a person in common, right?
In one of my 'Healing Through Art' workshops, I had students from around Ireland. As the workshop began, none of them knew each other. But as we went into a coffee break, most of them realised that they have either a friend, a relation, or a neighbour in common. How small is the world when you take this context and apply it in life? What are the chances? There is also a theory that states that there are 7 of us on earth right now who look exactly alike. Are all these just coincidences or facts?

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
Don't isolate yourself with the universe. All is love and love is all.








4
LEARNING

'Tell me and I forget, teach me and I may remember, involve me and I learn.'

— Benjamin Franklin
One Small Step Forward At A Time
There is a perfect time for everything. You need to find clarity on where your path of learning is taking you. Nothing is impossible; we know what our limitations are. Live by your own rules ... you've got to make and break them. Within this process, you are getting closer to who you actually are. You will find your own strengths and weaknesses, and will know how to stretch them.
Focus is vital. Always think and try getting yourself to the other side of the mountain to see what is happening. Use your belief in solving the situation as your guide.
Curiosity is the number one step to learning.
A quote by Sonia Choquette: 'There is always a solution, I wonder what it is.' Life is a reflection of your thoughts. Change your thoughts to bring in lighter reflections. It is great to get time to see what life brings up.
The following is what has worked for me:

You learn from the past and then relearn about yourself.
Rewrite your past.


'One day, you will wake up and there won't be any more time to do the things you've always wanted. Do it now.'

— Paulo Coelho
Take just one small step forward at a time. Don't rush to get all the life lessons done at the same time. Be patient with your own self. You need clarity on where the path of learning is taking you and follow that path.
Live by your own rules. No point in being rigid to yourself. In this process, you are getting closer to who you actually are.
Create Your Beliefs
Creating your own beliefs is when you know the learnings are being implemented in your life. This process helps you to remember the solution and makes you learn it well as well. When you master explaining someone the solution, that's it, eureka! So when you create your own beliefs, you know all this work is being fruitful. Life is a reflection of your own thoughts. Change your thoughts to bring in lighter reflections.
Mistakes Are Learnings
Mistakes matter. How you recover from them matters even more. The best way to handle a mistake is to learn from it. Then you won't ever be paralysed by the fear of making another mistake. Mistakes are our biggest lessons in the process of learning.
Books And Books
Books are your best friends. When you thrive to learn, books are the best source. But with social media being so handy to use, you get tonnes of information at the click of a button. Use technology to get what you want for your soul.

'The more that you read, the more things you will know. The more that you learn, the more places you'll go.'

— Dr Seuss
One of the biggest lessons of learning that the most of us figure is to love ourselves. Love is above all. Shine your love to get more love, and, in turn, you can give more love. Love is everything.
Be open to positive learning that comes along the way.
If you are learning something about yourself, be open to all the tasks that are a part of it. If you are being challenged in some way, either positively or negatively, this is the one sign that says that there is an important soul lesson to be learned.
We learn more from our failures than we do from our successes. Sometimes, we fail to learn the lesson or get the point across and until we do, we have to keep coming back to it again and again. When you do pass it, it gets easier to move to the next levels.

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
Use the prayer below to give you courage and guidance in the most challenging situations:
Om Saha Naavavatu
Saha Nau Bhunaktu
Saha Veeryam Karavaavahai
Tejasvi Aavadheetamastu Maa
Vidvishaavahai.
This means: May the Lord protect and bless us. May He nourish us, giving us strength to work together for the good of humanity. May our learning be brilliant and purposeful. May we never turn against one another.
'Every problem has a solution. Learning is easy and fun for me.'
— Louise Hay








5
FAITH

'Faith is not the belief that God will do what you want. It is the belief that God will do what is right.'

— Max Lucado
When I heard this quote, it felt as if that is exactly where the magic in life lies. Be open to wondering what the solution is rather than placing your energy on the problem. The faith that can move mountains needs three ingredients to work—belief in yourself, belief in others, and the ability to draw on your inner strength. Faith in spirituality enables us to trust ourselves. With trust, we can let go of the past and have the courage to dare. To dare with courage gives us the confidence to know that we can achieve what we set out to achieve. If we begin with doubt instead, then we have already sown the seed of possible failure. Faith in spirituality always allows us to win. Win the battles. Battles of life are easily conquered. Every step of faith opens another chapter in our lives.
Faith and Faithful
Having faith and being faithful are two different things. When you have faith in someone, you are always committed to the fact that you are faithful, even if the results are not something that you see or would like to believe. And being faithful to this commitment is hard in our daily lives.
People have faith in their religion but when somethings go wrong in our lives, we lose our faith so easily. But why must you lose faith for someone else's mistakes? Why should you have to compromise on your faith and beliefs? Stick to them. Imagine your faith to be bigger than you.
Internal Faith
Faith is external and internal as well. Do you have faith in your mission? Do you have confidence in your talent? On your success? On your strength? If so, great. If not, ask why not? Who has faith on you? Look around, who has your light? It is like passing on the Olympic torch when they open the ceremony. One person lights the torch and then they pass it on until they light up the big one. It is amazing how we all can work for each other and for bigger missions. Bring that light to you. It will help you have faith in you.

'Faith is taking the first step even when you don't see the whole staircase.'

— Martin Luther King, Jr.
Restore Faith
Stress is when you lose faith and replace it with fear. If you have faith, then you are always certain, although never in control. If you truly have faith, yet the outcome of an event isn't what it was supposed to be ... well, then you know that the outcome is. In fact, it is exactly what it is supposed to be. Because I have confidence and certainty, I don't allow outcomes or context to give me stress. I believe and I move forward.
References of faith in the Bible state—Matthew 17:20, He replied, 'Because you have so little faith. Truly I tell you, if you have faith as small as a mustard seed, you can say to this mountain, "Move from here to there," and it will move. Nothing will be impossible for you.'

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:

Practice faith (by listening to the quiet voice of intuition) and trust that you will be taken care of. I talk to God or the universe and say, 'Please fix it; now I surrender and give You the charge for it now.'
Sometimes when you are surrounded by children, it helps in restoring faith as they spread the light. They shower us with positive words that often restores the faith in us.
Keep reminding yourselves of the moments when things worked well. This helps to regain the confidence.
 Write a journal and keep records of details that made you feel successful and happy. When you are having a low moment, you can always check back in and refer to those parts. Isn't it a great way to recollect memories. These memories can never be faded away.
Pick an Oracle Angel card, if you have one. Believe me, you will find the right card with positive things that will restore your faith.









6
LIFE IS MAGIC

'We do not need magic to transform our world. We carry all of the power we need inside ourselves already.'

— J.K. Rowling
Life is out of the lines and we need to review it constantly. We need not be stuck to the ways we were raised within the boxes. Bring in the courage to explore outside the box. Life is magic and miracles come to us in the flow of things only when we allow them to. It is as simple as that! It is the surprise that brings in at every corner that we wake up and look forward to.
We all grew up with conditions from the family, society, and community and always tried to fit in between the lines. Over time and space, when we eventually come out of these lines, we find the real life with inner beauty. No conditions and only freedom to your soul. This is who you are. Accept it even if you are different. We are all born with unique gifts and talents. Take that first step with your curiosity to come out of the lines and experience this journey towards inner self. It is waiting for you. Live with content. Accept as you are.
Have You Ever Thought About It?
This is the start of your inner calling. Don't be afraid to follow this question. It might seem an unsteady path, but as you place your step forward, it will be revealed to you like a flourescent radiant path. There will be no turning back; only forward and inwards.
This path is narrow and the baggage you are carrying has to be let go of for you to be able to move forward. You are reducing the baggage in all terms like anger, fear, worries, forgiveness, etc. But expanding on your conscious state like light, love, radiance ... can it be done?
Yes, can be; if I can do it anyone can.
The only thing is that some find it quickly and some through a slow process. No matter where you are right now in your path, there is a beauty to follow the inner ding.
Life Is Magic
All you need to do is dream. Only when you dream can your wishes be fulfilled. There is a lot to be learned about your dreams. Firstly, though, you need to come out of your comfort zone to dream with no strings attached. Only then your wishes can be fulfilled.
I used to love going to fortune tellers to find out about my future, but the magic was missing. I used to set my expectations on the results, either good or bad. However, I let these sit in the back of my head. By working on my dreams instead, this is what I learned—you drive yourself to the goals, so these can be your ladder to success. Also, I learned to not take the fortune tellers too seriously as the readings are accurate as per the energy in that moment and we are constantly changing, hence, our course is changing as well. I can only create the miracles in my life by believing in my magic. I won't give this power away to anyone. Just like the magician keeps practicing his skills before performing to the audience, we need to practice in creating our magic moments. Start small so it is easy to build up the muscles.

'When you stop expecting people to be perfect, you can like them for who they are.'

— Donald Miller

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
Let the magic flow like a river. Sometimes, a river may need to move out of its natural habitat to where it needs to be more utilised. In the same way, let the magic of life flow to the areas in your life that need uplifting. Just like that, your life needs to flow where it is required. Never see yourself stuck in the same place as you have the strength of a river to flow in places you need to reach.
Magic is believing in yourself and if you can do that you can make anything possible. That is the strength that your IG© provides with.
'Where there is love there is light.
Where there is light there is hope.
Where there is hope there is a miracle.'
— Anna Pereira

Is It For Real?
Ask yourself:

Who is creating issues in my life?
Who is stopping the prosperity from coming in my life?
Who is doubting the key potential success?
Who is avoiding the joy in my life?

We are the ones who are creating the havoc in life. It is okay; we all do at some point of our lives knowingly or unknowingly. But we can always change this and twist it around. But it can only happen with your permission. You have got to give permission for a better side of you.
Try it out! Nothing to lose. Only to gain magic.







7
HAPPINESS

'Happiness is when what you think, what you say, and what you do are in harmony.'

— Mahatma Gandhi
I am responsible for my own happiness. We need to keep those boundaries so no one can come in without our prior permission. Our happiness is what we create by building trust within ourselves and relationships, casting out fear, and accepting what we have.

'Your happiness depends upon your very own thoughts. No one else can think your thoughts for you. Deliberately think thoughts of what you want because they're the thoughts that make you happy.'

— Rhonda Byrne
Happiness is a state of mind and the goal of a human life is to sustain that state of mind. Happiness is your choice; it totally depends on one's attitude and the perception of each situation which, in turn, will result in him/her being happy or not. Don't wait for happiness to come to your home. Keep the door always open. It is a mere thought away from you. You are never responsible for other people's happiness.
I was told, when I was younger, that I was the cause for unhappiness in my home. I was a tough child and had to be dealt with right from birth. I had taken that sentence and lived by it and let it affect my present. But it soon became a choice—should I let go? I chose to let go to be here and write this book. With all the actions taken from past chapters, it gets easier and doable. I turned inwards to bring and create my own happiness around me.
Don't let anyone steal this from you. Do something every day that brings joy to your life. Even a small act is okay.

'I usually say the aim of life is to be happy. Our existence is based on hope. Our life is rooted in the opportunity to be happy, not necessarily wealthy, but happy within our own minds. If we only indulge in sensory pleasure, we'll be little different from animals. In fact, we have this marvellous brain and intelligence; we must learn to use it.'

— Dalai Lama
Consciously Happy
Being happy for myself was not a choice or a learning I had growing up. But once I realised it through all the work being done on the soul and while reading good books, it made me wonder if I look at my life as a half empty glass and whether I would always feel that way. Don't I deserve better than that? Am I not worth it? Why should I deny my happiness and not grab that pot that has my happiness share? Pause and think. If you don't take this decision who else will do it for you? Even Cinderella had to make a choice to go to the party and have fun apart from all the hassles she was in, which led her to change her story forever.
You, too, can change the state you are in. The secret to life's purpose is to be happy. In order to be truly and permanently happy, we have to fulfil our best intentions and act on them right away, even if that means we start by just giving good thoughts to them. Happiness is not a dependency; it is a decision. You don't actually need anything to be happy. When you radiate happy energy, you'll be amazed what it attracts into your life. We need an inside-out approach, where we discover who we are and where our happy points are. Decide now. Be happy and watch magic begin to enter your life.
My mantra for the change is my chant: 'I am responsible for my own happiness.' Repeat it until you actually feel this space that you are creating. We need to keep those boundaries so no one can come in without our permission. Happiness is a state of mind and the goal of human life is to stay in that state of mind. The happiness you give makes you happier than the happiness you receive.
If someone is interfering with your state, they may want to be benefitted from your space. Extend the invite to others to see what you are experiencing. But have a gentle hold on your boundaries too. When you shine, your light is contagious and more and more people would like to be in your zone.
A Choice
The easy way to remain happy is to remain constantly light. Pure thoughts are light and unwanted thoughts are heavy. Therefore, keep your intellect busy with pure thoughts and you will become light and continue to dance in happiness.
You feel good inside out while giving joy. Of course, when you receive the gifts of happiness, you first receive and then and surrender yourself. If someone gives you love, won't you surrender for them?

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
Believe in yourself and welcome the happiness into your door. Surround yourself with loved ones, including family and friends or nature. This raises our vibrations and we want more of it too often. When surrounded by family and friends listen to them attentively this helps us listening to them with no pre judgements and form a better relationship.
An extract from the Bhagavad Gita:
'Sama-duhkha-sukhah sva-sthah
sama-lostasma-kanchanah
tulya-priyapriyo dhiras
tulya-nindatma-samstutih.'
Sri Krishna said to Arjuna: 'One who is situated in the Self (soul) and behaves the same during happiness and distress; one who looks upon a lump of earth, a stone, and a piece of gold with an equal eye; one who is equal toward the desirable and the undesirable; one who is situated equally well in praise and blame is the one who is of steady mind.'
Be happy and spread it around like ripples in the lake. Repeat the mantra: 'I embrace my happy feelings, and enjoy being content.'
Cultivate the habit of happiness by choosing the level of extension you are looking for.

Chant happy words. The most it is needed is when you can't see any positive words around yourself.
Truly enjoy the moments with no guilt.
Enjoy for your own existence. Celebrate it in style. Especially your birthday. Don't wait for others to celebrate it.
 At the end of the day, write 3 happy experiences you had and place an infinity symbol beside it. ∞
Plan for 3 things that will bring happiness for the next day.

Happiness is not always a big state. Little joys are your moments to think of. Your IG© is always delighted to see you happy and surrounded by smiles. Smiles and happiness are like diamonds and gold. Wear them always.








Sutra 7
CREATIVENESS

'To be creative means to be in love with life. You can be creative only if you love life enough that you want to enhance its beauty, you want to bring a little more music to it, a little more poetry to it, a little more dance to it.'

— Osho








1
COLOUR YOUR LIFE

'Love was a feeling completely bound up with color, like thousands of rainbows superimposed one on top of the other.'

— Paulo Coelho
Colours are a very important part of our lives. They influence our existence and mind-body-soul relations, influencing us to shift our mood. Specific colour influence affects us intensely—our behaviours and temper—depending on spiritual and individual characteristics. Everybody has a different reaction.
Colours Influence
Specific colours influence our behaviour, actions, moods, and characteristics. As part of my inner awakening, I found myself changing tones of my colours. Colours are fun to play with but depends how much we are open to playing and being playful with them. I was a fan of black most part of life until I did my reiki level 1 training. Since then, purples and whites have been my favourite along with greens, oranges, and reds. I never imagined I would introduce so much colour into my wardrobe. It surprises me every time I shop for these colours and sometimes feel the need to ask myself if this is really me.
The senses of colours are reflections to our emotions and links to our chakras as well. Sense of colour reflects to the sense of life.
From my interactions with the students and clients who are into spiritual awakening, I've noticed that the colours they choose are brighter and clearer. It may be for either their wardrobe, room décor, jewellery, etc. The colour you wear today is telling a story about you. It is like an access to your emotions or a door to your soul.
Create It Now
It is not about someone telling you who you are, but about you realising who you truly are. The best way to create more free time is by creating it for yourself. Don't wait for permission to be given. Show up to what you like. I am hearing people waiting for their kids to grow up or for themselves to retire before they hold the space for creativity. But why? For so long? Can we not get 10 minutes in a day or 30 minutes in a week to do something we like? Maybe it is not your priority list. If so, go back and check what you can shift down.
Plan when you are in control. And do it now. All is happening in this now. When it comes to your child, do you say 'wait until you are old enough to paint'? No, we give them a paint brush when they are as young as 1. So then, why the injustice when it comes to you? Why must you define such low standards for your soul?
As a child, I was always sketching and drawing. I had to stop when I got into college and got busy. When I came to Ireland in 2001, I had no family with me other than my husband. I wasn't working at the time and used to feel homesick quite often. But one day, I went and got myself a small canvas, art book, and painting materials and that's it! I was hooked to it. After that, I never felt tired or stressed or even lonely.
When I look back, the artwork I created was mostly lines, stiff as per my life. Art speaks the soul's language. Selling them was easy as when friends looked at the work, they felt a connection with it. But the important thing was that I was doing it for me and not for the sales; when I set that intention, it was so liberating.
I had no prior professional art knowledge. I just intuitively came from the heart. Sometimes, as I start my work, I completely engage myself into the colours and palette. I usually go for more blues or reds and, sometime, more greens. This decision is entirely left upon what is happening in my life at that moment of time. I completely trust the inner child to bring the best for me.
Art was my medication for homesickness and loneliness. It can serve another purpose for you, depending on your issues and problems at the time. Ask what lights you up and what would you like to do if you had the time and money?
Life is a festival, live it fully.

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
Today is a new day to start with a clean slate and fill in the colours of your soul.

What Are Your Colours Telling You Today?
Colours are a vibration of light. They bring in balance into our lives in a very easy and accessible method that people can use to help heal themselves. We are naturally drawn to the colours whose frequency we need more of and which correlate with our energy deficiency.
First, pay attention to which colours you are attracted to right now. Look at your wardrobe; with no judgements, notice the colours in your space. Let this information sink in.


Red: Red is the colour of fire and blood, so it is associated with energy, war, danger, strength, power, determination, as well as passion, desire, and love. Red is a very emotionally intense colour. It enhances human metabolism, increases respiration rate, and raises blood pressure.

Orange: Orange is associated with meanings of joy, warmth, heat, sunshine, enthusiasm, creativity, success, encouragement, change, determination, health, stimulation, happiness, fun, enjoyment, balance, sexuality, freedom, expression, and fascination. Orange is the colour of joy and creativity.

Yellow: Yellow, the colour of sunshine, hope, and happiness, has conflicting associations. On one hand yellow stands for freshness, happiness, positivity, clarity, energy, optimism, enlightenment, remembrance, intellect, honour, loyalty, and joy, but on the other, it represents cowardice and deceit.

Green: Green, the colour of life, renewal, nature, and energy, is associated with meanings of growth, harmony, freshness, safety, fertility, and environment. Green is also traditionally associated with money, finances, banking, ambition, greed, jealousy, and wall street.

Blue: Blue is the colour of the sky and sea. It is often associated with depth and stability. It symbolises trust, loyalty, wisdom, confidence, intelligence, faith, truth, and heaven. Blue is considered beneficial to the mind and body. It slows down human metabolism and produces a calming effect.

Indigo: The colour indigo is the colour of intuition and perception and is helpful in opening the third eye. It promotes deep concentration during times of introspection and meditation, helping you achieve deeper levels of consciousness.

Violet: Purple and violet represent the future, the imagination and dreams, while spiritually calming the emotions. They inspire and enhance psychic ability and spiritual enlightenment, while, at the same time, keeping us grounded.

White: White is associated with light, goodness, innocence, purity, and virginity. It is considered to be the colour of perfection. White means safety, purity, and cleanliness. As opposed to black, white usually has a positive connotation. White can represent a successful beginning.

Black: Black is associated with power, elegance, formality, death, evil, and mystery. Black is a mysterious colour associated with fear and the unknown (black holes). It usually has a negative connotation. Black is also for grounding.

Gold: The colour gold is cousin to the colour yellow and brown, and is also associated with illumination, love, compassion, courage, passion, magic, and wisdom. Gold is a precious metal that is associated with wealth, grandeur, and prosperity, as well as sparkle, glitz, and glamour.

Silver: The colour silver has a feminine energy; it is related to the moon and the ebb and flow of the tides—it is fluid, emotional, sensitive, and mysterious. It is soothing, calming, and purifying.

Pink: The colour pink is the colour of universal love of oneself and of others. Pink represents friendship, affection, harmony, inner peace, and approachability.








2
CREATIVE SELF

'You were born to create, regardless of the outcome.'

— Elizabeth Gilbert
You are a creative being. Each one of us has a special kind of an artist born with a creative sense. Creative people always believe they are creative. You must have the passion and the determination to immerse yourself in the process of creating new and different ideas. Always remember, there is a creative energy within us that wants to express itself through us. Be open to all methods and see which suits your soul.
As Patanjali mentions, 'When you are inspired ... dormant forces, faculties, and talents become alive, and you discover yourself to be a greater person by far than you ever dreamed yourself to be.' Creativity brings out the inner child.

'Inside you there's an artist you don't know about ... say yes quickly, if you know, if you've known it from before the beginning of the universe.'

— Rumi
A Moment
Take a moment to think of yourself as a child—the child who had the free will to do anything that you wanted. There were no restrictions. Time was not a constraint; money was not a constraint. What was that you enjoyed most at that part of your life? It could be art, music, dance, playing in the sun, games, paper craft, anything that you loved doing.
Back in the present moment, ask yourself why that was lost in the past? Why weren't you able to bring it along with you in the present? Who stopped you? What stopped you? Your ideas? Your thoughts? Did anyone say anything to upset you?
Right now who has control over you—you or your thoughts? It may even be the beliefs from the past. The right answer is within you. Your IG© directs you to your creative self. Most of the psychologists are suggesting to take up colouring as a hobby. It is good for your well-being and mental health. Why not? What is the harm in doing it for 10 minutes? When I go to a restaurant, the kids get colouring paper to keep them busy. I ask one for myself too and get engaged into it. Who is stopping me?
When you lack creativity, you lack life. You live by rules and perform by scores. There is no bigger picture seen in life. It creates a hollowness in your heart. Go into your inner guidance, find the emptiness, and work backwards. Set an appointment with your inner child to meet and greet and fill in the space.
Creativity is the playfulness of that moment. When I am engaged in a creative moment, I shut the doors for external contacts or the chatterbox in my mind. It is meditation to me. It is a sacred time for me.
Let the creative juices flow in. Inspire yourself and inspire others. You will feel lighter, happier, and fuller.
Nature Healing
Nature gives inspiration and love. Bring nature closer to you if you can't go far.

May be print a poster of a forest or waterfall.
Hold a beach stone while meditating.
Visualise yourself with your feet on the grass or at the beach.
Listen to the music of nature.

It is the intention that matters as to how we use nature as an inspirational tool. When I feel clumsy, I go out and breathe fresh air and walk in the garden or at the beach and recharge. It is like plugging into the nature to recharge your batteries of life. Mother Earth has amazing healing properties for our soul. You just need to follow your IG© and go with the flow rather than question it.
There is no perfect line or perfectionism. My life was always compared to my brother who was perfect in everything. I was the one who had to grow up and learn and undo things. But I've come to realise that there is no perfectionism. We define it to our convenience. Is there a perfect leaf or tree in nature? If nature can't hold a perfect tree, why the pressure on humans?
I am not perfect; hence I am here to learn my lessons.

'Who are you to judge the life I live?
I know I'm not perfect
—and I don't live to be—
but before you start pointing fingers ...
make sure your hands are clean!'

— Bob Marley
You are just fine as you are. I do feel insecure, doubt myself, and hold negative self-talks but I come back accepting my flaws and praising my best side. I look to develop myself and my soul and my IG© is happy to show me the path. Be ready to accept all your feelings. We are only limited editions for a limited time to experience life.
When we open our creative centre, we are ready to welcome life with both hands. Live it to the fullest. Remember, your IG© wants the best for you. Nothing less, nothing more.

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
Explore yourself from your creative centre. Solar plexus chakra is the creative centre and holds our inner child. Gently massage your abdomen and repeat, 'I am ready to open my creative centre and my inner child.' Let the inner child come and have fun.

Self-awareness
Self-awareness is very important in expressing your creative side. We need to have fun with the inner child. Don't leave behind your inner child and go forward in your life. As part of you, it will always be with you. It is a team work. We all have anger, fear, grudges, etc. When we are aware of them, we can accept and learn ways to release them. Doing your favourite thing will bring in the ways to release them easily and with flow.

'Watch your thoughts;
They become words.
Watch your words;
They become actions.
Watch your actions;
They become habits.
Watch your habits;
They become character.
Watch you character;
It becomes your destiny.'

— Lao Tzu







3
DON'T COMPARE

'Personality begins where comparison leaves off. Be unique. Be memorable. Be confident. Be proud.'

— Shannon L. Alder
You are unique and you need to accept this fact. Would it not be boring to walk into a place and find everyone else being the same? Same clothes and colours, including the personalities. The identification of who you are is lost then. Remember when you came into this world? You brought your gifts and talents that are needed for Mother Earth. If not, there would be no point in our existence.
I try to see uniqueness in my kids. Yes, my kids do ask me whose dance skills and routines I prefer out of the two. It gets tricky but I always reassure them both that they will always shine through in life, not because one might be better than the other, but because they are both unique in their own way. That's the main thing. We are unique. We will always be.
Living in The Taboo of a Dream Life
Dream home, dream partner, dream kids, dream reality ... do they even exist? When we are hit hard, all the dreams are shattered like a broken mirror and only then do we see the real us. This is an awakening, and here is where our journey begins. Look at what you have rather than what you don't have now. You are funny, smart, beautiful, kind, wonderful, and important! You are you, and that is perfectly amazing. If we're all one after all, then how does it matter what another perceivably has over us. The awesomeness is that I recognise the awesomeness in you. Don't change for anyone. Be yourself. Love yourself. Be true to yourself.
When you change for others, you are also expecting them to change for you, right? This, in turn, leads to expectations and disappointment. Why can't we accept the person as it is? Is it something we need to work on ourselves inwardly?
Can't Compare
We can't compare ourselves with what is happening in someone else's mind. We will never understand why they think what they think about us or even about themselves. Remember to be yourself. The society and people remember what you want them to remember. And it is you who is living your life and not them. Just like the headlines change, your story for them changes too. No matter what you do, they will still think what they want to. The people around us love us or dislike us depending on the needs of their soul.
Be comfortable with who you are inside out. This includes your body image and thoughts or emotions. You may be successful and an all-rounder but may also feel shallow deep inside. The same happens when you compare yourself to any other around you. Each one of us have a package to be worked out and looked into. Once you are happy and content, you look radiant, confident, and amazing. It is about you with your strengths and weaknesses—a complete package that needs to be nourished and praised.
I used to think I was the worst one around with all the issues. Everyone else seemed happy and sorted with no nothing to worry about. When I started practicing reiki on my clients, that is where the reality hit me. The 'perfect' lives of others is an illusion and like that many of us live in the illusion of the other side being greener.
One size does not fit all.
In recent years, social media has a huge presence in everyone's life but don't be affected by what is being posted on it. They are only a glimpse of that moment and not the whole truth. So, before you declare you have a better life than others or others have a better life than you, think and reassess.

Life is not about being better than someone else. It is about allowing yourself to grow to your fullest potential.

— Sadhguru
We all compare ourselves with others even though we know it is not the best idea. This becomes our habit and our normal. Many times, when we look at each other in the workplace or family gatherings or weddings, we automatically start comparing in our minds. 'She is so beautiful and slim', 'he has a bigger car than me', 'he is happily married with 2 kids'. When these thoughts enter your head, you are sending the signal which says, 'I want to be like him/her; I am not happy where I am now.'
By doing this, you are not accepting your own self and, as a result, self-pity and self-criticism awakens. Be honest, accept yourself and you will feel good and your self-esteem will increase. Once you stop comparing, you feel you have created more space in your mind to prioritise yourself, be more focused and relaxed. You are less self-consciousness and this helps to be who you are. Your self-esteem boosts and you identify your uniqueness and so do others. As we see weeds growing in our garden, we either spray weed remover or pluck them from the roots. Similarly, we need to take action when you see such judgements and thoughts coming your way. You can change and replace them with positive thoughts or accept and not pay attention to them. The choice is always yours.
As you developed the habit of comparing yourself with others over years, you can't undo it overnight but slowly and steadily, with much patience, you can reverse it.

 You can achieve it by focussing on what is important to you rather than what others think about you.
Remind yourself constantly how unique and perfect you are.
Accept that everyone is different and that we all are a team for the planet.
Believe in yourself more than ever.

Don't change for anyone; be yourself, love yourself.
You are on this planet and in this time for a reason. We are all unique and our radiance is different. If the world would be white and black, would it not be dull? Hence, the colours. Just like they glow in our minds, the uniqueness glows on earth. Remember, you are as important a part as anyone else. The more you appreciate your own qualities, the stronger they will become.
We worry too much about what other people think. Believe in yourself even when others don't.
Firstly, let go of comparing. Repeat positive affirmations and mean it. Start simple—'I like my eyes', 'my smiles radiate my face'. Be genuine and authentic. You are true to yourself. Remember, if you fake it, it is you whom you are lying to in the end. By practicing affirmations, self-love and self-acceptance increase and criticism decreases. Time to undo the damages of the past.
Self-accept
Acceptance is what allows us to change. We begin the journey inwards to outwards. You will find peace when you surrender to accept yourself. Compare yourself with yourself of the past and you to the you of now. The 'happy you'. Things are changing, so will you too.

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
A quote from the Bible:
Psalm 139:13-14—You alone created my inner being. You knitted me together inside my mother. I will give thanks to you because I have been so amazingly and miraculously made. Your works are miraculous, and my soul is fully aware of this.








4
LIFE IS NOT PERFECT

'The purpose of our lives is to be happy.'

— Dalai Lama
Timing is everything. Always be gentle with yourself. It is not meant to be if we keep questioning and being in a place where there is no light. See things as they are and not more or less. As we are always great in self-criticising, it is the mind that needs to be taught the facts once again.
Don't judge someone because they didn't do it your way. It could be their own way. Are you afraid of reflections? What you believe in is what you are. Take full responsibility for everything in your life. We are only responsible for our state. Life is about the moment we are creating. Everything is happening to us right now in this space, not what has happened in the past or will happen in the future. When our mind is calmer, it helps us see the bigger picture. Life is outside the lines.

'If you look for perfection, you'll never be content.'

— Leo Tolstoy
If I allow my mind to carry burdens, I will experience heaviness and will become tired easily. It is my choice not to, as well. Feel good something magnificent is going to happen and let miracles show up in your life.
Not the parents, not the government, nor the society is responsible for you. It is you that chooses these conscious decisions. It is okay to feel vulnerable and low but remember that is not your home. It is only a visitor's place. One positive thought can change the situation you are in. Think and pause for a minute and reflect on what is around you. Ask yourself what is making you be in the situation and who is responsible for it. Accept the fact and see how you can change the decisions and choices right now to come out of it. Only when we take responsibility of our situations can we can take actions to make things work out.
You Are As Large As Your Dream
Always remind yourself that you are as large as your dreams. It is your imagination; no one imposes any taxes on dreams. So, dream big. Life in not meant to be perfect. You have got to make it perfect for you. 65,000 thoughts a day is what an average human has in just 24 hours. Same thoughts create same behaviours, same situations, and same circumstances. Giving yourself space to recharge with new thoughts, ideas, and inspiration.
Research shows that the thoughts are mostly from the past that we keep worrying about or what we want or could happen in the future. There is nothing we can do about the past other than learn and move on. And there is nothing we can do about the future as it hasn't happened yet. To make your mind calm, all you need to do is bring your awareness to the present and load yourself with oxygen.

'It is better to live your own destiny imperfectly than to live an imitation of somebody else's life with perfection.'

— The Bhagavad Gita
Self-regard
The only way to boost your self-regard is to respect your opinion and honour it. Honour it for yourself and not for others. Make the choices for you. You are stronger than you think and you are good at your choices. Don't be easily swayed by the external factors. When you do what is right for you, other forces are lessened in your life. Firstly, check what your IG© says on your choices and then look elsewhere. The latter is not required once you are connected to your IG©.
Remember to appreciate yourself more than what others are doing. This journey you are on is yours and only you know the milestones, crossroads, and paths you have come across. Time to pat yourself on the back. Always compare like to like. You are only human. Humans are meant to make mistakes, have flaws, and need support and encouragement. This is the reason that we picked this lifetime to learn these lessons.
Emotions are contagious. So is perfectionism. Problems are the opportunities to growth. Perfection doesn't exist when we are evolving and continuously growing.
I am not a perfect soul; there is no fun in being perfect anyway. I have flaws but I try and embrace them, work on them, and learn from them. That is what life is about. I speak from what I have worked on and what can be helpful. If something worked for me, I'm sure it might work for another soul on the planet. So try it out with an open mind. Accept yourself and love yourself.

Respect the light within you.
The world is waiting for you.
Step into it it and shine high.


#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
It's time to lift that veil of being perfect.
Step forward.
Embrace yourself fully.
Reveal the true self to the world.
The world needs you.
You need the TRUE YOU.

Wakefulness Moments
The opportunity to teach came to my life in 2002. It was to teach Indian cooking to a few people. A few had signed up for the class but the day before the class was to happen, I called them all to inform them it had been cancelled. I pulled myself back because of my fears and insecurities. I thought I couldn't do it and that I was not good enough to teach, etc.
Why will anyone want to learn from me? What have I got to teach? I cook with passion for my family and friends and why would anyone want to learn simple home cooking?
In 2012, after working upon myself and my confidence, I won 2nd place in a curry competition held by a leading community organisation and a top restaurant in Ireland. I came in 1st place in 2013 and got into the initial round of MasterChef Ireland. So here were the realities and a lesson for me.
The preaching we do to ourselves might not be 100 per cent right. We might be completely opposite to who we think we are. Opportunities knock back if we are meant to be doing it. It doesn't that I am a professional cook or will teach cooking to others. It is much bigger. I am teaching what I practice. It could be anything that I can apply the same concept to in my life.
Once you have good knowledge of a subject, you will be able to share it. Don't see it as a chore but see it as something fun. Firstly, do you enjoy it? If you enjoy doing something, share it. Someone might be inspired by what you do. When you practice something only then can you see the value of it.
On this path of wakefulness, I found help from the below aspects:

Angels: It is a blessing to be awakened to the gift of angels. Just call in and ask for help no matter how small or big it may be. Smaller the better.
Space clearing: Space clearing is an important part of your spiritual progress. It is not always about the home but also your mind. This is a wonderful tool I found very helpful to overcome my stress and anxiety. Have a mind map in your head where most of the clutter is in and what is it leading you up to who you are now. And see what can you delete from your system.
Declutter the mind: This becomes easier once you know where your clutter is.
Create rituals: Rituals are very important in any part of our life. It defines who we are. It is something you might be doing without being aware of it. Like waking up and heading straight to the coffee machine. It is the way you treat yourself in the morning.
Meditation: Even if only for 2 minutes, this is a good habit to cultivate.








5
INWARDS JOURNEY

'The important thing is not to stop questioning. Curiosity has its own reason for existing. One cannot help but be in awe when he contemplates the mysteries of eternity, of life, of the marvellous structure of reality. It is enough if one tries merely to comprehend a little of this mystery every day. Never lose a holy curiosity.'

— Albert Einstein
Your inner strength is revealed by your gentle nature and tender heart that can be seen and felt. As Sadhguru mentions, 'When you have an important responsibility, you must have an inner strength that will not be changed or threatened by external situations.' Going inwards is the solution to everything; the answers are within you. But we forget and look for them everywhere else. You get what you were meant to not what you want.
Outwards to Inwards
When we are focussed outwards, we attract a lot that is not ours and find discomfort in trying to get rid of it. We then start to feel and notice this external baggage as our own in no time. You will notice that you are moving forward into your soul's blueprint in alignment when you are comfortable in saying no without giving justifications to anyone. You are special and have an important mission that you need to accomplish. Ask yourself what is your highest purpose for today. Rather than thinking 'what can I get?' you can ask 'what can I give?', 'how do I serve?'. Each morning will identify you on the path you are aligned with and bring in the space to do the work you came here to do.

'When you have an important responsibility, you must have an inner strength that will not be changed or threatened by external situations.

— Sadhguru
You get excited in the morning and open your eyes with gratitude. You let go of expectations and detach from the end results. Just let the things flow in its own pace.

'Speech is a window on the soul. You will succeed far more by opening the window than by keeping it shut.'

— Deepak Chopra
You let the magic happen in its own time rather than making it happen before or after the divine timing. Just like having the perfect avocado. You are in sync with yourself and not in comparison to anyone as it is your own path towards the lessons to be learned. Giving time to yourself for not being guilty is what leads to the inward movement. You are special and have an important mission to be accomplished.
Each one of us has an inner strength to pull us through tough times. This is the inner strength that resides inside each living being to make decisions, act, handle, and execute any aim or task, regardless of inner resistance, discomfort, or difficulty. It manifests as inner firmness, decisiveness, determination, resolution, and persistence. Even the animal, when it senses fear, runs away.

'Therefore, without being attached to the fruits of activities, one should act as a matter of duty, for by working without attachment one attains the Supreme.'

— The Bhagavad Gita
Emotions
Are your emotions easily affected by people and situations you are in? If so, then, like the sea, when the weather is calm your waves roll gently. But when stormy winds blow, you become wild and out of control. Is that true? How can one possibly not be angry at a situation or a person or past events? Is it even possible to not be angry? Are there any tools to reduce or control anger or let go of it easily?
Firstly, accept that it is okay to be angry and that it is only a part of an emotion. Just like the passing clouds, it is not completely you or like the whole sky. All emotions come and go. Nothing stays permanently with us. Before it takes over our space, we must tackle it.
I grew up being a short-tempered person. I only realised when my parents visited me in Ireland a couple of years ago how much I have changed. Looking back, things have changed in me, not the situations. Like any of us, I do sometimes get angry but I now pause and look at it in a different dimension.
I use tapping, also called EFT (Emotional Freedom Technique), to release my emotions. When I can't express and am not sure where a particular emotion is coming from and hurting me, I tap on the points to relieve the pressure that is being built. The origin can be from my past, but sometimes I may not even know the origin. That is okay but it is more important that I know I am healed now. I personally love tapping and it is so easy to do as a family.

'In turning inward, life opens up dimensions and possibilities unknown.'

— Sadhguru

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
The ways in which I tune myself when angry, depending on the situation and cause, are listed below:

If you are angry, count to 10 and your anger will be gone. It is only in the last few years that it has started working for me because I am being more mindful. I do try to reverse my way to be more aware of my body emotions.
Take a moment to write the details down. Yes, I do a lot of emphasis to write things down as it is a healing on its own and a powerful one, too. And when you write them, do look back. Can you change any of them? If so, please write an action plan. What is there to be angry now?
Things that you have written which haven't been resolved and you are still angry about, take a deep breath and think if they are any good being a part of you, if they are still creating much stress or anger in your current life. It could be an incident, person, or situation.
Release it ... take 3 gentle breaths in and out and repeat the mantra—I am letting go of the anger from my body and mind; I am bringing in more peace and calmness in my life.

Make sure to acknowledge this part of you and respect that part which is in discomfort. We are only here to learn and conquer. Your IG© constantly supports you in this journey to bring the best in you.
When the mind is quiet, it is easier to require. If you practice meditation or other creative techniques, it going to be an easier path.








6
SOUL PURPOSE

'The purpose of life is not to be happy. It is to be useful, to be honourable, to be compassionate, to have it make some difference that you have lived and lived well.'

— Ralph Waldo Emerson
To be peaceful is to be free from expectations. Free yourself to raise your vibrations; being perfect is not always fun. When you let yourself loosen up a bit, you will find your inner peace. This peace will help you to expect less from others. When you don't expect, that is where the magic begins, because the you don't put boundaries into your thoughts. It could be small or big, depending on what is required for your soul. Every little joy will bring more awareness to your soul, and help you to find the peace within.
Be Open, Free Up, and Live in Peace
We are often surrounded by so much expectations from others and ourselves, that we miss that peace within us and start hunting outside of us for it. Step by step, slow down on the expectations. You are perfect as you are. You are meant to be this way to go upwards and downwards. Don't be hard on yourself and always remember you are a beautiful soul.
You see people around you claiming they can help you find your soul purpose and the purpose of your existence. But before you book any those sessions, ask yourself, don't you know it already? Why are looking for others to confirm it?
Just for a minute, believe in what you already know. Ask yourself, 'How do I bring myself closer to what my soul purpose is?' Your IG© will help you fill in those gaps and details. All you need to do is take a journal and jot them down without any doubts. List them out and see how your body reacts and do more of it. Don't compromise on these tasks. You are an important part of the universe's existence and the big puzzle. So, your journey is very important.

'The mystery of human existence lies not in just staying alive, but in finding something to live for.'

— Fyodor Dostoyevsky
The purpose of life is to contribute in some way to making things better.
As Steve Maraboli says, 'You were put on this earth to achieve your greatest self, to live out your purpose, and to do it courageously.' Isn't it exactly what our life purpose is about? Our true self is always open and true. The only thing that stops us from realising it is our own selves.

I would like to love
and be loved.
I would like to live my life
and help you to live yours.
Love is not about selfish love
but rather about caring for one another,
helping to nurture our fundamental kindness.

— Waylon Lewis
Living Your Truth
Living my truth also taught me to let go of my shame. I have spent my teenage years in that feeling and my 20s in living with the fact that I wasn't good enough. It is the beliefs of the surroundings and mirroring effect we get into. But, if you still think you are not good enough, who is telling you this? Did someone create this belief in you because they think they are not as well? What is good enough? Who is a perfect human? Who defines it? What is a perfectionist? Is it the universe? Definitely not. It is all based on culture and society. All these self-questions will help us find the path to the soul.
Walking Your Talk

'Yesterday I was clever, so I wanted to change the world. Today I am wise, so I am changing myself.'

— Rumi
After learning reiki, I was so enthusiastically wanting to convert my learnings into my desired life, as I saw that with energy healing techniques, how miraculously things can be changed. Well, if you are in the right path, it is easier to follow your IG©. It doesn't mean that the challenges don't exist, the perception to look at these changes gradually. And seeing these changes made me think to include everyone to this path of self-healing. But only later did I realise that everyone has their own divine timing and I can't change everyone. The change in me will reflect on all to try various alternative options and so, I took a back seat to work on myself. You learn this valuable lesson only from experience.
As A Course in Miracles says, 'To teach is to learn.' This is so right; when I teach, I learn so much. Remember to teach from the heart and experiences of what you light up with and that brings a difference to people around you and your own self. In my classes, I remind the students to not rush into healing someone. The healing starts within us. Before we master anything, we need to try and apply to us to see the reflection. Later, I learned that if I let go of expectations, the results are much sweeter.
Intuition speaks only when we are quiet enough to listen. We all have the muscle called intuition but we don't look after it or use it well. We call it the sixth sense; an addition to our 5 senses. The more you use it the more you are aware of yourself. The more you trust your IG©, the journey to your soul purpose will become much clearer.

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
Just for today, do not be angry.
Just for today, do not worry.
Just for today, be grateful.
Just for today, work hard.
Just for today, be kind to others.
These are the 5 basic reiki principles. If you live by them, you are in alignment to the life purpose serving at your highest good. You don't need to rush practicing them all in one day. Choose one a day or over a week and see how you feel and then move on to the next one. To master these could be a lifetime process; take it as they come in with the essence of what can be implemented in your current situations.
Take time to organise any of the below for the moment:

Set yourself mini goals.
Take a break or a small holiday.
Get moving, dance, and sing along.
Foster your soul and body.
Mind your emotions.
Nourish the inner goddess.
Do what matters to you.
Nurture your spirit, feed your soul.
Create a space.
Restore yourself.
Love yourself.
Build healthy habits and create positive rituals.









7
FIND THE TRIBE

'But none of that really mattered. I had found my tribe. It felt like a family reunion for the family I'd never really known, a homecoming at the place where I was always meant to be but hadn't known how to find.'

— David Levithan
You are truly home only when you find your tribe and this is where you belong. You are meant to be doing this spiritual work but you need not be on your own. Every one of us needs support which you can find in your tribe. This can be different to your family or childhood friends. Once you find and integrate yourself in your right tribe, it becomes your spine. You can be yourself and no mask is required when you are with them. You can carry the work with ease that you meant to be doing and shine the light within you.
How Do You Find Them?
They are everywhere. They could be your current friends, family, colleagues, business partner, from your community, or any other groups you might be associated with. But we need to open ourselves up to finding them and integrating with them. I have seen even the shyest person coming up and opening up like a flower. You feel comfortable and at home to do what you want. Most of us are slightly different when at home, at work, or at college. But home is where the soul is. Your tribe is your soul's home to be able to feel the warmth and connection. You can speak easily and convey messages easily and they can understand you deeply.
The way I found my tribe and connected to them was from the classes I went to for reiki and other different energy workshops. I made new friends like I was meeting old ones. As I was meeting new friends, I noticed my current friends to evolve to the needs of my soul and theirs too. Some departed on the journey as it was the divine timing for both of us to. It does happen often to most of the awakened souls. It is like leaving your school friends to make college friends and leaving college friends to make work friends. Life evolves and so do the people around you. Don't be guilty for parting ways. You have learned the lessons together, now move on to the next lessons. You know you will always be in connection with them deep down.
Sign up to the activities that light you up. Your light is contagious and you will attract the other light workers.

'Begin to see yourself as a soul with a body rather than a body with a soul.'

— Dr Wayne W. Dyer
When everything else fails be ready to form a tribe. We all need to be in safe environment where we can trust, open ourselves up, and progress further. Supporting each other is what we do with our tribes. No matter how many issues I might have had with my family, when it comes to me talking about them to a 3rd person, I always praise them and support them. In the end, they are mine and I choose this tribe for a purpose and a reason. I took a vow at my time of birth to learn these lessons and be a part of them and support them in their lessons. Your tribe need not always be an external one, it could be internal as well. Don't think too much.
To be comfortable with a tribe I had to figure what is comfortable for me and what is not. This was a process of knowing my divine feminine side which is my gut and heart centre speaking to me and me, in turn, responding back.
Snug With Your Clan
Knowing yourself starts with accepting yourself, as mentioned in earlier chapters. This is the priority. At any stage, if you feel you are alone and you can't do this, remember you are not and never were. You've got your IG©. Life of a light worker could be a rollercoaster of fun. When life brings in surprises, we need that reassurance and when you turn to your friends you will get that support and comfort. That is what the empaths are for. They don't judge you. They accept you. They let you cry, scream, get upset, and moan, and hug you and let you be yourself. These are the people who love you and have be there for you at this point of time in your life. You can call them Earth Angels.
You don't need to pretend to be someone else. You can be yourself to be accepted by them. If you notice, they would have called or made contact at the time you needed them most. Either you were lonely, or at the edge of making a major decision. It could be anything and they stood by you at that moment. And when you look back, that moment means everything.
Reading all that is written above, some of you might think that this must only exist in an ideal world and not in the real one. Maybe you think you don't know anyone like that or haven't come across one yet. Don't worry. Just trust in your source and believe and ask for signs and ask your IG© to show you who they are without judging or criticising. You will be surprised to find out who they really are. Be in stillness and relax your body and calm your mind by breathing into the belly and breathing out. Ask the questions and let the images, words, or signs flow in. No pressure. Be relaxed. It is only in the relaxed state that the magic happens.

#EXPERIENCEHEALING TIP:
Just like the universe has got your back, you have got your tribe to support you and fully develop with, as you should in this lifetime. Just ask your IG© if you are ever lost, to show you who they are in every step of your life. The trust in you is the same part where the sun shines.








OPEN UP
If you don't believe in yourself no one else will.
If you are not truthful to yourself no one else will.
If you don't love yourself no one else will.
If you don't see yourself worthy no one else will.
If you don't believe in your dreams no one else will.
Just for today BELIEVE in YOURSELF.
Everyone will believe you.
Everyone will be truthful to you.
Everyone will love you.
Everyone will see worth in you.
Everyone will believe in your dreams.
When everything else fails, the only thing we've got is to laugh and cheer ourselves up. Be your own cheerleader. It is time to open yourself up and be in the journey of your soul. This is the opportunity for you to open up like a flower bud and blossom and spread your fragrance around.
Mind gives the path. Heart shows the path. Inner guide leads you on the path.

'Enlightenment happens quietly, like the blossoming of a flower.'

— Sadhguru
Before we open up to the magic, life would like to share the below prayer. The prayer 'Tvameva' comes from the Pandava Gita and other several ancient sacred Hindu texts. I grew up reciting it and listening to it and would like to spread to you all. It is also called the song of surrender, as the overarching theme of this sacred hymn is complete surrender to the divine. Its verses are widely chanted by those seeking to experience the wisdom said to be contained therein. It is in Sanskrit and below the prayer is the meaning for it.
Tvameva Mata cha Pita Tvameva, Tvameva Bandhu cha Sakha Tvameva, Tvameva Vidya Dravinam Tvameva, Tvameva Sarvam Mama Deva Deva.
Tvameva Mata: You are my Mother, the Supreme One, who nourishes me with Divine Love and graces my life with Self-Respect (the perception of myself as the Soul-self, and not just as a body, mind, intellect, or ego).
Cha Pita Tvameva: And You are my Father, the Supreme Being, who protects me by raising my consciousness and transforming my mind into a receptacle of the Divine; who instils in me the sterling qualities of Divine Consciousness.
Tvameva Bandu cha Sakha Tvameva: You are my True Relative with whom I am eternally related as Atman (Soul-self) with Paramatman (the Supreme Self), and you are my Best Friend, my Eternal Companion, and Dearest Confidant who will never leave me.
Tvameva Vidya: You are the Divine Wisdom, the Essence of everything I know, everything I am learning, and everything I do not know but seek to understand and realise (actualise).
Dravinam Tvameva: You are the Highest Wealth (Laxmi) and the Bestower of all the best things in this life and the next. You are the Source of everything good and the Bestower of all resources we require for our physical sustenance and spiritual enlightenment. You are the Wealth of Wisdom and the Gift of Liberation (Moksha).
Tvameva Sarvam Mama Deva Deva: You are All-in-All; You are Everything to me, you are the core of my being, the Heart of my heart, the Source of my Self, the Soul of my soul, the Ultimate Reality devoid of duality and partiality; Indivisible, Immutable, the Immaculate, the Ultimate Knower and the Absolute Perfect Incomparable Supreme Being.
Om Tat Sat







FOLLOW ME
If you are looking for any more guidance on this path, you can reach out to me with unanswered questions through Experiencehealing.ie.
Experience Healing is my website where I share my learnings in this journey, including tools to help meet ourselves with our own inner guidance and to understand who we are, what our mission is, what our purpose is, and who we truly are.
If you have used other tools that may have helped you in this awakening process, please share with us at #ExperienceHealing Tip.
FOLLOW Srimanju Katragadda experiencehealing.ie; connecttoyourinnerguide.com, akashic.ie; kidsangelcards.com
FACEBOOK @Experiencehealing
TWITTER @exphealingreiki
INSTAGRAM @srimanjuexphealing
PINTEREST pinterest.com/katragaddamanju
WORDPRESS BLOG experiencehealingjourney. wordpress.com







ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

Maatru devo bhava pitru devo bhava aachaarya devo bhava atithi devo bhava.

— Taittiriya Upanishad
'Be one for whom the Mother is God, be one for whom the Father is God, be one for whom the Teacher is God, be one for whom the Guest is God.'
Thank you Amma and Daddy for everything you have given me and raising me the way I am. With your hard work, courage, and dedication, I wouldn't have been the same. I am proud to be your daughter.
To my wonderful spiritual children—Ishitha and Taanvi—who put me on this path and leading me wonderfully and teaching me simple things in life. To my husband, Bharath. You show me, every day, what love really is. You are my soul mate, my partner in crime, and my best friend. Thank you for always being there for me and listening to me and allowing me to grow into who I am today. Thank you for trusting me and standing by me in hard times.
Without you guys, my clients, readers, and students, I would never have had Experience Healing. Thank you for allowing me into your lives. You have lifted me up. You have inspired me to keep going. The life I am in since 2009 is not what I had ever planned. I feel blessed. I am grateful. And I owe it all to you. Each one of you has come across and taught me a lesson or answered my prayers. I am here writing this book only because of you. Experience Healing has changed my life and I am eternally grateful to be able to connect with you all though this channel. Thank you for all your support via social media, workshops, treatments, and speaker events.
Lastly, my sincere thanks to the amazing Hay House team who has chosen me to be a part of the Hay House family.



