















CONVERSATION CASANOVA MASTERY 2.048 Conversation Techniques, Tactics and Mindsets to Start Conversations, Text like a Texting Master, and Flirt with Women like a Man who FUCKS







CORY SMITH 







INTRODUCTIONDID YOU EVER SEE A BEAUTIFUL WOMAN, ONLY A FEW FEET AWAY, BUT YOU WERE TOO SCARED TO SAY OR DO ANYTHING?A decade ago, that was me! I felt TRAPPED like a thirsty man in a desert surrounded by water he can't drink. There were women all around me, but I didn't know what to do to start an interaction, and sustain it long enough to seduce her. IT WAS TORTURE to see a sexy, young woman only 6 feet away, but NOT KNOW WHAT TO SAY TO HER TO START THINGS OFF.It took years of painful, heart-breaking trial and error to crack the code, but when I did figure it out then the sex was as abundant as sand on a beach. WHEN I COULD FINALLY GET RESULTS IN THE FIELD CONSISTENTLY, IT MADE ALL OF THE YEARS OF EXCRUCIATING PAIN WORTH IT.He who has game-related-skill-sets will find beautiful women as abundant and accessible as OXYGEN, but he who lacks game skills will ponder bullshit thoughts such as: "all the beautiful women are taken","no woman will suck my dick","what's the point of trying if I'll fail anyways", and"all hope is lost. I am completely fucked."
     The lazy man always has a convenient "perfectly logical" excuse ready to justify his lethargic, cowardice behaviors. He uses these rationalizations to avoid feeling guilty for behaving like a pussy.     
CREATE A POSITIVE FEEDBACK LOOP.When you have success in the field, motivational and inspirational thoughts find you. You become invigorated by your results and find yourself hitting the field more often. You start looking forward to interacting with women. It becomes a positive feedback loop that gets stronger with time. Success breeds MORE SUCCESS. The rich get richer and the sexy get sexier.However, when you have repeated failures in the field, your confidence and self-esteem levels take a hit. This leads to even less results and generates a vicious negative cycle that can take someone into the depths of depression. When one has repeated failure, he starts to expect failure - creating a self-fulling prophecy. If this is you, you must SNAP OUT OF IT NOW!
     A woman doesn't give a fuck about your excuses, sob story, lack of a strong male role-model, abusive childhood or victimhood. She cares about the bottom line: did you emerge as a WINNER in the game of life? Can she trust you to be a powerful leader?     
HE WHO DWELLS IN THE PAST, MISSES OUT ON OPPORTUNITIES IN THE PRESENT.LISTEN TO ME, SON. I don't care what your past is. I don't care how many mistakes you have made. I don't care how much of a "loser" you think you are.THE PAST IS DEAD.And from the ashes, arises a NEW YOU. This moment right now is a NEW CHAPTER IN YOUR LIFE. Let go of the past, and start over RIGHT NOW.
     Every mistake is an opportunity to learn something new. Everyone makes mistakes. The difference between those who are successful and those who are not: is the ability to quickly gain the lessons from the experiences and move on forward - without a loss of intensity of purpose.     
THE FIVE FUNDAMENTALS OF GAMEFUNDAMENTAL I.The number one secret is to GIVE ZERO FUCKS WHAT ANYONE THINKS - just like a dangerous psychopath would. FUCK what society thinks.FUCK what people will think of you.FUCK being a sheep conforming to the popular culture that the masses are enslaved to.FUCK what her opinion is.THE ONLY THING THAT MATTERS IS WHAT YOU THINK. It is the ability to make a decision and act upon it - regardless of external approval or disapproval - that will take you far in life.99% of men are sheep following other sheep. Be the wolf. A wolf does not care about the opinion of sheep; he eats sheep for breakfast. Don't live like a prey animal; embrace the seductive, primal predator within. Be highly aggressive in going after what you want in life and FUCK anyone who disapproves.
 FUNDAMENTAL II.Accept that you might feel intense anxiety and APPROACH ANYWAYS.
Don't let emotions control and dictate your destiny. HARNESS THE FORCE OF YOUR WILL POWER.Just because you don't feel like approaching a beautiful woman, doesn't mean you should give into those emotions. Just because every ounce of your being is telling you to not approach, doesn't mean you should give into those feelings.Develop the self-control to do that which you have logically, consciously decided is the best course of action for you - regardless of how you feel like in the moment and despite any possible intense emotional resistance.
 FUNDAMENTAL III.DEVELOP THE ABILITY TO CREATE A GOAL FOR YOURSELF AND STICK WITH IT NO MATTER WHAT. IF YOUR GOAL IS TO DO AT LEAST ONE APPROACH FOR THE DAY THEN YOU HAVE TO IMPLEMENT THAT - NO MATTER THE EMOTIONAL OR PSYCHOLOGICAL RESISTANCE.What's the difference between people that are successful in the game of life and soy boys that suck at it? It is the ability to set clear long term, short term and daily goals; then, execute these goals with FULL FORCE - regardless of any anxiety or fear that they may feel along the way.Goals allow the aspiring master seducer to stay focused on what matters most in a chaotic, distracting world filled to the brim with noise.
 FUNDAMENTAL IVDOMINATE EVERYTHING THAT YOU DO.Meeting women during the daytime is a medium to help you develop the character and habits of a successful, high-status MAN WHO FUCKS and then transfer those same skills to other fields such as business, networking, fitness and dominating life in general.If you don't even have the balls to approach a beautiful woman then what does that say about the size of your balls, and you ability to approach a successful business man at a networking event to pitch your mutually beneficial/lucrative business idea?DON'T YOU GET IT!?! HOW YOU HANDLE YOURSELF IN THE SEDUCTION FIELD, REVEALS HOW YOU HANDLE EVERYTHING.If you are a pussy soy boy in the field, who interacts with women with evasive eye-contact,downward eye-contact,stuttering,fidgeting,touching of the face due to nervousness,a high-pitched whiney voice,rushing your words without any pauses,folded arms or arms over crotch (defensive body-language),filler-words,incoherent rambling,awkward hesitation and perpetual procrastination,general intense anxiety around women,incel-level lack of situational awareness and socially inept calibration,hateful bitterness and emotional baggage, orlacking the KILLER INSTINCT TO CLOSE,then you are most likely that kind of guy in the business realm. By developing yourself in the seduction game, you indirectly improve yourself in the business game and the game of life in general.The same character traits, correlated set of skills, and conversation techniques that make one successful with women for sexual purposes ALSO make one successful with men for networking/business purposes. In addition, when you have hot girls around you: wealthy men are more inclined to hit you up for business related discussions because they perceive these hot girls as "evidence" that you are a winner, and winners like to associate with other winners.YES, this is a book about conversation skills, but how you learn these skills serve as a model for how you learn new skills, in general. Learn how to learn. The most powerful ability a man can develop is the ability to learn new skills FAST.Further, how you handle yourself in socially and sexually charged situations has implications far beyond just pickup and if you can stick your long stick into a living hole. Fundamental game skills (such as approaching, conversation, flirting, closing),bold charisma,enticing charm,fierce courage,humble patience,passion for a meaningful purpose in life,being a visionary,posessing self-control,emotional state regulation skills (EQ),self-intitiave and being proactive (not reactive),dominant leadership,being a calculated risk-taker and adventurer,will get you laid with women, but more importantly will get you far in life.GAME SKILLS aren't just about getting laid. They are about building your life. Women should be a supplement to your already amazing life - not the purpose of life itself.
 FUNAMENTAL VPickup artists are able to walk up to anyone, at anyplace, at anytime and strike up a conversation. They are very good at quickly forming social connections. This is a valuable ability to have that has multiple benefits including sex, money, and power.And starting now: embrace the identity of being a pickup artist. Verbalize these words:"I am a man who takes what he wants out of life. If I see a twenty dollar bill on the sidewalk, I'll pick it up because I TAKE WHAT I WANT. If I see a beautiful woman, or anyone that I want to be more intimate with, then I'll approach and strike up a conversation because I TAKE WHAT I WANT. I am a pickup artist!"
 WHY LEARN CONVERSATION SKILLS?Attraction is not a choice. Attempting to logically negotiate desire is silly. Sexual attraction is merely a primal response to certain external stimulus such as: dominance,leadership,powerful body-language,impeccable high status style and elegant fashion,leading (display of leadership),strong frame (display of leadership),flashing elite status,flashing wealth,vibing,touching,emotional spiking,arousing (a horny woman will lose control),"I am the prize to be won" frame,social proofing,sparking jealousy, andgeneral escalation.In between these tactics is a glue that keeps the interaction alive. Without this glue, the mutual engagement will die and there will be no "time" to implement the aforementioned seduction-tactics.Conversation is the glue that keeps interactions together. It is what fills the space between the tactics. Conversation is the ultimate meta-skill that makes everything else in the human mating ritual possible. It's what keeps her around, so that you can play your game.In contrast, if the conversation dies then the interaction dies. So it's important to be emotionally engaging enough in conversation to keep women hooked in to interacting with you, and thus "buying you time" to win over mind, heart, and physically escalate on her body. Hence, conversation skills are imperative to learn.Escalation happens through different mediums: Logistics,Physicality,Mental, andEmotional.These same conversation skills will be useful to help one: network with influential millionaires,to create mutually beneficial friendships with men (that have access to things that you don't, or are experts in fields that you are not knowledgeable in),keep you entertained every time you leave your home and encounter people along your commute, or they can be used tocreate ENDLESS sexual opportunities with very young women (18+) despite the fact that you are a guy in your 30-50s+.They create a foundation for a successful life. Pickup related skill sets are transferable skills that give will you benefits that exceed merely sticking your penis into a woman's lubricated hole for the purpose of temporal pleasure. Women are inspiration for you to be the best version of yourself, and build your empire.CONVERSATION SKILLS ARE A MAJOR PART OF THE PUZZLE WHEN DEALING WITH WOMEN.You can be a master approacher, but if you suck at conversation skills, then good luck, because approaching her is just step 1. Step 2 is being able to give emotional value and carry a conversation which sustains the interaction long enough to convey high status (and eventually getting her PSYCHOLOGICALLY HOOKED to being with you).You can approach a woman and have an amazing opening line, but if you don't follow that up with further observations and conversation then the interaction will most likely DIE RIGHT THERE on the spot. Upon approaching, BRING THE FUCKING VALUE.THE DARK SIDE OF CONVERSATIONKeep in mind that conversation is not a means unto itself, but rather a medium that buys you time in the interaction to develop a connection on a physical end emotional level. The goal is NOT to have endless conversations that lead to nowhere; THE GOAL IS TO FUCK. THE GOAL IS TO CREATE A LONG-TERM SEXUAL RELATIONSHIP.You don't want to be: the endless texting penpal,the perpetual "do-nothing" conversation-guy,the eager-to-please, dancing-monkey, juggling-try-hard clown,but rather A GUY WHO FUCKS WOMEN IN THE PUSSY. VISUALIZE SUCCESS.She could be down to fuck right now, but you're too busy having a nice guy conversation (trying to spark more perpetual attraction) to notice and capitalize on the sexual opportunity. Have conversations that spark attraction and foster a genuine connection, but when it comes time to close, fucking close. It's counter-productive to always be in "elevator pitch mode". Sharpen your KILLER INSTINCT. Always be closing.
HOW TO USE THIS BOOKWhen developing your conversation skills, you want to aim for CONSCIOUS practice - not mindless practice. Focus on developing at least one of the tactics mentioned in this book every time you practice your skills on a woman. By small chunking your learning, you ensure that you are not overwhelmed.I recommend printing out this book and reading through it with a highlighter. Highlight the sentences that really resonate with you. Then verbalize out-loud those collection of highlights every day for the next 30 days; this will assist you in internalizing the mindsets of a sexy conversationalist. When you have the mindsets down (internalized into your bloodstream), the behaviors will flow effortlessly. - Getting out of the house,- going to a place where there are women,- approaching some cute ones,- saying an opener to break the ice,- starting up a conversation,- flirting to create a man-to-woman frame,- throwing in field-tested teasing lines,- escalating the vibe,is just the first phase of the mating dance but it's where most guys are stuck at.This book will discuss 48 conversation techniques and mindsets to ensure that you always have something to say, and you will never again be in the situation where you see a pretty girl but you can't approach her because you are lost for words.LETS GET STARTED RIGHT NOW MOTHERFUCKING, MOTHERFUCKER. IT'S ABOUT TIME YOU RADICALLY CHANGED YOUR LIFE FOR THE POSITIVE.Yours truly, Cory Smith







 







HOW TO NEVER RUN OUT OF THINGS TO SAY, THE DEFINITIVE ULTIMATE GUIDE
     "Men are seduced by what they see; women are seduced by what they hear." - Russian Proverb     
In this chapter, I will teach you how to NEVER run out of things to say in social and sexual situations; this is also known as, HAVING A GOLDEN MOUTH PIECE. Be willing to review the key points in this particular chapter multiple times (even once a week) for the concepts to really sink in. Verbal repetition is the key to internalization, and internalization is the key to lifestyle integration. Now let's MAKE IT RAIN VAGINA.If you find that you have difficulty keeping a conversation going then it's because of: - social inhibitions,- nervousness,- insecurities, and- filtering yourself.You don't run out of things to say with your close friends because you are FEARLESS and SPEAK YOUR MIND FREELY.Have you noticed then when you are with your bros then you always have something to say? When you are with these close friends, you don't panic, or think "Oh my gosh, I don't know what to say next! I AM FUCKED." The right things to say just come to you. Why is that? It is because...Always having something to say comes from a being in a resourceful emotional state.Repeat.Always having something to say comes from a being in a resourceful emotional state.Again!Always having something to say comes from a being in a resourceful emotional state.This "talkative state" is a certain state of mind that is conductive to having something to talk about. It is "BEING IN THE ZONE". When you are in this "FLOW STATE", you are ON-POINT and the right things to say come to you naturally.Good game comes from learning how to leave non-resourceful emotional states (such as anxiety, nervousness, fearfulness, panic, stress, tension, being overly self-conscious, being self-filtering and self-judgmental), and...ENTER ON COMMAND into a resourceful emotional state (100% in control of yourself, calm as an unmoving mountain, fearless like a lion, empowered, energized, and inspired).
When you are with your male friends, you are in a relaxed empowered emotional state. Apply the same to women. Assume familiarity. Treat her as if you've known her your entire life. The added benefit of this is that by assuming rapport, you create rapport. This is how women come to feel "it's as if I have known him forever."When you treat a woman as if you've known her for years, then it will naturally make you feel relaxed enough to speak your mind freely. When you are in this relaxed flow-state, you will always have something to say to keep the conversation going, and the interaction alive. Women feel what you feel; when you're relaxed and comfortable talking to her, she will mirror that contagious emotional state and behavioral patterns.Knowing what to say is based on having the right emotional state.In contrast, being in a nervous state of mind fucks guys up because anxiety shuts down the brain.
Being nervous leads to the mind going blank, and lacking the ability to come up with interesting/emotionally-engaging things to say on the spot.Being fearless and in a "talkative state" puts someone into THE ZONE where the right things to say naturally come up. Strong conversation game comes from being able to put yourself into this talkative, positively charged state of mind.The following behavioral sequence can help put someone into that resourceful emotional state of FEARLESSNESS and having ENDLESS THINGS TO SAY TO WOMEN. You can implement this brief ten minute behavioral "ritual" prior to going out to meet women.While I point out a behavioral sequence that has helped me personally (which incorporates a combination of several techniques at once), I recommend that you tailor (and experiment with) your own behavioral sequence based on empirical results gained in the field. Setting a timer for ten minutes1,listening to motivating instrumental rock music: https://www.youtube.com/results?search_query=rock+instrumental2screaming the affirmations "I AM THE DANGER!! I AM THE CHAOS!!! I DON'T GIVE A FUCK WHAT ANYONE THINKS. I AM FEARLESS."verbalizing the affirmation "I take action every day to become competent in a field that I value. I will have a good time and every approach is a WIN - regardless of the specific results."doing push-ups and/or hitting a punching bag,utilizing affirmations in the field,utilizing self-suggestions in the field,singing a tune, and then when leaving one's homedoing at least three simple warmup approaches.3
The big secret to starting a conversation with a woman is to simply assume you already are in one, and act accordingly. When your frame (perception of reality) is strong then women will just accept it. In any interaction, the person who has more conviction in his perception of reality will create the mutually acknowledged frame. He who controls the frame, controls the game.No wonder it's difficult to find things to talk about with women if: you're operating from an anxious place (instead of using mindfulness and deep breathing relaxation techniques),stuck in your head over-analyzing the situation,have unrealistically high standards of what is acceptable to say, andTRAPPED in hesitation, bullshit excuses, and fear.Every time you give into fear and illusions, they develop a stronger grasp over you. Every time you feed limiting beliefs with actions, they limit you even more. Every time you don't approach out of the fear of rejection, your balls shrink. If you want to always have something to say and never run out of things to talk about: operate from a relaxed state of mind,be fully attuned to what is happening in the situation at the moment,talk about that which personally excites you,let go of self-censorship,destroy the self-filter,speak your mind freely,express yourself fully,shine your personality without fear of being judged,approach immediately as soon as you see the girl, anddon't be afraid of "what I have to say isn't good enough".Write this down: nothing kills conversations more than social inhibitions! He who hesitates, masterbates.He who doesn't give a fuck, fucks.To fuck pussy, don't be a pussy.Sexual fortune favors the bold.Sexual opportunities are abundant. THE SIX FUNDAMENTAL MINDSETS TO HAVING THE GOLDEN MOUTH PIECEI.OVER-ANALYSIS AND OVER-THINKING KILLS CONVERSATIONS. BE MINDFUL.Be in the present moment and pay attention to what is happening right in front of you - the reality that is mutually shared between you and her. Pay attention to what she is saying, to who she is, what she is doing, and to the situation in front of you. It's hard to have a conversation with someone who is in their own world STUCK in their head paying attention to OTHER IRRELEVANT THINGS.It can be difficult to have things to say if you are too busy: analyzing game dynamics ("does she like me? am I dressed properly? what if I get rejected?"), orthinking too much about things that are NOT relevant ("what am I eating for lunch later? what time is my doctor's appointment again? what are other people thinking about me talking to her?").What kills conversations? Being stuck in your head, overanalyzing and overthinking the situation - instead of entering an emotional state of free, uninhibited, confident full expression. Instead of spending time "on a different planet" in your head, bring yourself to the here and now.EMPTY YOUR MIND OF ALL THOUGHTS and FOCUS ON WHAT IS GOING ON IN THE CURRENT SITUATION. Focus on what is happening in front of you and thoughts will naturally come to you. When the thoughts come to you, speak them freely.II.KILL THE OVERLY SENSITIVE SUPER-EGO. USE FREE ASSOCIATION.When a thought POPS into your mind, don't stop yourself by thinking "is this appropriate to say?" Don't even ask that question. JUST FUCKING SAY IT!One of the easiest ways to start talking to everyone and not run out of things to say is to just speak out your immediate thoughts without any filter or personal censor. Say whatever POPS into your mind - even if it seems random or somewhat inappropriate.Let go of needing to always say the perfect thing and simply think out-loud!You can say almost anything; as long as you have the confidence and enthusiasm behind it then it will work.III.UTILIZE PASSIONIf you're running out of things to say then you're probably trying to talk to her about things that you don't care about instead of focusing on your greatest passions in life. When you talk about what matters deeply to you, you'll never run out of content. In fact, you *almost* won't be able to stop talking!Talking about what you're passionate about TURNS WOMEN ON because they feed on that enjoyable energy, and get a spike of adrenaline for being "high on life". Successful seducers make women feel happy through this method.IV.SELL CONVERSATIONAL VALUE TO THOSE WHO ARE BUYING THAT WHICH YOU ARE SELLING.Take this to a higher level by becoming highly knowledgable and skillful in the subject that you are passionate about. Assuming that this is a field that women find intriguing and you meet those type of women by going to a social club/organization (such as yoga, spirituality, salsa dancing) that specializes in that field, then you will have hours upon hours of content when teaching a woman the path to mastery that you took.Example: if you are passionate about career development, then you are more likely to meet women who are interested in hearing what you have to say about that subject matter in a college social event than in the street. If you are passionate about spirituality, then hitting up drunk eighteen year old teenagers at 2am at a sorority/fraternity mix event is less than an optimal mating strategy.V.LISTEN.Listen to what she says; then use that information as fodder for what you will say next. The key is to pay attention that topics that she is most passionate about. Making your remarks relevant to topics that she sincerely cares about and that will keep the conversation going for miles.VI.SPEAK YOUR THOUGHTS OUTLOUD.When you listen attentively to what a woman says, you'll experience certain impulsive thoughts in response to what she has said. The key is to speak these thoughts out-loud verbalized with confidence when they occur.SUMMARY OF HOW TO NEVER RUN OUT OF THINGS TO SAY TO WOMEN: Enter a resourceful emotional state. Achieve this through emotional regulation techniques (such as affirmations).I. Be mindful. Focus on what is relevant.II. Kill the inner-critical. Use free association.III. Utilize passion. Talk about what you enjoy.IV. Listen. Use what she says to assist you.V. Think out-loud. Ride emotional waves.VI. Meet the type of women (in a location where this type of women hangs out) that would be interested in hearing what you have to say about subjects that you are knowledgable and passionate in. You'll fuck her mind and then fuck her body. When you are in bed, FUCK HER HARD. HOLD NOTHING BACK. In a similar manner, when in conversation with a woman, reveal the FULL FORCE OF YOUR PERSONALITY. Enter interactions with fierce boldness, and this alone will captivate women. BULLETPOINTS:5 Mindsets to not run out of things to say: - free association,- say whatever POPS into your mind,- talk about what you're PASSIONATE about,- talk about what you have a lot of KNOWLEDGE in,- comment about the situation, conversation, her, what she is saying, or the people around you (people watching),- when she talks, listen attentively and when she finishes then share your opinion on it without any social inhibitions. Don't be afraid to disagree with her perspective; in fact, this alone can spark an interesting conversation.Basic Conversation Level 1 Formula: -> STEP 1: make an observation, provoking statement or ask a question.-> STEP 2: listen to her response, where she reveals personal information about herself.-> STEP 3: self-disclose personal information about yourself that is relatable to what she has just said, and is relatable to subjects that she values.-> STEP 4: repeat.Basic Conversation Level 2 Formula: 1. Listen.2. Identify her emotional state and understand what is being said.3. Paraphrase what said in your own words; reveal empathy to her emotions.4. Add insight.5. Relate something from your own life that is relevant to what was just discussed.What to talk about after the opener: 1. Observation about her,2. Commentary about the situation (aka mutually shared reality),3. Commentary about the conversation (aka going meta),4. Something "crazy" that just happened to you that you can't wait to share with someone PRACTICE MAKES BETTER. 5 EXERCISES TO IMPROVE YOUR ABILITY TO NEVER RUN OUT OF THINGS TO SAY.EXERCIZE #1Take a dictionary and a camera. Open up to a random page and with your eyes closed choose a random word. Record yourself speaking about that subject for 5 minutes straight. The goal is to be able to prove to yourself that you can talk about anything for as long as you want to because the ability to have a conversation is based on a state of mind and a state of emotions. The brain wants proof - not promises.EXERCIZE #2Imagine spotting a beautiful woman waiting for the bus - as you are walking home from work. Imagine saying something to that woman to strike up a conversation; then think to yourself "how would she respond? How would I respond to her response?" Then "How would she respond to my response of her response?" And so on. This is similar to playing chess against yourself. The goal is to slow things down enough to understand the general dynamics of conversation, and realize that any given point you have multiple moves to play (with some moves being more conducive to the probability of sexual success than others) - rather than a linear path.EXERCIZE #3Make a list of topics that you are enjoy talking about, and have a lot of knowledge in. You can get addicted to a certain kind of misery. That is misery of the excuse of "not knowing what to say to women", so that you would have the ability to sidestep the potential pain of rejection, and having your ego attacked by the opinion of random female strangers. When you accept the possibility of rejection then women lose their power over you.EXERCIZE #4Make a list of at LEAST 3 affirmations to repeat every morning. Here are some really powerful ones to choose from: "I will speak my mind freely with women.""When I am with women, I will express my opinions and share my thoughts openly with extreme confidence.""When it comes to interacting with others, I will say WHATEVER THE FUCK I FEEL LIKE SAYING. What I have to say is valuable just because it came from me.""I have lots of things to talk about because the world is an interesting and exciting place. There is NO FUCKING LIMIT to how much there is to talk about.""I don't give a fuck if people disagree with my perceptions. I am an expander of consciousness and gain a lot just by talking about things that are personally meaningful to me.""I don't give a fuck what people think!""Meeting new people is FUN and engaging in conversations has a lot of personal benefits to me!! I can gain insights about female psychology, have a good time, talk about what I love, and sharpen my social/seduction skills all at the same time! If someone doesn't like what I am doing, FUCK THEM. I DON'T GIVE A FUCK BECAUSE I AM TOO BUSY HAVING FUN!!!"EXERCIZE #5Set a specific time during the day when you call up some of your contacts - just to practice your conversation skills, strengthen the connections in your rotation, and follow up on potential leads. For instance this could be from 10:30PM to 11:00PM. Just call people up and schmooze. Afterwards, make notes of valuable insights that you have learned about how to interact with women successfully (also known as writing a Field Report). There is always a higher level of knowledge and skill in game. Don't settle for less just because you're the smoothest lion in your social circle. KEEP YOUR SKILLS SHARP. SEDUCTIVE POWERS HAVE BEEN WITHIN YOU THIS ENTIRE TIME. YOU JUST HAVE TO LEARN TO TAP INTO THEM.NATURAL CONVERSATION BEATS HAVING EIGHT HOURS OF MEMORIZED LINES:While have some memorized lines in your pocket is certainly useful for: (1) starting conversations with beautiful women,(2) case study examples to model after,(3) can be good "training wheels, and(4) having something to say just in case the mind draws on a blank,But they should not be relied upon. Depending on having memorized lines leads to being a man with a metaphorical crutch who can't operate without the constant need of more lines.You need to be a seducer who can generate lines from within, rather than depending on an external source to constantly feed you "what exactly to say".
Give a man a fish of 100 pickup lines and he will always come back to you to buy more products because of his dependency and lack of confidence. Teach a man how to do fishing and he will operate independently.It's imperative to learn how to always have something to say to a woman - even if you ran out of lines, or don't have memorized lines prepared. Nothing beats spontaneous natural authentic conversation that happens in the moment. Women have an innate bullshit-senser, and can intuitively tell if a man is being REAL with them and communicating authentically OR if he is faking a personality and delivering memorized conversation scripts.A real connection with a woman should be based on being the best version of YOU - rather than being an alternative radically different personality that you mimic. By memorizing lines that have worked for someone else, you risk: being incongruent (something that an 22 year old college frat boy - writing field reports on the web - would say would not make a sense for a 35 year old lawyer to say; a woman's "I am being deceived" internal alarms will go off),creating something unattainable in the long-term (sooner or later, you'll run out of memorized pickup lines to use with the particular woman who you are interested in),sounding scripted (rather than creating an authentic experience for you and the woman you are interested in), andbe overly concerned with "did I say the right thing that matches the script?" (instead of focusing on having a good time and sharing enjoyable experiences with women; if meeting women is a psychologically painful experience then you won't be that motivated to go out).The bottom line is this: an aspiring seducer must learn how to charm women with his own words that come from within naturally - without needing to constantly refer to his collection of conversational routines. It is better to be one who can create lines - rather than one who needs others to tach him which lines to say. When you have the right mindsets, the correct attraction-sparking things to say will come naturally to you.
WOMEN
WANT
TO
BE
FUCKED - JUST
NOT
BY
SHY
LOSERS.
1 Some men may need even an hour of mental conditioning to get into the right state of mind conducive to meeting and interacting with women. When you are in the right state ("feeling fucking awesome!") and have State Control skills then you'll find results improve radically.2 Avoid songs that contain distracting lyrics - especially ones that promote oneitis (the pedestalization of women).3 It is important to not degrade the importance and necessity of warming up. Even a veteran seducer who has thousands of approaches can feel approach anxiety and could benefit tremendously from doing a few simple short interactions with strangers as he goes about his day - to sustain macro momentum and get himself quickly into THE ZONE. Whoever says "I don't need to warmup because I'm already an expert" is either lazy, in denial, or a fucking idiot. That being said, never let "I am not in state" be an excuse for not approaching a beautiful woman or avoiding interactions entirely. In conclusion: warming up is one of the fastest ways to get into an empowered emotional state (also known as "The Indifference Threshold"). For those who want to learn more about the subject of quickly entering emotional states, I recommend researching the subject of anchoring in NLP.







 







LAW #1: BE EMOTIONALLY RELEVANT.LAW #1: WOMEN ARE EMOTIONAL CREATURES. BE EMOTIONALLY RELEVANT.TECHNIQUE #1: FIND SOMETHING THAT SHE IS PASSIONATE ABOUT AND THAT YOU'RE PASSIONATE ABOUT; THEN TALK ABOUT THAT! LOOK FOR TOPICS OF MUTUAL INTEREST AND UTILIZE THEM AS "BAIT" FOR CONVERSATION.Ask yourself three questions: -> What does she like to talk about?-> What do you like to talk about?-> Where do these overlap?Then share insights about her favorite subjects that you actually give a fuck about. BOOM!!THIS WORKS LIKE MAGIC. For example: women LOVE talking about relationships. If you want to turn a boring conversation around, bring up the subject of relationship dynamics and request her opinion on a hot-button issue in the subject. It is important to talk about her areas of interest, and it preferable for her areas of interest to overlap your areas of interest.THE
SWEET
SPOT IS WHEN YOU FIND A SUBJECT MATTER OF MUTUAL INTEREST THAT CAN BE MILKED FOR CONVERSATION TO SUSTAIN THE INTERACTION AND BUY YOU TIME TO PHYSICALLY ESCALATE ON HER BODY.WHEN YOU TALK about what you genuinely care about, you will feel a visceral motivating pull to keep talking. When you talk about what that particular woman enjoys, she will inspire you to keep talking by giving you positive body-language and providing juicy pieces of information for you to work with.LAW #1Be emotionally relevant by speaking about a subject matter that a woman genuinely cares about.LAW #1 CLAUSE 1Find a way to relate that to a subject that you genuinely care about, so that your words will come from your heart and a place of effortlessly expressing passions (and self-amusement) - not from a place of being try-hard. 6 CHICK CRACK subjects of conversation: - spirit animal,- astrology,- cold reading psychology,- her ambitions, values, and passions,- relationship dynamics,- the current news,AN EXAMPLE OF A CONVERSATION SUBJECT THAT WOMEN LOVE:At the risk of being slightly repetitive, I will mention this concept now (despite it being mentioned again later in the book) because is has relevancy to LAW#1. Often it is useful to hear the same concept being repeated from a different angle (for the sake of internalization purposes).A WOMAN'S favorite subject in the entire universe is..... (you guessed it).... Herself!
She cares more about herself than anyone and anything in the world. Don't be fooled by a woman's altruistic appearances; her primary agenda is always to serve her own unconscious or conscious biological interests because she worships the god that is her name.THIS IS why stacking non-judgmental observations and insights about who she is will keep her hooked unto your every word. If you only learn one thing from this book then let this be the one thing that you learn: tell women insights that you have noticed about them and they will love you for it.THE POSITIVITY PRINCIPLEDon't share these insights in a condescending/judgmental, harsh way because this may discourage women from sharing openly about their lives. She might be reticent when speaking IF it frequently leads to her being attacked in an analytical manner. As a general rule when dealing with women, being positive and enthusiastic about life is sexier than focusing on the negative and complaining. Contrary to the behavior of certain red pill gurus, constantly complaining about how shit women are and how life "sucks because it's so unfair", does NOT lead to a healthy perspective on existence and a feel-good vibe.DISCLAIMER: While the vast majority of women greatly appreciate cold-reads, there are anomalies of certain women that don't appreciate it. A smart seducer starts with the same cookie-cutter strategy to every woman that he meets, but with time creates a more tailored mating strategy that is specifically designed and refined (on the spot) to meet the emotional needs of the woman he is dealing with that is based on the latest information in the field (such as her body-language reactions to his micro-moves and other clues that she leaves about the blueprint to seducing her). Hence, to an extent he is always in calibration-mode and "meeting her where she is at" - while simultaneously drawing her into his world and escalating the interaction.HOW TO CREATE a Conversational Connection Figure out what her favorite topics of conversation are [aka Elicit Values].Learn a lot of information about these subjects.Speak passionately about them.Use extremely powerful and dominant body-language.BOOM! She will hold on and cling to every word that you say.HOW TO LEARN WHAT SUBJECTS OF CONVERSATION WOMEN ARE INTERESTED IN:When you notice that she brings a subject up on her own then take mental note of this. This is an indicator that it's a conversational topic that she is passionate about. If you notice that her eyes light up and she becomes animated as soon as a specific subject of conversation is brought up then take note of that too! Women constantly leave clues on how they desire to be seduced. Ignore what she says "she wants", and look at what she behaviorally responds to (in terms of her actions, body-language, and micro-expressions).CONVERSATION IS NOT a blind man's game; to succeed pay attention to the ongoing dynamic between you and her, and tailor your strategies based on the current social feedback you are getting.MAKE a list of topics that you have a lot of knowledge in, you are passionate about, enjoy talking about, and what women will generally find interesting.
When you are in a conversation bring these subjects into the conversation. For example if you care about travel then no matter what she says then you can bring it up with a simple "That reminds me of the time I was in Florida, [...]".A SMOOTH TRANSITION depends on relating what she just said to what you have just said; albeit, you don't always need to have a smooth transition. You can just can bring up a random subject and as long as you have the confidence and a strong frame, it will work too. General rule of thumb: with a strong frame, you can get away with almost anything.WHAT YOU DON'T WANT to do is to talk about subjects that women don't find interesting. If upon talking about a particular subject, you see that a woman is expressing disinterested body-language then that's a sign that you should switch the subject. In contrast, if you see a woman's eyes light up (and emotional state spike) as soon as you mention a particular topic or buzzword, then that's your cue that this subject is worth talking about with her. Make a mental note in your mind to learn more about that subject, so that the next you see her: you'll be able to better engage.THE OPTIMAL PATH is when you are interested in the same subject as she is interested in. Then when you share enthusiastic insights about that subject, then you create a mutually beneficial and mutually enjoyable experience that is shared between the both of you.LAW #1 CLAUSE 2Be willing to learn about subject matters that women find highly interesting, and to become competent in areas that women really appreciate. It is preferable for these to be based on the type of woman that you are interested in.AT THE SAME TIME, don't lose your identity in the seduction game; draw women into your own world by flashing elite status, having a fiery purpose, and having your own personally meaningful hobbies that you genuinely care about and are a master of.ONE OF THE girlfriends that I had in college was obsessed about being a vegetarian, PETA, anime, fitness, and (ironically) video-games. I recall knowing close to nothing about most of these subjects and researching them by watching documentaries and reading articles on the web, so that I would be able to engage in conversation with my own unique perspective on these "hot topics" that she adored. While I did this in my formative years, I would not necessarily recommend this mating strategy unless you are already in a sexual relationship with the woman (or you are trying to break into a particular niche of women who ascribe to a certain micro culture) because researching a subject can be time consuming.FURTHER, it is preferable for a woman to be sucked into your world more than you are sucked into her world. Focus on her becoming interested in your favorite subjects of conversation MORE than you becoming interested in what she is interested in. This is simply more time efficient. Further, it allows you to play the sexy role of an authority figure who guides her path (as a salsa dance instructor, college "tutor", or even a spiritual leader in some religious niches) rather than a low status follower of her world. Don't lose your personal identity in pursuit of sexual access to a specific woman, but be willing to recreate yourself and become the best version of yourself for the sake of achieving your life purpose.A WOMAN IS ATTRACTED to a man of higher social status than her. Create this perception of status by teaching her new things about life. After all, a teacher is of higher social status than his student. This is more effective to do if she gets sucked into your world, and into subjects that you are a master of - rather than vice-versa.WOMEN FUCK UP - NOT DOWN. Women fuck men that are leaders - not followers. You want to constantly be leading her physically, mentally and logistically. By playing the role of a leader in the dynamic between you and her, attraction levels will spike. Even a "feminist" woman, wants to be submit to a more dominant, and more competent man.IF YOU WANT to get a woman to be sexually aroused by you then you have to frame yourself as the PRIZE and the ONE WHO IS MORE VALUABLE than her. One way of asserting yourself as the being that is of higher worth than her is by leading. A leader is naturally given the position of being higher in relative social status than those that follow him. HOW TO BE A LEADERThis brings the discussion to a natural question "How does one get others (whether it's men or women) to follow him?" The answer is this:A SUCCESSFUL LEADER HAS COMPETENCE, CONFIDENCE, and DECISIVENESS.WHEN ONE IS HIGHLY confident and decisive about a particular course of action (while having the skills to pull it off) then others will step aside to let it happen, play along, or follow him across the seven oceans.
You want to get a woman used to the idea and behavioral pattern of following your lead. First she does small compliance demands (with time slowly increasing her levels of doing what you want her to do), and before you know it: she is sucking your dick.IN CONTRAST, people are NOT going to follow someone who: sucks at what they teach ("like a fat person giving diet advice or a broke man giving get-rich advice"),who naturally has low confidence levels ("because deep down he knows that he is a pretending imposter") (a woman intuitively thinks "if he doesn't even trust himself then why should I?"), andcan't decide what to do (a woman intuitively thinks "don't fucking waste my time with your indecisiveness; come back to me when you have a clear plan of action and AT LEAST look like you know what you are doing").Demands too much too fast. Don't initiate interactions with "Hey, wanna fuck?" Start with giving value, creating an enjoyable experience and fostering a man-to-woman connection. Start with smaller compliance demands from her prior to bigger compliance demands.Appears to be a loser who can't even take care of himself - let alone those in his inner-circle.Is not an effective, articulate communicator (stutters, evasive eye-contact, fidgets, mumbles his words, looks down, touches his face due to nervousness, is too quiet, doesn't make sense, talks about things no one cares about, wastes everyones time including his own etc).PEOPLE WILL FOLLOW SOMEONE WHO: Has experience in what he is teaching, a track record of proven past successes, and positive references ("he's been around the block for a while; he probably knows his shit. Other people vouch for him. Lets see what this fucker has")High levels of confidence ("oh snap! This motherfucker is cocky!! I wonder what he is all about?").Knows exactly what he is doing or at least appears to know exactly what he is doing by having a clear plan of action ("he seems really certain about a particular path. He must be right. I don't have the time to figure all of this shit out by myself, so I'll just follow him for now.")TO
BE A LEADER DEVELOP COMPETENCE, CONFIDENCE AND DECISIVENESS. There are other qualities such as calculated humility, being mature, being responsible, and constant reinforcement of one's blade, but these three (competence, confidence, and decisiveness) mentioned are the primary ones.THE MOST IMPORTANT trait of being a leader is competence. Women will generally not follow a fool. Even if that fool is extremely confident, a woman will eventually figure out that he doesn't know what the fuck he is doing, sucks at his craft, and his life is shit to begin with. If you are a broke loser, don't expect women to follow your guidance and accept you as an authority figure in their life.YOU
NEED TO HAVE YOUR SHIT TOGETHER. This includes being good at basic self-care, having your own nice place, having a cool car, dressing like a BOSS, being financially independent, having a social life etc.THE BEST KIND of confidence is genuine and comes from within. When you gain experience, competence, and results then you will naturally be confident. Women can intuitively sense a man who has his life shit together and it turns them ON.FURTHER, I strongly encourage you to become competent in a field that women value and appreciate - particularly based on the type of women that you are interested in. If you are interested in young eighteen year old women, then being competent at understanding college and career dynamics is useful. Then work as a college tutor part time or enroll into one class for easy access to the college - while attending many of the college's social events (not Crypto Club which turned out to be a "hotdog farm").If you are interested in a traditional women, then being competent at spiritual matters is paramount. Become a member of an organization that creates events for that niche.If you are interested in the party type of woman then you should become competent in traveling to different countries, knowing the best sights/places, and the coolest events in your city.PRACTICE EVERY STEP OF THE SEDUCTION PROCESS (INCLUDING CONVERSATION) BY MEETING WOMEN IN YOUR DAILY LIFE AS YOU GO ABOUT YOUR DAY.GO TO WHERE THE TYPE OF WOMAN THAT YOU WANT TO MEET GOES TO. Millionaires and billionaires network at gold courses, high-end lounges, and cigar clubs. Women - straight out of high-school - that just turned 18 hang out at college freshman classes, and college prep tutoring sessions. Women who have more traditional values will be seen volunteering at organizations that have meaningful values.IDEALLY, you should tailor your game to a specific type of woman because one will have a higher yield of success being the "master of one than a jack of all trades". You don't need 43 different ways to meet women and 23 different opening lines to say to women; you just need at least 1-3 reliable methods. Likewise, you don't need to know 3,423 fishing spots to catch fish (and it would be a waste of time to find all of these spots); you just need to know a handful of good spots. Life is short, so don't make things unnecessarily more complicated than they have to be, and don't spread yourself too thin.DO YOUR MARKET RESEARCH. MASTER A NARROW PATH.Figure out the type of woman that you desire. Describe her. Then figure out what kind of man she desires, and where you have to be in order to meet these type of women. What kind of traits does she have?What is her rough age?What is her body-type?What kind of personality does she have?Where does she spend time hanging out for relaxation?Where does she spend time being alone (hint: often a library, coffee shop, taking the bus home, on the commute to work, or relaxing at a park bench nearby her school)?What kind of social clubs or organizations is she a part of (such as yoga club, salsa club, or simply working part time for a college's student union)?What kind of subjects is she interested in?What kind of fields does she value?What kind of man is she interested in?What TURNS HER ON?What makes her go ABSOLUTELY CRAZY OVER A GUY?What are the top 3 things that are holding you back from succeeding with this type of woman?What are 3 things you can do right now to instantly turn your life around and give you a huge seductive advantage (including moving to a new populated place that has convenient access to hotter, younger women)?The more you learn about a target (and the sociological variables involved) the easier it will be to conquer and dominate the target.AT
THE
ABSOLUTE
BARE
MINIMUM, FIND AT LEAST ONE GOOD PLACE TO MEET THE TYPE OF WOMEN THAT YOU ARE INTERESTED IN. THEN FOCUS ON MASTERING THAT PARTICULAR PATH OF BANGING PUSSY.
Every time you approach a woman in that place (through that particular method), you have an opportunity to practice your conversation, social and seduction skills in general. Further, every time you step outside your home: you have ample opportunities to practice your approaching skills.ALWAYS BE FLIRTING.SEDUCTION IS A LIFESTYLE.LEARN MORE about that type of woman and the kind of subjects that this type of woman is interested in (making a mental note of it). Become competent in a field that this type of woman values (whether it's travel, spirituality, cold read psychology, or college dynamics). Know where these type of women spend time relaxing, being social, and are more receptive to being approached (note: it's not when she is 3 minutes late to class, and is rushing down the hallway).AT THE SAME TIME, don't go overboard and neglect the more important aspect of bringing women into your world. While you might adopt certain values and knowledge fields to become an asset in that micro-culture, you still retain your self-identity and bring women into your world by having your own purpose in life, being enthusiastic about your own life passions and being a master in hobbies that are personally meaningful to you. 







LAW #1: SUMMARYLAW #1: BE EMOTIONALLY RELEVANT.Understand what her core values. Observe: (1) what does she value more than anything else in the world? (2) What is her Life Purpose? (3) What is personally meaningful and important to her? Then communicate those same core values back to her in conversation.TECHNIQUE: FIND COMMON INTERESTS: UTILIZE COMMONALITIESFind something that she is passionate about AND that you're passionate about; then talk about that! Look for topics of mutual interest and utilize them as "bait" for conversation.







LAW #2: THE PLEASURE PRINCIPLE; CREATE DESIRE AND LEAVE WOMEN WANTING MORE.LAW #2: WOMEN DO WHAT FEELS GOOD. CREATE DESIRE BY LEAVING A WOMAN WANTING MORE.Technique #2: End on a high note.When you sense a conversation is coming to an end, you be the one to end it properly first. Say something to spike her excitement and then end the interaction abruptly. This will leave her wanting you more and create artificial scarcity. This is vastly preferable to letting conversations fizzle out, die and then you eject the interaction as a result.TV SHOWS DO this all time; they end the episode on a cliff-hanger (especially on the most interesting part of the story/plot climax) to keep you hooked on waiting for the next episode to find out more.ALL CONVERSATIONS WILL COME to their natural conclusion. This is the way of the world; nothing is permanent. Take control of this. YOU be the one to end it first (subtly rejecting her) and end it on a high point. When you sense that the conversation is coming to its organic end, be the one to end it before she does. Ironically rejecting her a bit (sometimes playfully, and sometimes seriously) makes her want you even more!PUSHING A WOMAN AWAY, at the right moment, makes her want you TWICE AS MUCH. This is one of those times. By being the one to end the interaction, instead of having her end the interaction - you create this "push away" that leaves her wanting more.WOMEN THINK that they want social power, but the moment they get it: they lose respect and attraction for the man that they are dealing with. Hence, as an Alpha Male it is imperative that you seize social power for yourself by framing yourself as the prize and sustaining that frame throughout the interaction.AN ALPHA MALE has important life goals to attend to and a dream to chase; he has places to be, things to do, and people to meet. Hence, he increases his perceived worth through a perception of scarcity by limiting the time that women have with him. A woman will value a man who is busy (yet still makes time for her) than a man who is always instantly available without limitations. Create perceived scarcity.WOMEN EXPECT a man of high status have standards, to have things going on his life, and to be unavailable at times. It is not "weird" to hang up on a beautiful woman because you have more important shit to handle.YOU
ARE A PRIZE TO BE WON. YOU ARE A 10, SO FUCKING ACT LIKE IT. YOU ARE THE MAN THAT SHE HAS BEEN DREAMING ABOUT SINCE HER CHILDHOOD.FURTHER, keeping control of the social interaction in general is paramount. If you allow a woman to control the interaction, it may not lead to sex because she may not have sex on the agenda. She may even self-sabotage the interaction and lead you to the friend zone. Hence, ending on a high note is part of the general theme of leading a woman towards sex and being an Alpha Male who takes control of situations. By taking control of the interaction and guiding it towards sex then you use skill to get laid - rather than relying on luck or hope.FUCK RELYING ON CHANCE. FUCK waiting for opportunity. CREATE opportunity by taking charge of life and leading people towards mutually beneficial connections. YOU be the one to end the conversation first.END the conversation on a high-note - not when it fizzles out to deathBe in control of the interaction from the start.USE OPEN LOOPSWomen have a deep-need for closure. This is why cutting yourself off at the point of maximum suspense to create a cliff-hanger, is a GREAT WAY to get a woman more engaged in the conversation. This technique is known as creating open loops.THE GAME of Thrones and other popular TV shows implement open-loops to keep its viewers hooked into watching for long periods of a time. An episode will have multiple storylines playing at the same time. The episode will start with storyline #1 with characters #1-#3. After around five minutes, that storyline will be abruptly interrupted at its most interesting point and another storyline (#2) will be introduced with characters #4-#6. Viewers will continue to watch because they want to know what happened with storyline #1 and they have a deep-need for closure.DON'T TELL A WOMAN EVERYTHING. It is a fool who provides full closure and transparency. You want to keep parts of yourself a mystery to keep her guessing. This will keep her thinking about you! Imagination will spike her sexual arousal much more than seeing all the cards that you are holding. A woman may fuck you just to get the full story.DON'T ANSWER every question that she asks you with full transparency. Don't always say "yes" to her requests. Don't always be instantly available for as long as he wants. Don't always reward her for good behavior.WOMEN ARE LIKE CATS. If you give a cat a string, it will get bored and potentially even eject. If you dangle a string right in front of a cat (close enough so that it can reach the string with some effort but not so far away that it's discouraging), it will be tempted to chase like crazy - losing itself in the process. Likewise, if you tell a woman everything about yourself ("no secrets, tell-all" policy) and give her full validation then you have essentially given away the string for free.IT IS sexier to give only bits and have her earn these as rewards with her own investments. With time, the string can be held further and further away but the cat (read: woman) will still jump higher and higher to get it because it knows there is a possibility of getting juicy cat treats1 (read: more of your attention, validation, revealed secrets about who you are, and more opportunities to join you on fun adventures in your exciting lifestyle - that they see you enjoy on IG).THE ULTIMATE REWARD is the pleasure she receives from your dick. And there are rewards that she gets that are even greater than this such as: higher levels of commitment from you. With the highest reward of all is: earning your exclusivity. Your penis is a gift, and your sperm is worth more than gold.DON'T BE a fool who approaches women by immediately offering them the highest tier boyfriend benefits before they have even lifted a finger to reciprocate value in return. That doesn't sexually arouse women, and the women who do respond to do that kind of treatment are hardened, narcissistic gold-diggers with years of experience of leeching financial and psychological resources off men before discarding them once these men go broke (or lose their sanity).WOMEN WILL UNCONSCIOUSLY troll and bait for reactions for a quick ego boost and validation fix. Drama queens live for this high. Then once they get that surge of power, they'll search for a guy who brings more challenge because women appreciate guys who are hard to get more than a guy who is a "validation slut" and sells out his attention for "cheap" the moment some exposed flesh appears.DON'T TAKE this advice to an extreme and conclude something stupid like "NEVER show interest to women" or "NEVER compliment a woman".JUST GIVE out validation when it's *EARNED*. And be aware that giving it away easily "cheapens" its effect. Don't be a validation slut. MAXIMS: Cats chase dangling strings.Cats don't chase strings placed on their paws. Train her to do what you want, and to please you in the way that you enjoy. This starts in subtle ways, but becomes more apparent as time goes on and the conditioning is repeatedly reinforced.BY SEIZING social power (being the one to end interactions first, ending interactions on a high-note, putting yourself on a pedestal and mirroring disinterest) you leave a woman wanting more because women are pulled towards being with powerful men.
LAW SUMMARY:Women naturally do what feels good; they gravitate towards pleasure. You want to be a source of these good emotions. Further, you want to create desire within a woman, so that craves being with you. Tactics of doing this involve leaving a woman wanting more by ending the interaction on a high note, seizing social power, the use of open loops, and negation.
1 Attention and approval from high status men is the currency that women accept. Hence, the removal of attention (also known as a "Freeze Out") is how negative behavior from women is effectively punished. This is the exact opposite of some men do, which is chase harder: the moment a woman distances herself.







LAW #2: SUMMARYLAW #2: THE PLEASURE PRINCIPLEWomen live in the emotions of the moment. They do what feels good. Create desire within a woman. Do this by leaving her wanting more. Utilize push-away, open loops, negation, mixed signals, and power vacuums.THE
PLEASURE
PRINCIPLEAbove all, women care about doing what feels good. They live for these pleasurable emotions. A man who can be a provider of these enjoyable intense emotional experiences will have his fill of women.TECHNIQUE: THE PUSH-AWAYThe Push-Away is being the first one to end interactions. This makes women desire you more. Keep in mind that you can't play hard to get if you're hard to want. So first you have to give value and spark attraction; then you can pull back and watch her chase you.TECHNIQUE: OPEN LOOPSOpen loops is teasing women by mentioning an interesting subject but not explaining the full information right away. This will keep women hooked into the interaction because they want to know the full story and get closure.TECHNIQUE: NEGATIONNegation is by teasing women with an interesting piece of information about yourself but refusing to give full disclosure. Simply saying "no, I can't tell you" is very powerful to women because it creates an intense level of intrigue that makes women wonder about you.TECHNIQUE: MIXED SIGNALSMixed signals is switching between signs of interest and disinterest. This drives women WILD in a good way. She won't be able to stop thinking about you - wondering if you like her or not. The more a woman thinks about you, the more invested she becomes in you.TECHNIQUE: POWER VACUUMPower vacuums is seizing social power in the interaction. Women then become baited into staying in the interaction so they can get the social power back. Little do they know that in the process of interacting with you, they become more and more attracted and you're too competent to give up that social power. It's the social power that you have that makes them attracted to you in the first place. Remember: women are attracted to powerful men, so taking social power from her is imperative. Push her off the pedestal, put yourself on the pedestal and sustain the frame that YOU ARE THE PRIZE throughout the interaction.







LAW #3: USE PSYCHOLOGICAL FORCE - IF NECESSARY. BE RUTHLESSLY PRAGMATIC.LAW #3: A WOMAN'S PERCEPTION OF REALITY IS MALLEABLE. USE PSYCHOLOGICAL FORCE WHEN NECESSARY.A woman's sexual selection mechanism is absolutely cruel. A woman will not mate with a man - out of pity; she will mate out of biological and psychological selfishness. To thrive in the harsh conditions of the sexual marketplace, BE RUTHLESSLY, MERCILESSLY PRACTICAL.MATCH PSYCHOPATHY WITH PSYCHOPATHY. Outsmart a woman's mindless behaviors by always being several steps ahead. No matter what she does, it doesn't faze you because you've already predicted every common contingency in your mind and have prepared, field-tested contingency behavioral responses ready.TECHNIQUE #3: USE OPEN-ENDED QUESTIONS.A question can be an excellent tool to spark a conversation - as long as it's not the generic commonly-asked question that she has heard a million times before like: "come to this place often?" "what do you do?" "where are you from?"1AVOID generic questions that trigger the auto-pilot response of "been there, done that, another average guy, and I'm bored". If she answered that question several hundred times in the past then asking it again automatically puts her to "sleep; UHH... TRAPPED IN ANOTHER BORING CONVERSATION THAT I CAN'T ESCAPE MODE" before you even finish answering the questions.NEWBIE: "How are you doing during "Woman: "Good."EVEN IF SHE ANSWERS, these boring close-ended questions (that every other guy asks), the answers may be just a few words which doesn't give you a lot of fodder to work with in terms of providing ammunition for your response. In the optimal situation, a woman's answer gives you information that you can use for the next thing that you say to her. In contrast to close ended questions, open ended questions create more interesting responses.CLOSE ENDED QUESTION:Seducer: "Are you working on a passion project right now?"Woman: yes.OPEN ENDED QUESTION:Seducer: "You look suspiciously happy. What is a passion project that you are working on right now?"Woman: *won't stop yapping*LISTEN
UP, MY SON, WHO WILL FUCK WOMEN HARD IN THE PUSSY WITH HIS MIGHTY PENIS. BE MORE FUCKING CREATIVE.
It's not hard to stand out from the average guy considering how powerful the social effect of conformity is; most guys are just basic-bitch-clones of each other.
It's called pickup-ARTISTRY because there is ART and STYLE involved with seducing women. You want to have something about you that makes you UNQIUE in an interesting manner. For instance: the concept of peacocking is the notion that a man should wear at least one interesting item that differentiates him from the hordes of other look-alike men playing the field.THE VERY FACT that you are reading this book to gain greater levels of self-awareness, a better understanding of social dynamics and concrete actionable-intel makes you part of the 1%; you believe in yourself enough to invest in practical knowledge for a better future. There are amazing things coming for you as long as you take daily action!!WHOEVER SAID that you should never ask women a question was DEAD WRONG. In fact, its part of the seduction community dogma that when taken out of context can ruin the game skills of young men.HERE IS the truth once and for all:QUESTIONS CAN BE HIGHLY effective in getting women to invest into a conversation and to frame the interaction to your seductive advantage. Contrary to standard community seduction advice, the truth is that: sometimes a single well-thought-out non-generic question is all it takes to create an emotionally STIMULATING and ENGAGING conversation with a woman.THIS EXPLAINS the popularity of the opinion-opener in old school pickup theory. There was a reason why the "Who lies more - men or women?" conversational opener was so commonly used and that reason is that the right open ended question is like dropping a nuclear bomb; the effects can be remarkable to observe.4 CONVERSATIONAL MISTAKES:  - MISTAKE: barraging them with questions one-after-another because you're in INTERVIEW MODE. This behavior is incredibly annoying to women and can lead to them walking off in the middle of the one sided conversation. You don't want to be the guy who creates conversation with women by attacking them with list of questions without contributing something of value of your own. A conversation is a two way street where both partners give value to each other. - MISTAKE: not asking any questions at all. This is the extreme opposite of INTERVIEW MOOD. Guys hear the advice of "don't ask women too many questions" and mistakenly assume this means "don't ask questions at all". As I have outlined numerous times, questions are an incredibly valuable tool to getting women invested into a mutually-enjoyable conversation. Questions are absolutely essential tools.  - MISTAKE: only asking close-ended questions that lead to 1-2 word answers. While close ended questions may have their use in certain situations (especially to getting a woman warmed up to the idea of talking with you), they generally don't get women as involved into contributing to talking with you as an intriguing, fun-to-answer open-ended question does. - MISTAKE: making statements that don't provoke a response. What gets women to respond back to what you said (thus reinforcing a behavioral pattern of taking turns in speaking) is to end your conversational gambits with an "emotional punch" that almost compels women to respond. For instance telling a young woman attending college "When you go to college your life ends" is far more likely to get a response than telling a woman a bland statement like "College is educational." Side note: I have personally field-tested that line dozens of times and it's great at getting women emotionally engaged in talking with you because it packs a psychological punch and compromises their ego (she "HAS TO RESPOND" because her ego is at stake).ADVANCED NOTES:Used correctly, the tool of asking questions is vital to keep in your toolbox and will assist you in your journey towards seduction mastery. I repeat: asking questions is a VITAL TOOL. However, used incorrectly they will hinder you. Understand that asking questions is usually a form of taking value because you are requesting that the other person speak about a subject under your command. Asking a question is telling someone to do something (reply to your command to give information) and people don't always like to be told what to do - especially by complete strangers who they just met.HENCE, it is better to capitalize on the principle of reciprocity by first giving value by making interesting observations and statements prior to requesting value. GIVE VALUE, FIRST; REQUEST VALUE, SECOND.WHEN POSSIBLE, start interactions by making provoking statements and observations about her (or the situation that you share with her), that bait her to invest by talking more with you - rather than forcing her to invest with questions. Here is why: when a woman contributes to a conversation at her own initiative then she becomes more invested in you than if you force her to contribute by asking her a question.TURN QUESTIONS INTO STATEMENTSFor example: instead of asking where she is from, verbalize your educated guess. Instead of saying "Where are you from?" say "I can tell that you are from [XYZ]". IF YOU'RE CORRECT, she will be impressed. If you're wrong, she will be intrigued why you choose what you have said and will often correct you. However, if statements fail to generate conversational investment from her then use questions to help reinforce the behavioral pattern of mutual conversation. A long pause without either side contributing can kill the interaction ("well, nice meeting you. Bye!).AWKWARD SILENCES KILL INTERACTIONS.
Upon approaching a woman, in the first five minutes of the interaction (until the point in the interaction when a woman becomes hooked to talking with you), fill all silences yourself. If a woman is not responding to what you have said then ask a question to metaphorically take her hand and guide her to invest in you.WHY USING PSYCHOLOGICAL FORCE IS NECESSARY.I'm going to tell you a secret that is going to help you tremendously with women. Listen carefully. THE MORE A WOMAN WORKS FOR YOU, andTHE MORE HOOPS SHE JUMPS THROUGH FOR YOU,THE MORE ATTRACTED and EMOTIONALLY INVESTED SHE WILL BE IN YOU.If you literally remember and implement nothing else that I have said except this one one lesson then buying this book would be worth it.THIS 1 PIECE of advice is absolutely essential to understand, and it will transform your sex life if you implement it.GET CHICKS TO DO SHIT FOR YOU.WHAT IS one big reason relationships fail? It is because the guy does all the work & puts in a huge amount of effort, while the girl does nothing but exist. The guy sweats for her sake, and all she does is breathe.HENCE, the guy is super invested, but the girl doesn't give a fuck because human nature is to not value what comes easy. Condition her to jump through hoops for you because the more sweats to win you over, the more she will value you when she does finally win you over.REMEMBER: women value what they have to work for and earn. Start with small hoops and then increase the hoop size with time. Implement this one piece of advice and you will start to see girls fall in love with you and be absolutely crazy over you.USE PSYCHOLOGICAL FORCE WHEN NECESSARYSometimes a woman will do things for you simply for the sake of of making you happy and giving value; however, if this is not the case then request it.THIS IS a book about conversation so I'll use conversation as a metaphor but the same principles that are relevant in conversation skills, also apply to general relationship skills. Here is the principle:GIVE VALUE. And then wait for a woman to give value back to you. If she doesn't then request it - by asking a question.IN CONVERSATION, this would manifest itself in the following manner: A seducer says something that is interesting, entertaining, relevant to the situation, and provides emotional value that uplifts the woman's spirit.The woman says something back that also contributes value back because of the principle of reciprocity.The seducer continues to say something else that is interesting and provides emotional value - thus reinforcing the behavioral pattern of conversation.The woman says nothing in response creating a brief silence and drops the balls. As the conversation dies, the interaction may also die.The seducer (sensing that the interaction may die because the woman has nothing of value to say back in response to his response) asks a question and in a way "forces" a woman to respond back. He metaphorically picks up the ball and holds it next to her hands - making it easy to pick it up.
A question applies social pressure (or psychological force) for the woman to invest back in to the conversation. After all, in most cultures it is considered rude to ignore a question. In this case, a question was the best possible move for the seducer to play because if he would have continued to make statements then the interaction would turn into a one-sided monologue instead of an interactive dialogue. At the risk of stating the obvious, I'll mention here that long monologues (that lack positive social feedback from those listening-in) kill interactions because they come off as try-hard. Hence, the goal is to have a woman engaged in a conversation with you and a conversation is a two-way street (dialogue).The woman responds to the question in an enthusiastic matter (because it's not a boring question that she has answered a thousand times before).The seducer responds to her answer by commenting on it in a manner that is interesting, entertaining and provides emotional value. He keeps things fun by spiking her emotions with a bold statement.The woman returns value by also saying something that is interesting, entertaining and uplifting (implying that she is enjoying the conversation and is happy with the value-exchanges being done).*the cycle repeats itself through numerous rounds*The man makes a higher tier close by stating "Hey, it's a bit chilly here. Lets grab a coffee down the block" *pointing in the distance* This is a bit forceful because the man is taking the initiative and leading the interaction towards a greater level of intimacy - instead of waiting for the woman to take charge and make the initiatives.The woman concurs - thus buying into the behavioral pattern of following the man's lead*the compliance cycle repeats itself across multiple mediums until a fuck close is achieved, and a sexual relationship is initiated. Even then, game skills are relevant in a 20 year relationship, just like it's relevant in a 20 second interaction.*PERCEPTION IS MALLEABLE.Always create the perception that you are a man of high social standing in society. Don't do this because you need her validation, or approval. Do this because perception management is what will get you results (e.g. sex) in the sexual marketplace.THIS IS one of the reasons why: - dressing wealthy,- having powerful body-language (verbal and non-verbal),- having powerful contacts as male friends (social proof on steroids),- having beautiful women as contacts (preselection),- decent personal grooming, etcis paramount.
1 At some point, the seducer does ask these basic questions of "What do you for work?" etc, but that should not be at the start of interactions because it violates the rule of: generating attraction precedes building rapport. A woman has to first become attracted to a man before she cares about learning the mundane details of his life, and sharing the mundane details of her life. First a seducer focuses on generating genuine female intrigue and then he focuses on building rapport with the female (not the other way around). Further, there are far more creative ways to learning more about a woman than asking generic questions that trigger auto-pilot negative responses because of how fucking annoying these questions can be (after all, the last 1,000 men who have said those exact words were fucking losers and have created an intense negative anchor associated with that unique combination of words). For instance, instead of saying "where you are from?" the seducer can say "You look like you're from New York."







LAW #3: SUMMARYLAW #3: USE PSYCHOLOGICAL FORCE. BE RUTHLESSLY PRAGMATIC.A woman's perception of reality is malleable. When you have a strong frame and 100% BULLETPROOF CONFIDENCE then you can say and do almost anything and it will work.







LAW #4: STRING THEORY; CREATE A VACUUM. USE SILENCE TO YOUR ADVANTAGE.LAW #4: WOMEN VALUE WHAT THEY WORK TO ACQUIRE MUCH MORE THAN WHAT COMES FREE. CREATE A VACUUM.TECHNIQUE #4: UTILIZE CALCULATED PAUSES.Use the "pregnant pause". When story-telling or sharing your opinion on a matter *PAUSE* at the right moments (as soon as you say something particularly edgy) to allow her to contribute back to the conversation. Create opportunities for the girl to contribute to the conversation. Use eye-contact to reinforce the expectation that it's her turn to talk.IF YOU ARE the only person who is talking then it can come across as try-hard. A woman has to invest in a guy in order to value him. Women value what they work for. Hence, it's necessary for her attraction levels to jump through hoops on your behalf.7 CONVERSATION SINS: - taking too long to explain something,- using filler and boring fluff content,- repeating yourself,- taking too long to hit the punch line,- not having a punch line at the end of a small ramble,- not pausing at interaction points to let her talk,- not having an obvious ending to what you're saying, so a woman picks up on the cue that it is HER TURN to speak in the conversation,IN THE INITIAL phase of the conversation, talk in short-bursts that all have punch lines in the end. Going on a lengthy monologue, without receiving conversational feedback from her is weird and you may lose her attention span. Be self-amused. Talk about things that you enjoy.ANTICIPATE TIMES when she is most likely to respond and pause during those moments to allow her invest into the conversation because (1) her investment in you is more important than you generating attraction, and, (2) a conversation should be a two-way street.ADVANCED NOTES:Time in the field will tell you proper ratios. An ideal conversation is roughly a 50/50% divide - albeit at the start of pickup it will be around 80/20% where you are doing the majority of the talking. The reason why you are doing most of the talking initially is because you approached her (hence, the burden of carrying the conversation is on you) and she may not be in a social mode yet. THE SEQUENCE: The seducer says something and then ends at a provoking moment to allow a woman to contribute to the conversation.He holds eye-contact.He then waits for the woman to say something back.Often at this point the woman will respond (giving into the social pressure) but if she doesn't seem likely to contribute on her own initiative at this point of the interaction (providing a body-language cue such as averting her gaze) then the seducer will either move on to his next conversational point, or ask a question.If all you do is chase a woman then you don't structure an opportunity for a woman to chase you. By creating space, you allow a woman to invest in you! The more she invests in you, the more she rationalize that you are worth investing in. When one creates a vacuum then women will fill it with their efforts.







LAW #4: SUMMARYLAW #4: CREATE A VACUUM.Women are like cats. They don't chase strings they already have. They chase strings that could disappear. Women are more MOTIVATED BY FEAR OF LOSS than promise of gain. Give value; then create a vacuum, so that invests back by giving you value. For a relationship to be strong there needs to be a constant exchange of value - to the point where both members are better off together than alone.







LAW #5: BRING HER INTO YOUR WORLD MORE THAN YOU ARE BROUGHT INTO HER WORLD.LAW #5: WOMEN WANT TO SUBMIT TO A MORE DOMINANT, POWERFUL MAN WHO HAS A FIERY PURPOSE. BRING HER INTO YOUR WORLD. A WOMAN SHOULD BE MORE DRAWN INTO YOUR REALITY THAN YOU ARE DRAWN INTO HERS.Technique #5: Speak with enthusiasm.WHEN YOU TALK with fierce conviction, excitement and enthusiasm, you will DRAW PEOPLE INTO YOUR WORLD.BUT IF YOUR voice is robotic, monotone and flat then it will put people to sleep. Speak with enthusiasm, energy and fierce conviction to DRAW HER INTO YOUR WORLD.GET RID of the monotone tonality, flat-line delivery style and dull energy levels.GET EXCITED when talking about your passions and watch her get sucked into the conversation. Talk with EXCITEMENT, ENERGY, ENTHUSIASM, and PASSION. Talking like this will SUCK PEOPLE INTO YOUR WORLD and YOUR REALITY.IF YOU DON'T CARE about what you are talking about then don't expect others to care either. When you talk about something that MATTERS to you, it SHOWS. In contrast, if you don't care about what you're talking about then that shows too and will lead her to not caring as well. To be interesting, be interested in what you are saying.THE SELF TENDS to shine through; hence, you ideally want to be the real fucking deal. Women are watching you and unconsciously soaking in everything you communicate - both verbally and non-verbally.HENCE, it is imperative that you show absolute strength and fearlessness. When you speak with enthusiasm, energy, passion, and conviction about your vision in life then you are sub-communicating the signal that you are a man who is on his path and purpose in life. Although she may not consciously be aware of this, a woman desires a man who has his own life and shit going on.
A woman desires to be a supplement to a man's amazing life - not be life itself. She wants to help a man succeed in his meaningful life mission - not be the mission itself.WOMEN ARE DISGUSTED by lost-souls who are going nowhere, have nothing going on, and have a "I don't give a fuck about anything at all" perspective. You should give a fuck about your personal goals in life and where you are heading in the next 6 months, 1 year and 5 years. If there is nothing that excites you in life then something is terribly wrong and you need to set bigger vision! Set daily, weekly and monthly goals to be aligned with that vision. Remember: you are worth fighting for!!! WOMEN ARE LIKE TALENT SCOUTS. They're looking to emotionally support a man who has legit potential for greatness. They want to support a man on his life's journey towards greatness.SPEAKING with enthusiasm is part of the larger point of being a man who loves life. If you hate getting out of bed in the morning then this is a sign that you have given up on life, your dreams and living to the fullest. Create a vision that excites you, and then take action everyday to turn that dream into a reality.







10







LAW #5: SUMMARYLAW #5: DOMINATE COMPLETELYBring a woman into your world, more than you are drawn into hers. Even a feminist has an innate desire to submit to a more powerful, dominant man on his life's fiery purpose.PUSSY IS NOT the end goal. Focus on your life's purpose. Create the conditions where a woman is a help to your life's purpose - not the purpose of life itself.







11







LAW #6: THE LAW OF STATE TRANSFERENCE; CHANGE HER MOOD, AND YOU'LL CHANGE HER MIND. BE THE CALM ANCHOR IN HER TORNADOS.LAW #6: CHANGE HER MOOD, AND YOU'LL AUTOMATICALLY CHANGE HER MIND.Technique #6: Add Energy and Emotion.WHEN YOU TAP into your emotions and speak from the heart, you will move mountains. Emotionally charged communication is far more captivating than emotionless communication styles.SPEAK FROM THE HEART. Words that come from the heart, enter the heart. When you really believe in what you are saying then it will create an IMPACT WITHIN HER that will stay with her - potentially for her entire life.DON'T TALK like a history professor reciting facts, logical discourse and dry details. Inject fucking emotion into your words. Speak with enthusiasm, energy and emotions.THE LAW OF STATE TRANSFERENCEFEEL something when you are talking and she will FEEL something as well because emotions are contagious. Be in the emotional state that you want the woman to be in.HOW YOU SAY something is more important than what you say because she cares INFINITELY MORE about energy, sensations and the transmission of good-emotions THAN she does about the gaining of new knowledge.THIS IS COUNTER-INTUITIVE to logical thinkers such as INTJs.INJECT EMOTION into your words to make them far more interesting. Don't talk with a monotone, flat-line voice like a fucking robot. You are a human who feels things; act like it. Be EXPRESSIVE in communication.  Being EXPRESSIVE (instead of having a flat-line delivery style) will instantly make you ten times more interesting to women .ONE THING that you'll notice is that women often care about emotionally-rich subjects such as animals, relationships, social dynamics, and travel THAN they care about technical, logical and emotionally-dry subjects such as day-trading analytics, and chess. Now one can make an emotionally-dry subject sound exciting by adding his own energy into it, but it's easier to do that with a subject that is inherently emotionally-rich than emotionally dry.A SEDUCER who can captivate a woman's world by injecting emotions into his words will be able to make women feel things that they haven't felt with overly logical, deeply analytical serious men. Ultimately, a woman cares more about how she feels when she is around a man more than she cares about anything else. She might forget what you told her specifically, but she won't forget how you made her feel.THE STORY TELLING TECHNIQUEWhen telling stories from your personal life, take women through a range of emotions so they can LIVE VICARIOUSLY THROUGH YOUR WORDS. There is a reason why movies are a billion dollar industry; stories sell ideas, and provide an enjoyable escape from reality to the masses.







12







LAW #6: SUMMARYLAW #6: CHANGE HER MOOD, AND YOU'LL CHANGE HER MIND.CHANGE HER MOOD, AND YOU'LL CHANGE HER MIND. WHAT YOU FEEL IS WHAT SHE WILL FEEL. Be in the emotional state that you want a woman to be in; speak from the heart to let the inner positive emotions overflow outwards.WOMEN ACT on emotion and then use logic to rationalize everything in post-action analysis. Women act based on how they feel, so a man who can change how a woman feels will change how she acts and views the world.







13







LAW #7: SPIKE HER EMOTIONAL STATE.LAW #7: WOMEN FEED ON A MAN'S ENERGY LEVELS AND EMOTIONAL STATE. BE AN OVERFLOWING FOUNTAIN OF GOOD EMOTIONS AND ENTHUSIASM FOR LIFE.TECHNIQUE #7: HAVE A GREAT VIBE!!!When you've got game, you can open with anything and it will still start a conversation with a cute girl. It's not the words that matter as much as the energy, vibe and vocal tonality behind the words. You want to speak from a place of high-energy, overflowing good emotions, a contagious enthusiasm for lifeHow you say it > what you say.WOMEN CARE MORE about how you make them feel than anything else. Energize them, flame good emotions, provide an intense emotional experience - ignore negative vibes, and overly logical conversations.
It's not the words themselves that create the magic but the confidence from which they are said in.FOR ANYTHING that comes out of your mouth, remember to OWN IT 100%.WHAT KILLS THE VIBE: - complaining,- exuding sadness,- criticizing others,- bringing attention to negative emotions,WHAT ADDS VALUE: - focusing on the positive,- exuding enthusiasm for life,- uplifting spirits and people's self-image.WOMEN VIEW the world from "emotional glasses", so a man who is able to communicate in this language of emotions will resonate deeply with women. Develop your EQ (emotional intelligence) to understand your own emotional state, be able to identify the emotional state of others, and learn how to improve the mood of those who are around you through practical behavioral techniques (such as storytelling, pacing a woman's reality, and other techniques mentioned in this book).WHEN YOU CONSISTENTLY IMPROVE A WOMAN'S EMOTIONAL state to one of happiness and intense excitement, then you will become an anchor that she will use to bring herself up. Even when she's going through a storm of negative emotions and tension, you'll be there - a calm, relaxed unmoving mountain - to anchor her back to reality.THE GO FIRST PRINCIPLEYou must be in the emotional state that you want to take a woman into. After all, you can't give what you don't have.







14







LAW #7: SUMMARYLAW #7: SPIKE HER EMOTIONS.Be proactive - not reactive. Be at the cause - not at the effect. Let her play by the cards that you deal.SUPPLEMENT A PASSIVE MATING STRATEGY, with active tactics. Take the initiative to spike a woman's emotions. Press her emotional buttons.







15







LAW #8: PROVOKE AN EMOTIONAL RESPONSE. TRIGGER HER.LAW #8: WOMEN ARE PUPPETS OF EGO, EMOTIONS, PRIMAL INSTINCTS AND SOCIOLOGICAL FORCES. PROVOKE A RESPONSE. BE WILLING TO BE PROVOCATIVE.How to get a woman committed into a conversation: provoke a response by touching a nerve and tugging on a heart-string.BLAND STATEMENTS DON'T elicit conversation responses but bold, polarizing and controversial statements do. BE POLARIZING.WHEN BOLD STATEMENTS WORK, they work like a BANG!!EMOTION CREATES MOTION. GET IT? E+MOTION.If she feels something then that feeing will compel her to say something. The lesson is: provoke an emotional response to provoke a conversational response. PRESS HER EMOTIONAL BUTTONS.IF YOU ARE able to create an intense emotional state within a woman, she will not shut the fuck up. She will talk non-stop and be highly invested in continuing to talk with you. This is true even if she is "busy" and there are other guys in the scenario.1 Here is a simple way to remember this concept: E-motions create conversational MOTIONS.APATHY IS THE OPPOSITE OF LOVE. FEMALE INDIFFERENCE IS THE ENEMY.During a conversation, when you make her feel something - anything at all - then you are drawing her into your world and making her psychologically invested in you. Emotions are addictive, create involvement and create emotional engagement.IN CONTRAST, if a woman feels nothing, she will say nothing.INCREASE THE INTENSITY OF HER EMOTIONAL STATE BY SPIKING HER EMOTIONS.Focus on the telling of emotional information over the telling of factual information. She cares far more about the former because inducing higher emotional arousal makes her feel more alive.Pump up intense emotions into her system by saying and doing things that increase emotional arousal; social scientists have confirmed that increasing emotional arousal increases enjoyment in life.This tip is the opposite of what intellectuals tend to do. Friendly conversation is called being a bore. Don't be boring. Ensure that you sprinkle in highly-edgy, highly-emotionally-charged spikes into the conversation.HOW TO FLIRT: CHALLENGE HER. A WOMAN'S FRUSTRATION IS A FORM OF ATTRACTION TO YOU.When you tease, playfully challenge, or neg a woman then you are getting her engaged into the interaction on an emotional level because now her ego is at stake. When you've poked at her pride then she has to pump up her self-esteem by teasing you back; the mutual back-and-forth teasing gets a woman psychologically and emotionally invested into the interaction.This the logic of flirting and is a far superior medium of communication to the apathetic, "I don't give a fuck" response that bland, politically correct nice guys get. 
1 A woman in an intense emotional state is highly susceptible to being seduced because her logical mind is shut down. This is also known as High Buying Temperature and the Amygdala Hijack.







16







LAW #8: SUMMARYLAW #8: EMOTION CREATES MOTION.An emotional woman is a talkative woman. Provoke an emotional response.BE POLARIZING. Be offensive and create frustration - if necessary. Women value challenge more than the nice guy ever knew. Women will forgive the man who went too far, but they won't forgive the man who is boring. Being boring is the cardinal sin for dealing with women.







17







LAW #9: GO FIRST; THEN LEVERAGE RECIPROCITY AND MIRRORING.LAW #9: RECIPROCITY IS EFFECTIVE FOR INSTANTLY GETTING COMPLIANCE.Imagine two different situations: Situation #1: immediately upon entering a restaurant, a waiter asks for you for a five dollar tip. "Get the fuck outta here" would be your initial response.Situation #2: a waiter provides stellar prompt service throughout your meal - ensuring that you're glass of orange juice is always filled, there are plenty of napkins, there are lots of extra condiments, you have a wide selection of bagels - and then after the meal is over, the waiter requests a five dollar tip. The latter situation is more likely to get compliance because value was given upfront for free, and then value was requested secondly.IMPLEMENT THE PRINCIPLE OF RECIPROCITYWomen are more likely to give value when free value has already been given to them. Hence, give emotional and conversation value FIRST. Request emotional and conversational value SECOND.IMPLEMENT THE PRINCIPLE OF MIRRORINGWhat you put into an interaction is what you will get out of it because women will mirror your behavioral patterns. Put into a relationship the kinds of things that you would like to get out of a relationship.THIS CONCEPT IS relevant in having conversations with women: If you want a woman to invest, be a shinning example for her to role model after.If you want a woman to entertain you (and give value) when it's her turn to talk, lead by example and say something that is entertaining (and value-giving) to her when you are talking.Showcase the proper model of giving value, so that a woman will reciprocate by giving the same type of value that you gave her.SHARE DETAILS ABOUT YOUR LIFE. Talk about exciting and funny things that are currently happening in your life. Explain interesting pieces of information that you have recently learned yourself.ASK YOURSELF: What is a project that I'm working on right now that I'm passionate about?What is something extraordinary that recently happened to me?What is something new that I learned recently that completely changed my perspective on the world?Discover the answers to these questions and then share them boldly. This will encourage her to share as well because of the effect of reciprocity and mirroring. A conversation will ensue.SOCIAL LEARNING THEORYShare something personal about your life but make sure that it is amusing and has a funny/bold ending to it. By sharing something about your life, you are inviting her to share something about her life too. After all, according to American-Canadian psychologist Albert Bandura people learn best by role-modeling after observed behaviors. A woman is more likely to learn by seeing a demonstration of proper behavior than she is by listening to an explanation of proper behavior.ON AN ADVANCED NOTE, sometimes you want to give sarcastic and evasive answers to women to encourage them to prod more and to spike intrigue by appearing more mysterious (See Law #2: Create desire by leaving a woman wanting more and utilizing the negation tactic).RECIPROCITY IS REAL.You have to value the input that you get from your conversational partner to reinforce the behavioral pattern of her responding to you. Give her intermittent reward for investing in you. Respect is gained by giving respect.







18







LAW #9: SUMMARYLAW #9: GO FIRST. THEN LEVERAGE RECIPROCITY AND MIRRORING.Share details about your life. Talk passionately about your life's purpose, and cool hobbies that you are engaged in. This will inspire women to open up, as well.







19







LAW #10: DON'T CHASE; ATTRACT. LESS IS OFTEN MORE.Women value what they work for, and disregard that which comes too easily. You want a woman to sweat on your behalf because that is what is going to create the emotional connection. The more a woman works to win over the prize (you), the more she will value it when it's finally won.IN THE CONTEXT OF A CONVERSATION, you want a woman to go out of her way for you and give conversational value - so that you are inspired to keep talking to her and entertained enough to enjoy the interaction, in general. If you're talking non-stop when will she will get the chance to do so? Know when to shut the fuck up and utilize silence to your advantage.IF YOU'RE the one who is doing ALL THE TALKING in a conversation then you aren't creating enough of a vacuum for a woman to invest back into the conversation. If you're the one who is doing ALL OF THE CHASING then you aren't creating space for a woman to chase you back. Hence, less effort on your behalf sometimes yields greater results.HE WHO TRIES HARD, dies hard. Knowing when NOT to do something is just as important as knowing what you SHOULD BE DOING. Exerting less effort can ironically make you more attractive.LAW#10 IS relevant to those who are not struggling with running out of things to say. Someone who is still going through the struggle of learning how to talk endlessly need not apply this chapter.TECHNIQUE #10: NXTBT.When you get to a point where you can speak endlessly, you'll start to realize that you have approximately 3-6 ideas floating in your head that you can share with your conversational partner AT ANY POINT in the conversation. Because you have so much that you can say, and not enough time to say it all: you inherently have to be highly selective and choose the most interesting piece of them all.SOME THINGS ARE MORE interesting than other things. While some things that you say, are not interesting at all. While your conversational partner is talking, LISTEN to what she is saying and simultaneously figure out what your "next best thing to say" is (NXTBT for short). Make a mental note of it. When she is done talking, deliver the NXTBT.ONCE YOU ARE good at assessing the NXTBT then you can create a mental list of things that you want to say after your conversational partner is finished talking, and prioritize them from most interesting to least interesting. Say that which is the most interesting first.THAT BEING SAID, you don't want to be too stuck in your head thinking about the NXTBT to the point where you fail to be in the present moment and fail to listen to what she is saying. A good balance is optimal.WHO IS BORING? HE WHO SAYS EVERYTHING - EVEN THE STUFF THAT ISN'T THAT INTERESTING. You don't want to be repetitive when talking to women. If you have already made a point, then don't repeat it. Repeating a point is nagging and is an annoying behavior to people in general. COME UP WITH SOMETHING NEW TO SAY. If you are running out of content then this is a sign that you have to work on your improv skills, you are not in talkative state, or that you should prepare more material before meeting.Aim to convey more information in less words.Cut out the boring, irrelevant details - that are not relevant to a woman's passions or your passions. WOMEN WANT MEN THAT OTHER WOMEN WANT. CREATE INSTANT SOCIAL PROOFWomen want men that other women want. You should always imply that you have options - even if you don't state this directly. When you are talking about other women in your life, refer to them casually as "just friends" - not former lovers.5 WAYS TO CREATE INSTANT SOCIAL PROOF: - Embedding social proof into conversation: "My friends and I...".- Open adjacent sets. This is pickup lingo for start conversations with nearby people.- Mention an ex-fianc.- Post photos on your social media accounts of you with attractive females doing cool things.- Mention times that you are busy before bringing up the times that you are available.DISPLAY high social status via photos on your personal social media accounts such as IG, FB or even YT. It's like a "visual dating resume" that women view when looking up your name on Google. Tag successful, cool people in these photos for instant social proof.IF YOU HAVE SUCCESSFUL FRIENDS, women will assume that you are successful - as well. Good photos (that display high status) also include traveling to foreign countries, and engaging in passions.SOCIAL MEDIA - USED CORRECTLY (with photos that display an affluent, exciting lifestyle and being at the hottest events in your city) - can be used to generate leads and serves as a funnel for meeting local women. 







20







LAW #10: SUMMARYLAW #10: DON'T CHASE. ATTRACT.Show intent, but don't be psychologically clingy. Less is often more. If you're doing ALL OF THE TALKING then you aren't creating enough opportunities for a woman to bring her own conversational value.







 







21







LAW #11: DON'T PLAY THE GAME BY THE RULES THAT SHE SETS. PATTERN DISRUPT HER BS.TECHNIQUE #11: THE PATTERN DISRUPTLetting a woman steer the reigns of a conversation and social interaction is just plain STUPID because I assure you that women often do not have a sexuality on their agenda. You must take control and lead things to seduction or nothing may occur but wasted time. DOMINATE THE CONVERSATION.NOT TO MENTION, that answering boring interview questions creates BOREDOM FOR HER. She starts a boring topic of conversation, you respond with a boring answer, she gets bored and then she leaves. Instead of playing along, answer the question that you WISH SHE WOULD HAVE ASKED.ONE OF THE principles of female psychology is that when women talk to men, they often don't have a sexual agenda in mind and if you let her control the conversation then it usually won't lead to sex. This is why you cannot let her lead; YOU MUST SEIZE THE REIGNS OF CONTROL.DON'T LET her control the reigns of the conversation. YOU take CONTROL. Lead the conversation towards a place of mutual seduction. Don't let girls trap you into boring, logical conversations that lead to NOWHERE.PATTERN DISRUPT HER SELF-SABOTAGE NARRATIVES. Alphas interrupt boring conversations or other threads that they don't want to engage in. If she starts talking about boring things and boring herself OR if she talks about sad things then INTERRUPT HER and CHANGE THE SUBJECT.DON'T ANSWER her boring questions with logical boring answers. Respond sarcastically or with humor. This is far more entertaining than giving dull facts. Nice conversation is BORING.DO NOT ALLOW yourself to be associated with boredom or negative emotions. Be associated with excitement & positive emotions. YOU'LL GET MORE out of life if you stopped being a pussy, beta male, and started developing courage and TAKING CHARGE.  Beta males are passive. Alpha males TAKE CHARGE OF SOCIAL AND SEXUALLY CHARGED SITUATIONS.DON'T LIVE CONSTANTLY REACTING to things and to women. Live proactively. Don't play the game by her rules. HIJACK CONTROL. You deal the cards that she plays by. SHE ENTERS YOUR WORLD ON YOUR TERMS.START CONVERSATIONS WITH DOMINANCE.In NYC, if you try to start a conversation from a nervous, shy and submissive frame of mind then girls will often just ignore you entirely or pretend they didn't notice. Don't believe me? Try it. Let the lack of results speak for themselves.IDEALLY YOU SHOULD START a conversation with a girl with: - SUPREME BULLETPROOF CONFIDENCE,- powerful body-language,- unshakeable frame,- dominant frame of mind that assumes authority,- coming from a feel-good place inside.- approach with a full cup - not from a needy, approval-seeking and reaction-seeking position.LONELY WOMEN ARE lonely because of strong self-sabotage mechanisms. As a seducer who may encounter virgins, feminists or these type of women, instead of falling into a woman's frame and doing what she wants: have the stronger frame and lead. Instead of playing by her self-sabotage rules and reacting to her, you set the seductive rules and have her react to you.







22







LAW #11: SUMMARYLAW #11: DON'T PLAY THE GAME BY THE RULES THAT SHE SETS.Women will say stupid things and ask questions they don't really want the answer to. If you play along to her perception of how things should be, you might end up fucking yourself instead of fucking her. Ignore, and interrupt these self-sabotage behaviors with a pattern disrupt. Introduce your own non-sequitur conversational piece with such energy that you blast right through her bullshit.







23







LAW #12: HAVE A MATING GAMEPLAN. RELY ON BATTLE-TESTED SKILL - NOT HOPE OR LUCK. PLAY UNFAIR.TECHNIQUE #12: THE FIELD-TESTED LINE, TRANSITIONS AND ROUTINESHave a few memorized lines that you can use at any moment just in case your brain can't think of anything to say to keep a conversation going. Have a default memorized line to use to start the conversation in case your brain freezes and you are lost for words.CREATE A CHEAT-SHEET.Be willing to write down a few topics to talk about into iOS Notes (use bulletpoints - not word-for-word scripts) and glance at them while you are in the midst of the interaction (she will think that you are just checking texts).HAVE A GAMEPLAN.To become more success with women, develop a conscious gameplan. Don't just leave it to chance. Figure out a step-by-step plan of action on what specifically you are going to do in order to have more beautiful women in your life.BE ON THE LOOKOUT FOR GOOD LINES.Every time you leave your home, you have multiple opportunities to initiate conversations with female strangers as you go about your daily life and sharpen your skills. The optimal path is to practice your social and seduction skills on a daily basis as you do simple seemingly mundane things such as shopping for groceries, or even taking out the trash. Remember: you get good at what you do frequently. Often the best lines come from spontaneous conversations.THE BEST ROUTINES come from natural spontaneous conversations. If you have noticed that a specific line has generated results for you then remember it and add it to your pocket of lines; chances are that it will work again! Continuously refine your arsenal of battle-tested, field-proven, non-cheesy lines. 1ROUTINESWhen you have a collection of field-tested lines that you can use one-after-the-other, you'll have a routine.An experienced seducer is able to: stack routines one after another,has a short/long version of each routine,has different routines for different common situations, andhas different routines (content) for different stages in the seduction process. The material that ones uses for the attraction phase (being fun, intriguing and sometimes a bit crazy) should NOT be the kind of material used for emotionally connecting (sharing personal details about yourself).TRANSITIONSPhrases that allow you to bounce from subject to subject. Make some arbitrary random observation about the environment that you are in, and then say: "Oh, this reminds me of the time that I" was walking on the beach in Colombia  Santa Fe... While having a transition isn't essential because one can jump from topic to topic randomly without explaining himself, a transition does create a more smooth, effortless, spontaneous, natural-feeling to conversations.
1 Even if you have memorized effective lines, do not let them substitute for natural spontaneous conversations and natural spontaneous remarks. Memorized lines will eventually run out, but being able to generate lines by yourself will give you an infinite number of things to say at anytime, anyplace with anyone. Do you want to be a robot always putting on a mechanical performance, or a human being enjoying an authentic experiences? One must strive for an optimal balance between a reasonable amount of preparation (with ready-responses for common-contingencies) and on-the-spot improvisation (handling things as they come).







24







LAW #12: SUMMARYLAW #12: HAVE A MATING GAMEPLAN. RELY ON BATTLE-TESTED SKILL - NOT HOPE OR LUCK. PLAY UNFAIR.Fuck playing by the rules of society. Fuck playing by what the culture deems to be "appropriate behavior". Don't be yet another sheep amidst masses of sheep. Think for yourself.IN THE GAME OF LIFE, the man with the plan has a massive advantage over the man who is just winging things on improvisation. Enter the sexual marketplace with clear goals - knowing what you want out of it, and the kind of bullshit you aren't willing to put up with.HAVING field-tested lines that you know WORK (for picking up women) is a better strategy than using random unproven material that you come up with on the spot. The best lines come from burning your bridges, immersing yourself in the field, doing a ton of approaches, and recording statements that you have said that got results. When you have a collection of these statements then you have a refined, tweaked routine in your conversation toolkit that you can shoot.KNOW WHAT YOU WANT. Have a vision. Where do you want to be 5 years from now? Describe your dream girl. CREATE A GAME-PLAN, and daily goals to get there. Stack battle-tested moves/lines (that have worked prior).







25







LAW #13: PACE HER REALITY TO BREAK INTO HER REALITY.TECHNIQUE #13: THE PACE HER REALITY METHODThe powers of observation and being assertively articulate about what you have observed will give you an abundance of sex. The power of observation will make it rain pussy. Get perceptive!! Use situational self-awareness to comment on what is happening in the shared experience between you and her.IF THE ONLY game skill that you develop is the ability to make astute observations (analytical or humorous) then you will still go far with women.GETTING good at making simple observations about: her,the situation,the dynamic between you and her, andother people who are present (people watching).is a valuable ability that will lead to women spreading their legs for the pleasure that you will provide. WHEN YOU SEE A WOMAN, stop for a moment and bring yourself fully into the present moment. LOOK AT HER. Notice at least one thing about her that is striking, or unusual. You will feel a wave of emotion. Ride that emotional wave and speak your mind about that which you have noticed. "I noticed you were...""I couldn't help but see that you are..""You look like..."ALTERNATIVELY, notice at least one odd or interesting thing about the shared environment that you are in. Let that insight sink in; then share it excitedly with the woman that you are with.PACING a woman's reality is a fancy way of describing the experience that she is going through in order to establish yourself as an authority in her world - a voice that dictates reality. Similar to the Yes Ladder and Compliance Momentum, saying a series of true statements leads a woman to believing everything that you say (buying into your frame more and more). PRACTICE YOUR CONVERSATION SKILLS EVERY DAY.Get into the habit of going out of the house to a place where there are women. Approach some of them. Deliver an opening line. Start up conversations. Close the ones that have receptive body-language. You need a consistent way to bring women into your life. This is a necessity.TAKE a moment to observe a female stranger. Notice something that's different about her that strikes you. Make a comment about it. That alone can serve as the basis for your approach. Utilize strong conversation skills to keep the interaction alive after the initial comment.THE SECRET TO overcome general fears about approaching female strange and starting conversations with them is to just do it A TON OF TIMES. It will eventually reach a point where you will be hyper-chill and hitting up random cute girls will be as chill as drinking morning coffee.IF YOU APPROACH women every day: - you will be really good at generating leads, and- your anxiety around starting conversations with female strangers will fade away.You will start to wonder "What the fuss is about? Who would be retarded enough to have anxiety over this?"IF YOU LIVE IN A CITY, you can easily have 5 conversations a day with random people as you go about your day. The skills are easily transferable. If you don't live in a populated area, then fucking move. If you want results, make pickup a PRIORITY.CHOOSE one opening line to start conversations with women. Then verbalize it outloud ten-times. Visualize yourself approaching women, and using that line successfully. Then make that a motherfucking reality, motherfucker! THE SITUATIONAL OBSERVATION OPENER; HOW TO START A CONVERSATION WITH A WOMAN IN A VERY NATURAL WAY.Situational comments are the smoothest and "most natural" type of way to start conversations with female strangers. Making an observation about her and the situation is the easiest way to start a conversation with a female stranger.THIS IS because it taps into something that she is already used to - which is spontaneous conversation.CREATE the illusion that she is different than all the other girls. When you noticed her, you couldn't help but say something to her because you were overwhelmed by the exotic detail that you observed.YOU HAD to go on in a moment but she trapped you in a fun conversation. You only had a few minutes to stay with her in the fun conversation because you have shit to do, but then you found out how awesome she actually is and couldn't help yourself but invite to nearby cool events in your area.SITUATIONAL OPENERS ARE one of the easiest ways to start a conversation. Watch her for a moment and make an insightful observation about her or the situation. Once opened, follow-up with something else. It's simply a matter of pacing her reality and then leading to something else. Pace.Pace.Lead.







26







LAW #13: SUMMARYLAW #13: PACE HER REALITY.Be in the present moment. Take a moment to observe: - her,- the interaction between you& her,- the environment that you are in,&- people around you,What stuck-out as interesting to you? Share the thought outloud.







27







LAW #14: TEACH HER ABOUT HERSELF.TECHNIQUE #14: THE COLD READMaking a cold read (or a warm read) boils down to making an intelligent, insight about her favorite subject: herself. Tell her something about herself that she didn't know before. Give her an insight about her current life's situation that will blow her fucking mind.COLD-READS ARE EXTREMELY effective conversation amplifiers. After all, there is no one in the world that she cares more about except herself. By revealing something about her that she didn't know before you've given her a significant amount of benefit - one that will reciprocated by her giving conversational value of her own to benefit you! TECHNIQUE #14.2: THE DIG DEEPER TACTICListen attentively to what she says - both on an intellectual level and on an emotional level. Then paraphrase what she has already told you in your own words, and go deeper into that subject.WHEN A WOMAN TALKS ABOUT HERSELF, read between-the-lines and understand the implications. Think to yourself: Why is that true?Why is it important?What are the implications and ramifications of what she said?What does that say about who she is?By thinking about these questions and possible answers, you will use your mind to generate insights. Then proceed to share the most interesting of these insights with the women who you are dealing with.
 4 TYPES OF COLD READS YOU CAN USE - Comment on her energy levels. Does she have a lot of energy or is chill and calm?- Comment on her introversion or extroversion. Is she an introvert or an extrovert?- Comment on her accent, and take an educated guess as to where she is from. "You have a strong accent. I can tell that you are from Russia." You can take this a step further, and take a guess about what her age is. Regardless if you are wrong or right, she will be entertained and will wonder what lead you to come to that conclusion.- Comment on her Myers Briggs personality type.







28







LAW #14: SUMMARYLAW #14: TEACH HER ABOUT HERSELF.A woman's favorite subject in the world is herself. And her favorite word is her own name. Share insights about her personality/lifestyle (e.g. cold-reads), and pussy will be never-ending.







29







LAW #15: POLARIZE. PLAY TO A SEXY STEREOTYPE.PLAYING IT SAFE IS PLAYING IT BORING.A man who is edgy is far more interesting and exciting to women than a man who is bland.1Don't try to appeal to every woman in the world because the you will be the ultimate generic guy who doesn't have haters, but also doesn't have lovers. It is better to be loved by some, and hated by some than it is to have indifference by all. Why? Because the indifference response doesn't get you sex. But being loved by some does lead to results in the field.FOCUS ON DEVELOPING one stereotype that is very sexy and tailoring your approaches to the specific demographic women who are into that type of value proposition. A fisherman who specializes in a specific location is more likely to get tastier, bigger fish than a fisherman who will catch fish anywhere. Here are some sexy stereotypes to consider: - a rich business man who wears slick suits and enjoys the high status perks of existence,- a frat-boy rockstar singer who is the life of the party and knows the hottest events in the city,- a spiritual guru who lives a meaningful life of fierce purpose and incredible passion,- a digital nomad who enjoys traveling, exotic adventures and knows the best views in the city,TECHNIQUE #15.1: THE BREAKING SOCIAL NORMS TACTICOne way of doing this is to occasionally break social norms2 (such as screaming, talking to random people who are nearby you, running a prank, or putting on a funny hat like Mystery's cowboy hat). Breaking social norms (doing something controversial that is anti-conforming) will instantly spike a woman's emotions. This secret "break social norms to trigger a woman's emotions" alone is worth the purchase of this book.KEEP in mind that when utilizing this technique of breaking conformity, it's important to be aware of a woman's comfort levels. Take her slightly out of her comfort zone to the point where she feels the excitement of being alive, but not the point where she feels so overwhelmed and has panic attacks - ejecting from the situation as a result. Outgoing women have a higher level of endurance than shy women. If you sense that a woman is very anxious then it would be prudent to focus on building her comfort levels (through pacing reality "I know that this rather odd, and I don't usually do this, but YOLO (pace, pace, lead)" or basic "nice guy game") rather than continuing to spike excitement through the roof.THE PSYCHOPATHIC EDGEFUCK being a sheep brainwashed by the cultural of the times. Think for yourself. While you may look like a sheep to blend in with other sheep, deep down you are a predatory wolf who is extremely aggressive in going after what he wants in life and FUCKS ANYONE WHO GETS IN THE WAY.BE POLARIZING.Stating strong polarizing opinions will instantly make you more interesting. To some extent, it doesn't even matter if you speak the truth or not. What matters is that you evoked an emotional response within her, and provoked conversational investment.DON'T PLAY it safe when you are in conversations with women. Playing it safe is playing it boring. 99/100 of guys say the same safe things that every guy says and that's what makes them boring. Playing it safe is taking the greatest risk of all: being boring. Instead of playing it safe, take calculated risks in conversation. One way of doing this is to take on a polarizing identity.
1 While it is true that you will lose some women in the process of having a polarizing personality, you will gain more women than you lose. This goes back to a concept mentioned earlier: figure out the type of women who you want to fuck, and tailor your game to that demographic. It is better to be loved by some, and hated by some than it is to have everyone indifferent to you. Roger Stone puts this concept nicely in one of the laws of Roget Stone "It is better to be infamous than not be famous at all." When one is able to effectively get attention then he can then utilize that attention for sexual or financial purposes. One who has a polarizing personality simply gets far more attention from women than a man who always plays it safe because he is a pussy conformist still metaphorically living in his mother's womb - terrified of claiming a unique identity. In conclusion: find a sexy stereotype and play that role. This is a superior sexual mating strategy than just being a forgettable average guy who women have seen thousands of times prior.2 For more information, look into the Novelty Effect on RAS







30







LAW #15: SUMMARYLAW #15: POLARIZE.A man who is EDGY is far more interesting and exciting to women than a man who is bland. Playing it safe is playing to lose because safe conversation is BORING. Take calculated risks. Speak with BOLDNESS.







 







31







LAW #16: BE A WOLF IN SHEEP'S CLOTHING.TECHNIQUE #16: THE PROPYou can wear props on yourself that you can use as conversation starters. For instance: holding a book that you are reading, an extravagant necklace or even having a cute dog on a leash. This will give women an excuse to start a conversation, or she may bring it up during a conversation.THE USE of props is similar to peacocking (attention-grabbing clothing) where you bring in items into the field for the purpose of increasing your odds of success. Props are items that bring attention to you; once you have that attention then you can use it to your seductive advantage. Bringing a dog to a park filled with young women (of legal age) is one of the oldest tricks in the book.Riding in an electric skateboard at a camp for older teenagers (18+) and young adults (to age 21) will allow you to quickly work the area for social proof.Renting a Ferrari for dates and IG photos. This tactic in particular of flashing elite social status is incredibly powerful. Tai Lopez took this to an extreme by renting a mansion to film YouTube videos showcasing his "success" and then proceeding to make millions selling his "how to achieve success" courses.FURTHERMORE, the use of props is to make it seem as if you are in the middle of doing something important in your day- rather than specifically going out to the location just to meet women. At a college campus, carrying around a MacBook Pro gives you the plausible deniability that you are a student who is preparing for class and has shit going on. Freshman students will simply assume this; it does not need to be explicitly stated. This makes your approaches seem more natural because they capitalize on the commonality of both being college students - rather than an outsider trying to be a part of the "in crowd".Another example of this, is holding something at a store - as if you are about to buy it - to appear as if you are another store shopper - even though you have specifically entered the store only to pick up women.Wearing religious items at a spiritual organization to meet the beautiful young women who are secretly incredibly horny, and infiltrating social circles through consistently becoming a part of the event attendants (eventually becoming one of the highest ranking members who fucks the newcomers).NEVER UNDERESTIMATE the power of props. Props have massive relevance to sociological forces at play in meeting women in social situations, and banging them in sexually charged situations.USING props is part of a larger principle in the game of life which is to use every resource possible to your advantage. There are no "cheap shots". Use every dirty trick in the book. WIN AT ANY COSTS.







32







LAW #16: SUMMARYLAW #16: BE A WOLF IN SHEEP'S CLOTHING. WIN AT ANY COSTS. TAKE CHEAP SHOTS. A woman makes a split-second status-assessment of a man's status before he even says anything. Dress wealthy, be well groomed, and use props."







33







LAW #17: READ THE SIGNALS.TECHNIQUE #17: THE GAUGEDon't have a conversation blindly. Gauge her responses as you are talking to her by reading her body-language, facial micro-expressions and tonality. When she gets excited over something, you've identified a subject that interests her and you should talk more about that.WHEN SHE GETS BORED, cut the thread and talk about something else. You can even switch subjects mid-sentence. Keep fishing various subjects until you get a hit.YOU SHOULD BE able to detect from her body-language if what you are saying is boring her, or causing her anxiety. As I have mentioned numerous times, dealing with women is not a cookie-cutter, one-size-fits all; you should calibrate based on her body-language responses if you talk more about certain subjects, less about other subjects, or try an entirely new subject.HOW TO TELL if a woman is not interested in a particular subject matter, and it's time to alternate: She will look away - diminishing eye-contact.She will glance at the door.She will give one worded responses like "cool" or her responses will be shorter than what she is used to.Her tonality and volume will go down (lower than her normal Baseline).She will take a step back.Her feet will start to be pointed in a different direction.She will make a slight turn in the opposite direction..Figure out what things in life she is most passionate about. By knowing a lot about these subjects and talking about them, you will come across as far more interesting. Talking about shit she cares about is a fundamental rule towards being a good conversationalist. RELEVANCY IS KEY. After all, you bought this book because it was RELEVANT to an issue that has deep meaning to you; did you not?IT IS ALSO RECOMMENDED to mention a subject briefly before going too deeply into it. For example: if she responds positively to a brief comment about cats then you know that it will be safe to go into a longer monologue about pets.YOU DON'T WANT to take this too far where you start ending statements as if they are questions, and constantly seeking out her approval while saying anything. Do not end statements in a high pitched voice like a little bitch. Talk about a subject that you are passionate about and enjoy - without seeming like you give a fuck if she approves. If you see that she is responding positively to that then keep going. If she isn't, then alternate subjects.IF YOU LAUNCH IMMEDIATELY into a lengthy dialogue about a subject that she doesn't care about, and keep talking about it extensively (despite her body-language signals) then don't be surprised if the interaction ends. Forcing women into a conversation about a subject that they don't care about and having a dull delivery style will kill interactions.IF A WOMAN ISN'T receptive to a particular escalation move, she may choose to send subtle signals rather than outright tell you "DO NOT DO THAT!" because she wants to avoid the uncomfortable, awkward tension with direct verbal confrontation. She may be scared to deliver a direct rejection, so she'll send out subtle signals, imply a frame of "being busy", or come up with a silly excuse. A smart seducer can read these subtle indicators and adjust his game strategy - on the spot - before the situation reaches a point of "no return".IF YOU SLIP up and make a mistake and say/do something silly, don't let it dwindle your confidence levels. It's normal to make mistakes, and women intuitively sense that. A confident man shrugs it off playfully (as if barely noticed it), and moves forward. The key is to retain calm, in-control composure at all times - even during common flinch points. THE COMPLIANCE LADDERIf you throw a frog into a boiling tea pot, it will jump off. But if you gently put a frog into a warm tea pot and slowly increase the temperature then it will eventually burn to death. Women are similar in this regard; don't come on too strong and get blown-out. Test the waters. Gauge her eagerness. If you see highly receptive body-language, then start escalating at a reasonable pace at high points in the interaction and with time you will eventually get everything.EVEN IF A WOMAN rejected you initially, you can still approach her at a later date - so don't take any rejection as final. In this game, rejection is very common - even among veteran seducers - so having thick skin is paramount. Just like there is a large % of women who you wouldn't want to fuck, so too women view a large % of men as un-fuckable.KEEP in mind that even 99 woman rejected you, but the final 100th turned out to be a fuck buddy then it was all worth it in the end - and you had 99 opportunities to sharpen your skills to be ready for the woman who is worthy. Approaching is simply a matter of finding out if a woman has a good taste. Regardless if you get the girl or not, you still benefited by having some time to practice your conversation skills on her. ADVANCED NOTE: What is interesting to you may be boring to others. Further, what is interesting to one woman may be boring to another. This is why taking in real-time social feedback and calibrating accordingly is of paramount importance. Without reading body-language, you are essentially playing chess blindfold and hoping that a cookie-cutter plan will work on everyone in all situations.
 LET'S apply the same concept to the business field...GAUGING IS RELEVANT TO THE BUSINESS FIELD AS WELL.It does not matter what your opinion is about a product. It does not matter what your dad says about it. The only thing that matters is how the marketplace responds. Let the numbers do the talking.SOMETIMES YOU'LL SEE a product that you think is complete shit. You wonder to yourself "Why the fuck would I bother listing this on eBay (to dropship from Amazon, Sears, Kmart, HomeDepot, or Walmart) if it's worse than human feces? I would NEVER buy this in a million years?" Yet, eBay Sold Listings reveal that it's selling like hot-cakes.SOMETHING THAT IS BORING to you may be wildly entertaining to women, and vice-versa.







34







LAW #17: SUMMARYLAW #17: TEST AND READ THE SIGNALS.PROTECT YOURSELF FROM WASTING TIME by testing a woman's receptiveness to sexual advances, relatively early on. Gauge the effectiveness of certain moves & topics before doubling down. If necessary, go fishing.







35







LAW #18: BE WILLING TO COMPROMISE A WOMAN'S EGO. PISS HER OFF - IF NECESSARY.TECHNIQUE #18: THE NEG, TEASE AND PUSH/PULL.Sometimes indirectly insulting a woman is the best way to keep the conversation going and prevent her the girl from exiting the conversation. When a woman's ego is on the line, she suddenly becomes highly emotionally engaged and verbally invested into a conversation with you.NEGS ARE INDIRECT INSULTS. They work because women are attracted to some level of psychological abuse from men. Sometimes attacking her ego is the best way to get her emotionally engaged in the conversation. A woman will want to keep her self-image positive, so she'll verbally respond so that she can fix the perception that she has of herself. Negs are not obvious insults because that would only trigger a woman to respond with an insult of her own and then eject from the situation (unless she has low self-esteem and a verbally abusive childhood - in which case, she'll stick around).YOU WOULDN'T WATCH a movie where the protagonist had no problems because then it would be boring AF. You watch the movie because you want to see how the climax is resolved. A good conversation has to contain EXCITEMENT spikes. If there is not tension then there will be boredom. When you add a bit of conflict that compromises her self-esteem, a woman will stay in the interaction to resolve the conflict and regain her self-esteem back; this buys you time to convey personality and generate attraction through the medium of conversation.THE PROXIMITY EFFECTAccording to science, the more time a woman spends with you, the more attracted she will become.HENCE, it is not prudent to overwhelm a woman by showing too much interest too fast and escalating too hard right away. While men are attracted to the visual and physicality, woman are more attracted to the auditory and a man's personality. The latter takes time to reveal. This is why men are instantly attracted to a woman (like a light-switch), but women necessitate a greater time period to fall in love with a man (like a volume knob). This explains the popular Russian saying "A woman falls in love with her ears."IF YOU HAVE ACCIDENTALLY SHOWED a woman too much unreciprocated interest - creating uncomfortable tension (chasing a cat makes it run away, but slowly escalating and giving tons of value: keeps the cat intrigued), then negging will achieve the desired push/pull effect. One can balance high interest levels by flashing some disinterest. As time expands, she will become more and more attracted to you - allowing you to increase the intensity of escalation.BALANCE TAKING action with being patient and the world will be yours. How you play the seduction game, is how you play every game.INDIRECT GAME WILL BUY you more time to attract a woman and have her addicted to your personality than being direct. That being said, indirect game is NOT being the friend for weeks (or in some idiot's case: months). Indirect game is often just 10 minutes of having normal, fun conversation - designed to intrigue a woman into being with you - before conveying sexual/romantic intentions.ADVANCED NOTES ON NEGGING:Negs and teases are flirting tactics that will create frustration in a woman, but it is the kind of frustration that works for you - rather than against you. Even if you get a verbally negative response from a woman, don't be alarmed; this is actually a positive sign because it shows that she cares enough to respond to you. A negative emotion from a woman is preferable than silence and apathy, because the former can be reversed but the latter is doomed to fail. Hence, it is better to risk being offensive and being too bold than playing it safe and walking on egg-shells with women. When in doubt, err on the side of boldness for one can recover from an initial negative response from a woman, but one can seldom recover from being ignored entirely.THIS DOESN'T MEAN that you should be a complete asshole; pushing this too far will backfire and women may end up in self-sabotage mode to preserve an insecure ego. In the game of seduction it is often necessary to balance contradictory elements. For instance: One must balance being an action-taker with being patient.One must balance working on himself and living his personal life to the fullest - while finding the time to meet/be-with women.One must balance being bold and crazy fun, with appearing to be a mature individual.One must balance showing sexual intentions with not being needy. One must balance interest with disinterest.HAVING a girlfriend does not mean you should stop developing your social and seduction skills. Nor does it mean that you should stop being social. Keep your skills sharp by approaching every day; always be flirting. Every day is an opportunity for growth. MAKE TODAY COUNT.NICE GUYS, SHUT THE FUCK UP and be more edgy. Being politically correct and having nice conversations
doesn't trigger sexual attraction; it just puts women to sleep. Learn to tease, neg, playfully challenge and use shock humor.TEASINGThis is poking fun of women in a funny way. If she has some eccentric or quirky behavior then make fun of her for it. Teasing is the bedrock of flirting because it entices a woman to tease you back (creating a visceral compulsion to playfully fight for social power that almost compels her to keep interacting with you). If she punches you in the shoulder and laughs, you're doing it right.NEGGINGThis is subtly insulting a woman to compromise her ego, and get her emotionally/verbally engage into the conversation. If you go too far, be prepared to implement a good damage-recovery behavioral response. If she rushes to qualify and explain herself to you, you're doing it right. Keep in mind that NOT all personality types can pull this off successfully, as it requires a high degree of courage, confidence, and social savviness.PUSH/PULLThis is alternating between statements of interest and disinterest. By switching back and forth between hot and cold, you keep women hooked to being with you and intensify their emotional state.SHOCK HUMORThis is saying something incredibly outlandish and radically bold. Then taking it back with a simple "I was just kidding" or "I was being sarcastic"; then immediately continuing the conversation - as if what just happened was not a big deal to you. WHEN NEGGING IS BEING USED ON YOUWomen can use humor, "constructive" criticism, and "positive intentions" to disguise blatant manipulation and Power Grabs. These women will make Power Grabs (such as these) to establish themselves as higher in relative social status, get their ego validated and feel important.ONCE THESE WOMEN get relative social power, they become disgusted by the men who gave up their self-respect and power. The insight here is simple: women desire men that are more powerful than them. Even a savage feminist seeks out a more competent man who is higher than her in subjective social status - both relative to her and relative to society's standards of success. TO ATTRACT beautiful women into your life it's imperative to: - seize social status immediately,- create the frame that YOU ARE THE PRIZE IN THE INTERACTION,- avoid exuding an apologetic or doubtful self-image,- ALWAYS have powerful, dominant body-language, - ALWAYS retain Walk Away Power by having multiple women in your orbit,- behave like a KING,- dress like you're wealthy,- avoid peasant and low status behaviors that indicate that you are a man of inferior social standing,- avoid dressing average,- avoid worshipping women,THERE'S a lot more key behaviors than I'm including in this chapter, but to summarize they follow one basic guiding principle.SEIZE SOCIAL POWER, and retain it. Women think they want social power, but quickly lose respect and attraction to a man who gives away his power. YOU ARE A 10, SO FUCKING ACT LIKE IT.  FOUR DEADLY MISTAKES TO AVOID AT ALL COSTS.I.YOUR FIRST MISTAKE was thinking that she was an angel of moral purity - without an agenda of her own.II.SECONDLY, allowing for minor behaviors of disrespect lead to major behaviors of disrespect - which ultimately killed her attraction and appreciation of your high worth.III.THIRDLY, you didn't know what you wanted out of the connection. You entered into a frame of friendship - instead of establishing a Rated R flirtatious frame from the start. You waited too long to make a move - playing perpetual indirect game and wasting time in the process. Women don't respect men that don't go after what they want - in a sexual medium; be physically aggressive in bed. Whip it out and fuck her HARD.IV.Your fourth mistake was not keeping a rotation of other beautiful women or maintaining an active social life. She was the only source of sex, and female energy in your life - which led to oneitis, and an imbalance of power. You lost "walkaway power" and she had you by the balls. WOMEN DESIRE POWERFUL
MEN.WHEN YOU YIELD power to her, you ironically self-sabotage the connection in the long-term. She might get an immediate ego-boost, but sexual attraction is compromised in the long term. Further, by developing the habits of a simp soy-boy (even for the sake of a particular woman), you compromise your general sexual market value for women in general.WHEN YOU DON'T ALLOW a woman's pussy turn you into a beta male, you'll stop pedestalizing her, and start valuing yourself. Ironically, putting yourself FIRST attracts more women than putting a woman FIRST. Why? Because: WOMEN VALUE MEN THAT VALUE THEMSELVES. 4 EXAMPLES OF THE EASIEST TYPE OF NEG TO USE: A BACKHANDED COMPLIMENT You remind me of that movie star... Woody Allen.I think it's great that you are so confident, you can go outside in whatever you want regardless of what's in style.I dig the way you give up fashion for comfort.You're cute, in a dorky way.







36







LAW #18: SUMMARYLAW #18: COMPROMISE A WOMAN'S EGO IF NECESSARY.A woman who feels apathetic will not be receptive to a having a conversation. Attack what is precious to her - her ego - either playfully (teasing) or seriously (negging) and she'll be hooked.







37







LAW #19: HIJACK HER BRAIN. DISARM; THEN ATTACK.TECHNIQUE #19: THE TRANCE WORDWhenever she shares information about herself, pay attention and remember it. It is fodder that you can use to build a conversation. Further, by listening carefully she leaves clues on how she is to be seduced and the type of man that is interested in a sexual relationship for the long term, or sexually in the short term. If this particular woman is important to you for the long term then pay attention to create a mental blueprint of what works on her specifically.HER VALUES, interests and beliefs are AMMUNITION that you can use to advance the interaction forward.IF YOU NOTICE that a woman continuously uses a certain keyword or keyphrase then implement these trance words into your vocabulary for your communication to have greater resonance with her.A
TRANCE WORD is a word that puts a woman into an emotional state because of the personal meaning that she has attached to it.FOR EXAMPLE: generally speaking the trance words "fucking awesome" and "that is incredible!" tend to put women in a positive emotional state. In contrast, the words "feces", "roaches", and "toilet" tend to trigger disgust and should be avoided.IT GOES without saying that a seducer should not mention disgusting subjects when interacting with women - like "I need to take a shit." This shows poor social skills, lack of class, and implies that you are still a low status man. Language should be used to uplift those around you - not repel them by discussing creepy ("check out my knife collection!"), weird, socially awkward, or gross things. A high status man networks with the educated elite, has a certain classy refined character and a level of morals.THE WORDS that you use have an emotional impact on others and even yourself; therefore it is wise to be selective about your choice of words. You relationship with yourself leads to a better relationship with others. If you use positive self-talk and positive word choices to be motivated in life then you are likely to do the same when interacting with others.ADVANCED NOTES: The biggest Trance Word is her name. Her name is her favorite word in the world.HOW TO GET A WOMAN TO TRUST YOUNothing will get a woman to trust you faster than by revealing that you are a G-d fearing individual who is religious - at least to a certain extent. That being said, this should not be entirely faked because women have an intuition (read: sixth sense) that will eventually detect any bullshit - especially if you enter a relationship with her (she will find out who you truly are sooner or later).WHILE ONE CAN FAKE a certain personality long enough to have sex with a woman, it may not be sufficient to keep a woman around for a long-term relationship. For the long term, you have to be the real deal - not just a juggler filled with tricks, lines and a deceptive alter ego.THAT BEING SAID, one should still strive to be the best version of himself every day.
A woman's purpose is to motivate a man to reach his full potential in life. The traits that women find attractive in a man - assertive, outgoing, wealthy, leader of men, traveling adventurer, fiery life purpose - happen to be things that you should want to have anyways for your own sake.THERE IS MORE to life than just pussy. Consider adopting a meaningful purpose to existence. When all is said and done, what do you want your life to mean?HOW TO OVERCOME STRANGER DANGER, AND MAKE A WOMAN FEEL COMPLETELY COMFORTABLE WHEN YOU APPROACH HER - SO THAT YOU'VE ALREADY WON THE GIRL BEFORE YOU EVEN SAY ANYTHING.The cold approach is a way to meet women but its disadvantage is that you start from scratch when you walk up to a woman. She doesn't know anything about you, and you have a limited amount of time to convey highly attractive traits/features about yourself - enough for her to want to give out her personal information for a Day Two.THIS IS ASSUMING THAT: you have the game skills to overcome the initial uncomfortable experience that women feel when a strange man approaches them on these the street (with a rapid-fire series of brilliantly cunning techniques),the balls to disregard social norms in the first place,the smoothness to be seen as relatively normal,the charm to spark attraction, andthe brazenness to have DOMINANT, POWERFUL BODY-LANGUAGE throughout the process.Yes, one could get laid this way and learn a fuck ton about the game along the way, but it's not a beginner friendly method. One doesn't get a gold medal for making things harder than they have to be - especially if there are far easier ways (and more time efficient ways) of meeting women such as joining a dance, yoga, meditation, or spiritual social club. Do you want ego validation points from random dudes, or do you want to get sexual ecstasy?IF YOU SAY "YEAH, but I don't have the time for that" then GO FUCK YOURSELF BECAUSE YOUR HAND IS ALL THAT YOU WILL HAVE. This isn't your "press a button and pussy falls from the sky" kind of book. Yes, it takes WORK to have beautiful women in your life. It takes HUSTLE. So man the FUCK UP, and EMBRACE THE GRIND LIFESTYLE.COMPARE street pickup to building a strong social circle in a college campus social club, or starting your own social club in a college campus. You infiltrate the group, bring a ton of value, and eventually become the highest ranking member in that group. When a cute 18 year old freshman comes in for the first time to a party that the social club is throwing, you already have built-in social proof, perceived high status, and a massive logistical advantage. You get the girl before you even say anything - as long as you don't have any kind of weird quirks or blind spots that are fucking you up (consult with peer network of successful men who get laid by showing them hidden camera footage of your interactions with women (where legal)). The point is this: create the conditions where an approach is the most likely to succeed because sexual mating strategy is a long term play even more than it is a series of short term plays. Being the forum's most successful pickup artist is not the end goal.IN THE GAME OF SEDUCTION, the end goal is to create a set of conditions where you are considered to be so attractive that women will approach you. Or at the very least, when you approach a beautiful women then she will be highly receptive because your positive reputation preceded you. These conditions are created by becoming a high ranking member in a niche that women value - such as spirituality, yoga, meditation, travel. Don't be a fucking idiot starting from scratch every day; utilize prior successes to build better approach conditions for the future.







38







LAW #19: SUMMARYLAW #19: DISARM A WOMAN FULLY. THEN ATTACK.Use sociological, logistical factors, and trance words to maximize leverage before you even approach. Gain a woman's trust by revealing a spiritual and altruistic side to yourself. Then ATTACK.IN THE IDEAL SCENARIO, actually be spiritual - so as using that side of you to gain the trust of women is not "fake" but rather an extension of one of the facets of your personality; after all, women can sense bullshit fakery a mile away.USE LAW#19 with discretion and be ethically prudent. Do not reveal it to blue-pilled men or they may condemn you as evil. If positing this tactic on the internet, remain anonymous.







39







LAW #20: LEAVE JUICY BAIT.TECHNIQUE #20: USE BOLD LANGUAGE.Good entertainers embellish the truth, use emotionally charged words, display personality and inject emotion into their words. They don't sound like robots citing a memorized script. Conversation is a medium to convey a sexy personality.END EVERYTHING you say with a bold, provoking remark to make it easy for her to respond back with her own remark then look expectantly for her to contribute to the conversation, while keeping eye-contact. Making a bold remark, creating a vacuum with silence (because you stop talking after the bold remark is finished) and then keeping eye-contact to imply that you expect her to contribute: will lead to a woman contributing to the conversation. Seducer: "I can tell that you are a college freshman."Seducer: *stops talking and holds eye-contact - implying the frame that the conversation is still ongoing*Woman: "What makes you say that?"YOU WILL NOTICE that generally speaking bolder language generates more emotions and conversational investment from women.COMPARE SAYING: "this is coffee is good" with"this is the BEST FUCKING TASTING COFFEE that I have ever tasted in my life!"VISUALIZE YOURSELF AS THE WOMAN; which of these remarks would get you more emotionally invested and engaged into the conversation? The latter is a superior form of communication because it generates an impulsive conversational reaction in women and is easier to respond to.TECHNIQUE #20.1: leave juicy bait.A good conversationalist makes it easy for women to respond to him by: using bait (enticing teasers that women will be tempted to inquire about; if you casually mention just coming back from London then a woman will inquire about that; if you make a mysterious cold-read about her personality that she doesn't fully understand then she'll ask you to explain it - thus falling deeper into a conversation with you),talking about trending, high-demand, hot subjects that women generally find highly interesting (discussing Algebra will most likely put women to sleep, but talking about the 2021 election clown-show debate leads to a lively verbal response),triggering visceral emotions ("No one texts faster than an angry woman.", andultra bold language (that is triggering to the point where a woman almost can't stop herself from responding - falling into the seducer's frame in the process), and if all else failsnegging (by making a statement that compromises a woman's ego - either playfully or "accidentally", she will use verbally respond to defend herself so that she can continue to feel important. Keep in mind that negs are "throw and go"; if they come across an insult then a woman will either eject from the interaction or insult you back and then eject. The incorrect use of negs can lead to a verbal harassment charge, so be smart).BAITING.Make having a conversation with you EASY. She shouldn't have to strain herself to come up with something to reply back to you; it should ideally flow naturally. One way to do this is to leave "tempting bait" in what you are saying.YOU'LL FIND that when a girl likes you, it's much easier to hold down a conversation because she's contributing on her part and leaving enticing "conversation bait" - to make it tempting for you to keep talking to her.







40







LAW #21: SUMMARYLAW #20: LEAVE JUICY BAIT.Become tempting. Make intriguing statements without explaining them. End each conversation piece with a bold, provoking remark; then use eye-contact to create the frame that it's her turn to talk.







 







41







LAW #21: BE THE MONSTER. BE RUTHLESSLY PRAGAMATIC. SPEAK LIKE A PROPHET.TECHNIQUE #21: SPEAK WITH ULTRA CONVICTION.Having INTENSE CONVICTION in what you are saying will make you twice as interesting. You want to speak as if you are a prophet and OWN EVERYTHING YOU SAY BY EXUDING 100% CERTAINTY. Talk with the frame that what you have to say holds tremendously high worth. Women can sense a man's level of confidence (or lack of) from his tone of voice.HOW YOU VIEW yourself is how women will view you. If you unconsciously believe that what you are saying doesn't hold much worth then it will come across in your communications; however, if you believe that you are gold and your words are pure gold, then subtle nuances will reveal this sexy confidence.IF YOU HAVE strong verbal body-language then women will take what you say seriously. However, if you start conversations with women with the body language of a weak soy-boy (timid, nervous, shy, reserved, submissive, supplicate, fearfully) then you will either be ignored or not taken seriously.STUDY charismatic famous speakers who get on stage. When they talk, they talk as if they are 100% certain that what they are saying is absolute truth, and what they are saying holds tremendous worth. This is how they are able to sway large crowds of people. In Donald Trump's case this is how he got elected.7 WAYS TO APPEAR MORE CONFIDENT: - Minimize extra, unnecessary words that take up space but communicate nothing. This is similar to the productivity tip of removing unnecessary action from your life.- Get rid of filler words such as "umm..." and "uhh". These words just take up space, but don't actually contribute any value. If anything, they remove the impact of what you are saying because they reveal the insecurity that the person you are dealing with will leave you if you pause for too long.- Kill self-doubt words such as "maybe, probably, I think" that make you sound less confident. You don't need to say things like "In my opinion" because that's already apparent. You would be better served by having a dosage of cockiness and speaking as if you are 100% certain that what you are saying is the FINAL TRUTH. This is far sexier to women than a nerd who utilizes the words like "in the vast majority of cases, the probability of X occurring is high enough for the notion to be taken seriously."Aim for maximum emotional impact; "X is REAL!!!"- Achieve maximum impact by embellishing the message and dialing it up to be polarizing. A man who is controversial will get far more attention, and verbal engagement than the man who is too terrified to break social norms.- Speak loudly, holding eye-contact, with a deep tonality, taking pauses when necessary, and touching the person on the shoulder to emphasize points. If you don't have strong body-language, women won't take you seriously.- Develop a confident, loud, dominant, deep tonality. Study politicians who speak with absolute certainty. Women can tell if you are confident just by the way that you talk; a man's tonality reveals a lot about him.- Be articulate. Don't stutter, suddenly drop the ball or ramble incoherent gibberish. Speak clearly. If people ever have to ask you "what?" Then that's a strong sign that you aren't speaking clearly enough (which communicates low self-confidence) and it's killing the dominant frame that you should be establishing from the very start.CONFIDENT MEN BELIEVE that what they have to say holds tremendous value and therefore they say it in a manner that can be easily heard by others BE THE MONSTER.A guy who approaches a beautiful woman with nervousness and timidness has already lost before he even opens his mouth.A woman can intuitive sense a man's confidence (or lack of). You have to be a metaphorical MONSTER - conveying absolute strength, and pure self-belief in yourself. A MONSTER is ruthlessly pragmatic.Contrary to Hollywood movies, being nervous and shy isn't "cute"; it is absolutely repulsive to woman because it comes off as insecure. The nerd doesn't "eventually get the girl". It is the SAVAGE MONSTER who wins the game of seduction and the game of life - in general. BE ALPHA.BE ASSERTIVE.BE OUTGOING - NOT SHY.TAKE CONTROL OF SOCIAL AND SEXUAL INTERACTIONS.TAKE CHARGE OF YOUR LIFE, AND GO INTO SITUATIONS KNOWING WHAT YOU WANT.WALK AWAY FROM PEOPLE WHO WASTE YOUR TIME.







42







LAW #21: SUMMARYLAW #21: BE RUTHLESSLY PRAGMATIC. BE A MONSTER.How you view yourself is how women will view you. If you believe what you have to say is valuable, women will fall into that frame and listen to you talk. Speak like a prophet.







43







LAW #22: SPIN WOMEN LIKE YOU SPIN PLATES. KEEP THINGS FRESH.TECHNIQUE #22: THE MULTI-THREADYour conversations with women should involve multiple subjects1. Instead of pursuing each subject until its very end in a linear path - like reading a single thread - it is better to implement multi-threading. Spin multiple plates of conversations, just like you spin various plates of women in your life.THIS TECHNIQUE IS a life-savor because you will NOT run out of things to talk about with women. As soon as one subject of conversation is about to die, you still have a couple of other subjects that are still hanging in the air - waiting to be grasped again.IF YOU ONLY HAVE ONE subject of conversation with a woman and that one subject ends then you are fucked because there is nothing else left to discuss. However, if you had 3 other topics that you were juggling then you'll just go to them instead of ending the interaction. STAYING TOO long in a specific subject may lead to it growing stale or dead. For instance: you can only talk about how amazing the environment is for so long before there is nothing further to say about the subject. When a subject of conversation starts to get boring, move on to the next topic to keep things fresh, and exciting.STAYING TOO long on a particular subject can kill the interaction because sooner or later that particular topic will become "fully mined to empty". Then because you have nothing else being discussed on the table and nothing enticing that she can grab unto, the conversation will naturally die.JUST LIKE YOU spin conversational plates, spin women. When you have multiple women in your life then you are less likely to exude neediness, desperation, or imply negative social proof.
1 This goes back to the concept of assuming familiarity and a level of intimacy with the woman who you are interested in. By behaving AS IF you are already close to a woman, it leads to that reality actually becoming created. People that are close to each other have conversations that span multiple subjects - not just a single subject. Replicate that behavior right off the bat.







44







LAW #22: SUMMARYLAW #22: SPIN WOMEN LIKE YOU SPIN PLATES.Have multiple women in your life to create an internalized perception of abundance. A man with options exudes a sexy "I DON'T GIVE A FUCK" demeanor that TURNS WOMEN ON.Women can intuitively sense if you have no one else in your life, and nothing else going on. If a woman senses that you have no one else in your life then it's a huge turn off because women expect successful men that have other women around them. Men imply negative or positive social proof through their actions. When you have real options in your life, you'll unconsciously communicate this and it will spark attraction.Internalizing abundance, by actually having other women in your life, is the optimal path because the brain wants proof not promises.







45







LAW #23: BE DYNAMIC. BE EMOTIONALLY EXPRESSIVE - NOT EMOTIONALLY REACTIVE.MINDSET #23: HAVE VARIED DELIVERY.Get rid of the formal and monotone voice. It's as painful to women as a man scratching his fingernails against a chalkboard.HAVE A VARIED DELIVERY: - emphasize certain words,- emphasize key phrases,- vary your pace, tonality and volume,- utilize hand gestures to emphasize points,- implement facial expressions,THE WAY that you say something determines if people listen eagerly or space out.  Being predictable is being boring. Vary your delivery style and you'll be far more interesting to women. You can have great content, but if your delivery style is boring then women will be bored.
IF YOU HAVE difficulty in sustaining conversations with people in general then this may be a sign that your delivery style is off. Watching TV Show hosts can be a fast way to learn how to talk in a manner that gets people hooked into your every word. Notice how certain public speakers - like Tony Robbins - can talk for hours and you'll still be entertained. It's not their words that keep you hooked, as much as their energy, and dynamic way of giving over the information.HOW TO INSTANTLY IMPROVE YOUR COMMUNICATION STYLE WITH JUST ONE SIMPLE HACK: THE "EXPLOSIVE"Adding emphasis on certain words makes you far more interesting as a communicator. Compare both of these ways of speaking, and see which one is more IMPACTFUL: "I absolutely love drinking coffee.I absolutely LOVE... [pause] drinking coffee."The latter is far more entertaining to listen to. You can this a step up by polarizing it with taboo words. "I absolutely LOVE... [pause] drinking coffee.""I absolutely FUCKING... [pause] LOVE... [pause] drinking coffee."These changes are simple and easy to implement but they can have a HUGE IMPACT. The point is this: add emphasis to certain words when talking to women - even if the words that you decide to emphasize are relatively arbitrary.HYPERBOLEEmbellishing with hyperboles is also a powerful tactic to be more interesting when communicating with others. View yourself as a listener and visualize someone talking to you. Compare these two statements and ask yourself "Which one of these would spark more intrigue?": "I have a relatively above average size dick.""I have the BIGGEST DICK YOU HAVE EVER SEEN."







46







LAW #24: ENTER INTO A TALKATIVE STATE. EMBRACE THE FLOW.When you are in a talkative state of mind, the right things to say will naturally come to you. This is a mental state that is conducive to being a talker. One can enter into this mental state through warming up by engaging in brief interactions with other people.THE RECENCY PRINCIPLEOne of the important principles to master in starting conversations is the principle of RECENCY. This is where you are mention that the subject of conversation just happened to you so that it doesn't appear like you are trying too hard to start a conversation. Using recency makes the seducer appear spontaneous.For example, ask yourself which one of these remarks sound smoother: - "Last night, I binge watched an entire season of The Game of Thrones" or- "I binge watched an entire season of The Game of Thrones."The former appears more natural because it implements the regency principal. Cool, social guys like to talk about things that just happened to them; it's an extroverted behavior. They talk because they want to "get something off their chest", share a recent experience with someone and enjoy the present moment.In contrast, the latter is someone who appears to be putting in a conscious effort to start up a conversation.It's better to appear natural, spontaneous and in-the-moment. Something so awesome just happened to you that you JUST HAVE TO share it with someone! More examples: - "You wouldn't believe what just happened to me..."- "On my way here, I had the strangest realization..."- "Did you see the fight outside?"- "Last night the craziest thing happened to me."WHY IS RECENCY IMPORTANT?It's normal to want to talk about the current exciting events in your life. You're so excited about what you're going through that you can't help but share it with the world! Further, describing your situation to others has a therapeutic effect, and helps one gain perspective on his life. On the other hand, starting conversations about events that have transpired years ago:1 creates the impression that you are trying hard to entertain her. Women might be entertained by pathetic, eager-to-please clowns, but they don't fuck them. He who tries hard, dies hard.Appear effortless.Don't reveal knowledge of game. Reveal red pill concepts, to brainwashed blue-pilled people at your own peril.Don't make it seem like you prepared a lot for her. Appear natural and unplanned.Don't seem like you have an intense agenda. Appear like you're just having fun. This is very disarming for women.Don't seem like you're trying too hard to gain rapport because it comes across as needy, desperate and implies negative social proof. A high-status man who has many options with women is used to beauty and doesn't need to bend over backwards to attract one into his life; beautiful women intuitively grasp this concept and expect a high status man to have standards, have healthy expectations, and to a certain extent be psychologically aloof.ANOTHER REASON WHY YOU SHOULD NOT BE A TRY-HARDBeing raw, uncensored and having fun in the present moment and when you go out for outings is more sustainable for meeting women in the long term than excessively meticulously planning and being overly self-conscious every time that you talk to her. Introverts in particular can sometimes get to paralysis and be trapped due to overthinking. Intelligent guys take notes: don't overcomplicate things to the point of paralysis. When you are in the field, keep it simple.Pickup should be fun! Have a good time! Don't make it painful by being overly self-critical, neurotic, OCD, anxious about being judged, or self-conscious.By entering into talkative state, you'll naturally say the right things in conversation. Talkative state is a certain state of mind that is conducive to being a conversationalist. One is able to enter this state of mind by warming up and doing some socializing.BRIEF NOTE ON TEXTING:Practical application: when you get a text from a woman, don't take 5-10 minutes to ponder the best possible response that you can send her. This is a waste of your time and psychological energy. It takes away the fun of the interaction and turns it into a chess match.FURTHER: it can take more energy to remember to text her back than it takes to just text her back as soon as you read it. You are far better served by just responding instantly as soon as you read her text than having to exert unconscious energy to remember in your mind to text her later and unconsciously working on the "most clever, value-giving" text back. I advise not looking at your phone's texts until you ready to interact with women, so that you aren't put in a situation where you read texts, can't respond right away, postpone it for later, and then have your mind waste its energy.WHEN YOU HAVE genuine fun in the field, you will be much more motivated to go out and interact with women (sustaining motivation in the long-term) than if you view it as a painful chore and a dangerous minefield.A GOOD APPROACH APPEARS LIKE "IT JUST HAPPENED".A good approach appears natural and spontaneous - not planned. A good pickup should not look like a pickup. A good pickup appears as if you are in the middle of doing something important, but you happened to notice something about her that overwhelmed you so much that you "couldn't stop yourself" from sharing that thought.AFTER ALL, you are a highly social outgoing guy. You enjoy talking to people and meeting new people - as you go about your daily life. Even if you don't "get the girl", you still got an enjoyable experience that uplifted your spirits and made your day more awesome.AFTER TALKING to her for a bit, she ended up being so cool that you exchanged numbers so that you can invite her to fun events in the area that you are going to anyways because you have an exciting and fun lifestyle.
1 Remember exciting events that have happened to you - even if they happened years ago. Then share them with women as if you're going through them now. By talking passionately about something that "you're going through" you're allowing a woman to live through an adventure - just by listening to you talk. Movie entertainment is a 100 billion dollar industry for a reason; stories are powerful tools to captivate attention - whether it's male or female.







47







LAW#24: SUMMARYLAW #24: ENTER INTO A TALKATIVE STATE. EMBRACE THE FLOW.Enter into a certain mental state of mind that is conducive to being good at conversation. This mental state of mind is achieved through warming up through simple interactions with people.







48







LAW #25: EXPRESS - NOT IMPRESS.Appear effortless in your conversations. You want to accomplish much without appearing like you are trying to accomplish anything at all. Impress without coming across as if you are trying to impress. Speaking should come from a position of self-expression ("I'm so excited about this idea that I want to share it!) - rather than from an insecure position of trying to impress ("Hey!! Look at me!! Look at what I can do!! Do you like me now?).REMEMBER THE MAXIMS: "He who tries hard, dies hard.""In any social interaction, the one who is trying less has greater social power.""In any social interaction, the one who is reacting more to the other has less social power." Be one acts - not reacts.Be self-amused - not a dancing monkey entertainer.THE IRONY IS that it takes a lot of effort to appear effortless. As mentioned in LAW #24, one way to appear effortless is to ride the waves of emotion, being spontaneous, and entering a "talkative flowing zone". When you enter the zone, you almost lose yourself and just enjoy the present moment.Speak your train of thought - as the thoughts come into your mind - without putting in too much effort into "coming up with the perfect thing to say". This will create this sexy authentic, raw experience of connecting with the REAL YOU - rather a version of you that is carefully crafted from moment to moment.BEAUTIFUL WOMEN ARE USED to men throwing themselves at them. Showing too much interest slots you into the category of "yet another desperate, needy guy who kisses ass", yet showing not enough interest leads to the friend-zone. The key is not start small, test the waters (seeing how receptive she is to your moves) and then escalate the vibe based on where she's at. SHOW INTENT, but don't be needy, clingy, or show signs of desperation in conversation.Be self-amused; you aren't her personal slave clown born to entertain her. Talk about things that you enjoy yourself. The key mindset is: EXPRESS - NOT IMPRESS. You aren't trying to impress her by talking; your talking is simply a matter of self-expression.







49







LAW #25: SUMMARYLAW #25: EXPRESS - NOT IMPRESSEXPRESS - NOT IMPRESS. He who tries hard, dies hard. In any interaction, the one who is trying harder than the other has less social power. Focus on self-amusement rather than being a dancing monkey entertainer. 







 







50







LAW #26: WOMEN ARE DISGUSTED BY WEAK MEN. START INTERACTIONS WITH STRENGTH AND BOLDNESS.START INTERACTIONS WITH DOMINANCE AND STRENGTH.How a relationship starts sets the frame for the entire relationship. The same is true on a micro scale: how an interaction starts sets the tone for the entire interaction (and eventually the ensuing sexual relationship). Establish dominance from the very beginning. This is a superior method to engaging in the sexual marketplace than starting from a position of submission and then trying to reverse from there.At the early phase of the pickup, you are trying to bypass the defenses that a woman may have to starting a conversation with a stranger on the street. One way of doing this is by having a strong frame ("I AM 100% CONFIDENT THAT WHAT I AM DOING IS COOL") and by having very strong, confident body-language (see the checklist below).STARTS CONVERSATIONS WITH WOMEN LIKE A KING - NOT A PEASANT.This can be accomplished by avoiding behavioral patterns that trigger auto-pilot rejection such as: speaking too quietly,dressing like a homeless guy, oropening in a submissive manner.STARTING a conversation with a female stranger requires a certain level of assertiveness, dominance and aggression. Your first move should be one of strength and boldness.If you attempt to start a conversation in a shy, timid manner then you may end up being ignored entirely. This is especially true in a city like NY where women are used to being hustled by beggars begging for money.YOU MUST ENTER HER WORLD ON A STRONG NOTE. Be loud.Be dominant.Hold eye-contact.Smile.Be hyper relaxed.Dress wealthy (there is a reason why real-world pimps wore immaculate suits).BODY-LANGUAGE CHECK-LIST: - Don't lean in. Lean back. Be psychologically aloof instead of being psychologically clingy.- Don't speak quickly like you're nervous. Take your sweet time. Take pauses.- Don't invade personal space on the opener, but don't stand too far away either.- Keep your feet apart to hold a wide stance. Take up space.- Don't fidget or touch your face - which are indicators of anxiety.- Hold eye-contact.- Keep your hands on the hips as a power pose.- Be EXPRESSIVE when communicating. This is part of being a DYNAMIC COMMUNICATOR.







51







LAW #26: SUMMARYLAW #26: WOMEN ARE DISGUSTED BY WEAK MEN. ENTER INTERACTIONS WITH STRENGTH AND BOLDNESS.How an interaction sets the mutual tone, frame and micro habits for the entire interaction and eventually the following relationship. Hence, it's important to start from the right position from the very beginning.







52







LAW #27: CAPTURE HER ATTENTION LIKE A POLICE OFFICER.TECHNIQUE #27: THE ATTENTION SNAPThe attention snap is a very important part of the opener. Sometimes girls will pretend that they didn't hear anything/didn't notice you because they are afraid of being stuck in boring conversations with guys of low social status. In certain communities, women are constantly being hit up by random low status guys and they have developed certain "pretend like I don't hear anything" defense systems to avoid these losers. This issue is fixed by the attention snap and being clever.THE ART OF THE ATTENTION SNAP Be in her visual line of sight.Get physically in-front of her.Get eye-contact.Command her attention with a VERY DOMINANT "hey!"Once she notices you, move on to the ice-breaker opening line.THE ART OF THE FLIP "Which direction is the nearest library?""Actually I don't care about that. You're cute and I wanted to meet you."LAW #27: DON'T BE A PUSSY. CAPTURE HER ATTENTION LIKE A POLICE OFFICER.Pickup is like sales. You're selling the concept of her being with you. To do that: you have invade a woman's radar. That is done by "BLASTING IN" - not by humbly knocking on a door asking for permission to talk to.Don't ask "Hey, is it okay if I talk to you?" Don't even imply this frame with submissive body-language. Just fucking talk to her. Open like the Kool Aid man. He doesn't ask for permission by knocking on a door; he smashes through the wall and gives value. - Get her attention.- Differentiate yourself quickly from the average guy.- Give tons of value to spark attraction.- Sustain attention and her interest.- Always be closing.- Leave her wanting more.First get her attention; then deliver the opening line. High status men don't talk to women who aren't paying attention to them, or looking in the opposite direction. If a woman who you are in a relationship with does this, respond with "Look at me." High-status men expect to be treated with respect.When a woman treats you with respect, she becomes more attracted to you in the process. In contrast, if you allow a woman to treat you like a doormat, her vagina will get as dry as a desert.







53







LAW #27: SUMMARYLAW #27: DON'T BE A P*SSY. Don't ask for permission to talk to her. Don't even imply permission-seeking with submissive body-language. Just fucking talk to her AND OWN IT 100%. Capture her attention like a police officer.







54







LAW #28: SUCCESS WITH WOMEN NECESSITATES RISK.MINDSET: TAKE SOCIAL RISKS. PLAYING IT SAFE IS PLAYING IT BORING.If you want to be boring then play it safe, predictable and mundane. Have a nice conversation that she'll forget quickly. If you want to be interesting, take risks, be unpredictable, say the unexpected, throw curve-balls, and be edgy.HOW TO BE BORING: -> Take no conversational risks.-> Be like all the other guys.-> Agree with everything that she says because you don't have a mind of your own.-> Be predictable.-> Share mundane details about irrelevant shit no one cares about with no emotion, energy, or conviction.IF YOU ARE uncertain on what to do, do that which is BOLDER. BOLDNESS captivates the attention of women and sends ripples of vagina tingles. Be BOLD in conversations with women. Take social risks. Be willing to be different. Push social limits.THE TIMID GUY is the boring guy. Being bolder, provoking her emotions and taking risks in conversation will make you x10 more interesting to women. STOP being the nice guy who is terrified of pissing her off, scared of disagreeing, afraid of speaking his mind freely, and engulfed in an aura of timidity. Add a dosage of "ASSHOLE" into your conversation.MOST OF THE guys she meets play it safe in conversations with her because they are afraid of offending her, or saying something that would lead to rejection. As a result, these men are predictable, bland and BORING AS FUCK. To be interesting, take bold and fierce risks. Take courageous risks in conversation and you will find that you will be far more interesting to be around than ever before.WOMEN ARE BORED of men that walk-on-eggshells around them and bored of men that treat them like they are fragile flowers. She is not a fragile flower.START EXPERIMENTING with being TWICE AS BOLD in your communication style. Note the results that this experiment creates in your interactions. You will most likely find that being TWICE AS BOLD as you usually are, will make your conversations more emotionally-compelling and interesting.BE
MOTHERFUCKING
BOLD, MOTHERFUCKER. - Take social risks. Even if it doesn't hit, you get points for taking the risk.- Use emotionally-charged words, phrases, and statements designed to sway emotions.- Say that which 99% of men don't have the balls to say.IRONICALLY TAKING social risks and being BOLD in conversation is the safer route than not taking social risks. When you don't take social risks with women, you are taking the greatest risk of all: being BORING and FORGETTABLE.PLAYING to not lose means to avoid risk. Playing to win means risking loss. Success with women NECESSITATES risk - especially in conversation or you will be a bore.WHEN YOU SHOW INTENT, your ego is vulnerable. When in doubt, err on the side of boldness. Fierce boldness captivates a woman's attention and gets her to stick around longer. In contrast, timidity puts women to sleep. The shy, nice guy does not get women because he is not noticeable amidst the hordes of other shy, nice guys; there is nothing about him that stands out.SHE DOESN'T WANT to have a nice conversation. Those are boring as fuck. She is already bombarded with nice conversations by an endless stream of nice guys. Nice guys are a dime a dozen, so nice guy conversation is as abundant as water. Be different. Be edgy. Push social boundaries. Say the things that she has never heard of before.BE willing to break the chains of cultural conformity that hold men prisoners, and be radically different in a positive way.STATE YOUR PERSPECTIVES with a certain level of aggression and absolute confidence - even at the risk social disapproval.
     An Alpha Male does not care if you think he is an Alpha Male or not. He doesn't care if you disagree with his perspectives on life. He speaks his truth and expresses his personally 100% - even at the risk of social disapproval. This willingness to take risks, be his best uncensored self, and be different than average is what makes him stand out from the crowd - creating strong impressions on the minds of people that he meets; he then utilizes this attention for lead-generation purposes and runs those leads through a funnel that ends in a mutually pleasurable sexual relationship.     








55







LAW #28: SUMMARYLAW #28: TAKE CALCULATED RISKS. Success with women necessitates risk. Playing it safe is playing it boring. EVERY GUY plays it nice and safe; that's what makes him painfully predictable. ALWAYS PLAY TO WIN - NOT TO NOT LOSE.







56







LAW #29: FEEL THE FEAR AND APPROACH ANYWAYS.It is normal to feel nervous before you go up and start a conversation with a cute girl. That nervousness can take the form of an uncomfortable tension and burden in your heart; don't let it stop you. Take action, anyways! Approach anxiety usually vanishes the moment you open your mouth and say something. Action is the cure to fear.APPROACH ANXIETY or anticipatory uncomfortable tension prior to approaching or making a move on a woman is NORMAL.THERE ARE a few keys to overcoming AA (approach anxiety): - disassociate your identity from that emotion; you are not defined by the feelings you experience. - visualize yourself succeeding; what are you going to say to her exactly? See yourself walking up to a woman and saying the initial opening lines.- utilize affirmations.Verbalize out-loud "Every approach is a success - regardless of outcome. I either get the girl or a lesson." - utilize a timer. Make a deal with yourself. You only have to be in "APPROACHING MODE" for 3 minutes, and then you'll initiate a break where you focus on recovering energy. As time goes on, your social stamina will increase and the "APPROACHING MODE" time will increase, as well. - another affirmation that is useful to say to yourself in the field is "I don't give a fuck!" Saying this mantra with feeling can make a huge difference in mitigating anxiety prior to approaching women.- reframe "anxiety" as excitement. Focus on amusement and learning. Screenshot this page: if you are in the field, and every ounce of your being is telling you to quit because you are in emotional hell with overwhelming fear and a pounding heart, approach her anyways - because you are a man of courage with GIANT BALLS. 







57







LAW #29: SUMMARYLAW #29: FEEL THE FEAR AND APPROACH ANYWAYS.Anxiety when making moves on women is NORMAL. Almost everyone feels at it. The key is to not let emotional resistance stop you. Have the discipline to take action - no matter how you feel."







58







LAW #30: KILL THE NICE-GUY CONVERSATIONS. ADD TENSION.Nice conversations are instantly forgotten in her mind. A nice conversation doesn't spark attraction.BE willing to add a dosage of edginess to be different from the masses. Implement tactics: -> teasing,-> negging,-> cold-reads,-> role-playing,-> spiking intense emotional reactions,-> interesting storytelling,.A NICE CONVERSATION, nice behaviors, formalities, and politically-correct mindsets, do NOT spark the feelings of attraction that would make her LUST AFTER YOU.PREDICTABLE NICELY-BEHAVED males are a dime a dozen. The nice guy is the boring guy. He's boring because he is predictable. The nice guy is too terrified of being offensive that he avoids taking bold risks in conversation that would have made him interesting. Don't be bland, safe, predictable, and mundane. Develop a RAZOR'S EDGE to your personality.NICE GUY MISTAKES: - purely logical conversations that don't trigger any emotions,- playing it safe and boring women to death with political correctness,- being just like every other guy instead of standing the fuck out,- not teasing women;(ignoring biological realities),HOW TO BE INTERESTING: - Be unpredictable in conversation.- Say the unexpected.- Be willing to SHOCK her.- Take risks.- Be edgy and bold.- Talk about subject women actually care about. NICE GUYS are too afraid to say "the wrong thing" so they play it safe. As a result, she ends up bored and just ejects. The nice guy doesn't make her feel anything because his conversation is SO nice and makes her feel extra-comfortable. Making a woman feel *too comfortable* will land you into the friend zone. Woman want to feel a little outside of their comfort zone because that gives them some excitement of living, and makes them feel alive.THE BADBOY MAKES her feel butterflies in her stomach because his conversation is SO edgy and spikes tension. Which one is more exciting? Who will she choose?ADDING some tension to a conversation makes women feel a dosage of the excitement that they crave.
     Nice guys make a woman feel *TOO COMFORTABLE* and as a result bore women to death. A woman is not a fragile flower; she can handle some "rocking the boat" and bloody thrill in her life. In fact, she craves it.     
Get this. Nice conversation doesn't score you any points. It bores her to death. EVERY GUY is using the "nice conversation" tactic. She's seen it an endless number of times and it puts her to sleep. BE FUCKING DIFFERENT than what she has encountered her entire life.BE willing to disagree with what a woman says.
One of the advantages to disagreeing with a woman says it that it will stir her to invest into the conversation by wanting to "correct you". A man with a mind of his own is infinitely more interesting to women than a man who just agrees with everything that is said because he is too stupid to see a different angle to hot topic issues, or simply doesn't care enough to state an opposing viewpoint. I am not suggesting that you waste valuable time getting into debates and arguments; nor, should you suddenly become "Mr. I disagree with everything because it makes me sound cool"; but sprinkling in some disagreement on occasion to keep the conversation interesting is a useful tool to keep in your Conversation-Sparking Toolkit.BE willing to have a perspective of your own, and verbalize the tenets of that perspective - even if you intuitively sense these remarks will be against a woman's viewpoints. A lot of guys are just mindless "Yes" Men that agree with everything a woman says for fear of losing sexual access. It is not having an opinion of their own that makes them incredibly boring, mundanely predictable, and men with pussies instead of dicks. HAVE YOUR OWN FRAME.







59







LAW #30: SUMMARYLAW #30: KILL NICE GUY CONVERSATIONS.Nice guys make women feel excessively comfortable. This leads to platonic interactions and eventually hitting the friendzone. Women thrive on excitement. Flirt, tease, make moves, and embrace the tension.







60







LAW #31: AVOID THE LOGIC TRAP. BYPASS THE INFORMATION TRAP.She baits you into a logical, boring conversation that will bore her and then she gets bored and ejects. This is a female self-sabotage mechanism. Don't take the bait. You don't have to answer mundane questions. You don't have to play along. Be a disrupter.FRAME CONTROL 101 Just because a woman asked you a question does NOT mean that you have to answer it.Just because a woman said something does NOT mean that you have to reply.Just because a woman introduced a subject does NOT mean you have to stick to that topicTHE BIG
SECRET to keeping a conversation going with a woman: GET HER EMOTIONALLY ENGAGED by provoking her emotions. Take it a step further and get her ego engaged. Doing these two things will make it far more difficult for a woman to disengage from a conversation.WOMEN ARE SOCIAL CREATURES. They have difficulty resisting a man who is a great listener, insightful observe, conversationalist, fun and (at times) compromises her ego in a playful way (via flirting).TWO
KEY
POINTS: Many men are boring because they wait for women to bring up interesting topics of conversation. She often will not. You must bring the party. BE THE INITIATOR.A good frame to have is that you are the host of the conversation, and it's the host's responsibility to control the conversation to lead to a mutually sexually pleasing experience.A PURELY LOGICAL conversation is a BORING and DULL. Communicate to her in a language that resonates most with her: the language of emotions. Sprinkle in emotional spikes - whether negative emotions or positive ones. If she feels *NOTHING* then you're doing it wrong.CREATE emotional spikes by pressing her emotional buttons through the power of bold language, breaking conformity, or utilizing offensive humor. You can get away with saying almost anything as long as it's funny.What you are saying doesn't have to make complete logical sense in order for it to provoke her emotions.Women desire the feeling of INTENSE emotions because it makes them feel alive and excited.YET SOME GUYS don't know how to have emotionally-charged conversations. This is often true for intellectual who enjoy exploring the intricacies of esoteric theories. If you want to enjoy intellectual conversations, join a debate team or work as a paralegal. If a woman wanted factual information then she would read a book, but rather she is talking to you because...WOMEN THRIVE on EMOTIONAL CONVERSATIONS that give them good emotions. Communicate with women in this distinct modality. For smart guys, this is almost an entirely new language to learn.DON'T ALLOW a woman to trap you into a boring or super-logical conversations. You don't want to be associated with boredom and apathy. PATTERN DISRUPT HER SELF-SABOTAGE BEHAVIOR. Be willing to interrupt her and change the subject to something more fun and emotional. Her frame might be mighty strong but your frame should be even stronger. SHE DOESN'T CARE about learning new concepts, and the finer points of your philosophies. She cares about feeling intense good emotions & excitement. She cares about having her ego stroked by being in the presence of a high status man. In the field being high E.Q. reigns supreme.YOU CAN STILL TALK about philosophies but the focus should be about conveying life enthusiasm, conviction, feel-good emotions and energy through your words. Words are just a medium to get her to FEEL SOMETHING when she is with you; GET HER ADDICTED TO FEELING GOOD BECAUSE OF YOU.DUMB IDIOTS ARE GETTING MORE girls than you because they know how to turn off their logical mind, be in the present moment and have a good time with the girl. Chicks dig those feel-good emotions and being an animal.IN CONTRAST, high IQ low EQ guys are stuck in their head trying to think of the most brilliant thing to say, the best pickup line, and 764 step sequence. They're so busy analyzing that they forget to live in the present moment and see what's right in front of them. They're so busy living in the heads, that they never experience a moment of reality (outside their heads into the HERE and NOW of the physical tangible realm).WOMEN WOULD RATHER HAVE STUPID FUN than engage in deep, intellectually stimulating conversations.
After all, she lives for good emotions.THAT'S what she cares about most - not so much for philosophical depth. As an INTJ, this is a lesson that I had to learn the hard, painful way. I would treat women as if they were rational men with vaginas and the result was less than optimal. Then I realized that women are emotional creatures who CARE ABOUT FEELING GOOD MORE THAN ANYTHING ELSE IN THE WORLD. I started using BOLD LANGUAGE and saying EXTREMELY BOLD and RADICAL STATEMENTS; my results were outstanding!WOMEN WOULDN'T STOP TALKING to me because I was radically different (in a positive way) than the average guy that they were used to.WOMEN ARE HIGHLY intrigued by a man who shares fierce opinions about controversial subjects with 100% fearlessness. To nice guys stating an offensive opinion can be highly counter-intuitive, so it necessitates a leap of faith. Try stating safe statements to women; mark results in terms of conversation generated. Then try saying radically bold risky statements; and mark results in terms of conversation generated.SELF-HELP ADVICE IS HURTING you if it's causing you to be too self-conscious and overly analytical in the field. When you are in the field, focus on having fun, being bold, fully expressing yourself, and OWNING WHAT YOU SAY 100%.WHEN YOU ARE in the field, let go of analysis mode and just enter a TALKATIVE FUN EMOTIONAL STATE that will pull women in.SEDUCERS UNDERSTAND that women are more susceptible to seduction when they are in an intense emotional state. This is why logic is "the enemy" in conversations. Don't be too logical and deep in conversations; focus on being fun and pressing her emotional buttons.THE INFORMATION TRAPBeing stuck in perpetually consuming more information, but not taking action. Don't get stuck constantly reading more theory and then not implementing anything. Skill comes from relentless practice - not relentless reading.







61







LAW #31: SUMMARYLAW #31: AVOID THE LOGIC TRAP.It's not what you say, but the confidence, energy and emotions behind the words. It's not the factual information that a woman craves - but as using conversation as a medium to uplift her mood.







62







LAW #32: HIJACK AUTHORITY. TALK ABOUT YOURSELF, AND WHAT YOU ENJOY, BUT MAKE IT ABOUT HER.When speaking about yourself, reveal how what you are saying still has relevance to her personal life. Women unconsciously think "what does this have to do with me?"Make conversation win/win. The most important person in the world to her is herself. This is why a good conversation makes the topic relevant to her. Talk about yourself and what you enjoy, but make it about her.THINK: "How is what I am saying relate to her and what is going on with her life?""How is what I am going to say be relevant to the subjects that she cares most about?""How can I make what I am about to say be connected and related to something that will personally benefit her?COLD-READS IS about telling her about herself, her personality and her life situation; they are very powerful. Be relevant. Always bring the conversation back to something relevant to her personal interests.HAVE a unique perspective on hot topics. News, buzzwords and local events that are currently trending naturally engage women on a visceral level. Relate what you're saying to these trending popular cultural topics. Frame yourself as an authority on these subjects and use that as a starting point in conversation. HAVE a sincere interest in getting to know her more. This is part of exploring humanity, learning more about people and enjoying the present moment of being in the presence of beauty. Being a good listener encourages women to invest into a conversation; listen with the intent to listen rather than solely focusing on what you have to say next. When she says something about herself, empathize with her emotions by relating an incident where you felt the same way and/or had the same realizations. 
     Women are more inclined to talk when a man is in the present moment (not stuck in his head - on another planet), listens FULLY and expresses a genuine interest in learning more about the subject at hand. The interest in getting to know more about her comes from a general interest of learning more about human nature, and society - insights which can then prove to be useful for business purposes.     
It is recommended that you develop a genuine interest in learning more about people, and about the world in general. A good mindset to have is that "every person has positive qualities that I can learn from."
When you are naturally curious about human nature (and what makes people tick) then you will enjoy stacking cold-reads.THE SAME INSIGHTS into female nature that you will clarify from making in-the-moment observations out-loud, can later prove to be useful when you are deciding on a winning-product to sell on your online store (selling $5 stuff drop-shipped from China for $20 in America and paying influencers for shoutouts to your overnight website). When you understand human nature, you can use that knowledge to profit in the business place. The point is this: by having a genuine interest in learning more about people, you will naturally have people open-up to you and share details about their life - becoming more invested in the process of talking to you.







63







LAW #32: SUMMARYLAW #32: HIJACK AUTHORITY.Talk about yourself, and what you enjoy, but make it about her. Make conversations win/win. Show how what you're interested in and enjoy talking about, has relevancy to what she values.







 







64







LAW #33: FLASH ELITE STATUS. LEVERAGE SOCIAL MEDIA. WIN AT ANY COST.BE THE DIFFERENT THAN THE AVERAGE GUY. FLASH ELITE STATUS BECAUSE GREATNESS IS SEXY.Wear at least one outrageous item to help you STAND OUT from the masses and make a memorable, killer impact. This also provides women with an excuse to start a conversation with you, if they're attracted to you. If she is intrigued and wants to get to know you more, the peacocked item that you are wearing will provide that plausible deniability excuse for her.HOW TO BE BORING: be average and do what all the other guys are doing (basic bitch mode).WHAT YOU SAY to her shouldn't be the same boring and lame shit that all the other guys are saying. If she's heard it before then it won't spark intrigue; it will spark the "I've been there, done that already" anchor. Be different. Be a breath of fresh air.UPGRADE YOUR PHOTO GAME.There are men that post IG photos of themselves at a  sunset and then write in the captions that they are in a foreign country. Others pay professionals to photoshop them in adventurous scenarios - such as in-front of the Eiffel Tower surrounded by beautiful women leaning into them. It's not as expensive as you would think to get flown in a helicopter, or to rent a jet-ski/Ferrari. The key is that the most recent four photos of your IG page should be dope pictures. While I'm not necessarily saying that you should engage in deception out of ethical concerns, I do advise: being creative in how you present yourself to the world.IT SOUNDS pathetic to stoop so low to seduce women, but that is how the game is played by both genders. Since the dawn of mankind women have duped men with makeup. In the 21st century, the game has evolved and women are using plastic surgery, boob-jobs, unique camera angles, and phone filters. Why should a man not exploit the same techniques of visual manipulation? If the situation was reversed, a woman would not hesitate to win - by any means necessary.THE GOAL IS to appear to be part of the 0.01% of society. And if that's not who you are now, work towards achieving the apex of the metaphorical human food-chain mountain. Achieving apex social status is a longterm game.LEVERAGE SOCIAL MEDIABesides playing a religious angle, one can gain the trust of a particular woman by adding her as a FaceBook friend - provided that he has a "pimped" profile page. When a woman views photos of you surrounded by successful, high-status friends (who are tagged) doing cool things, and engaging your friends in the comments then she will trust you because of the built-in digital social proof. In contrast, if your FB profile is just memes and you have weird friends (who post creepy socially-inept comments like "slay her!) then it will just be negative social proof.THIS BOOK IS MORE about conversation skills than how to become an attractive man, so I won't get into depth here, but there is a lot to be said about having strong social media game. Building an online presence and a positive reputation in a community that has women in it is a long term mating strategy (like farming) that might not have an immediate payoff, but it will in the future. Don't use this as an excuse to get addicted to FB.







65







LAW #33: SUMMARYLAW #33: LEVERAGE SOCIAL MEDIA.Women are addicted to FB and IG. Attention is a form of currency. Develop competent photo game to showcase an exciting lifestyle, flash elite status, social proof with powerful contacts and material proof.







66







LAW #34: FLIRT OR BE FRIEND ZONED. SUSTAIN A MAN-TO-WOMAN FRAME INTERACTION THROUGHOUT.ESCALATE THE VIBE TO AVOID FALLING INTO THE FRIENDZONE.It looks like a normal conversation to an untrained eye, but the daytime seducer is implementing a series of rapid-fire tactics, that will create an emotional connection that leads to legs being spread.GUYS THAT GET FRIEND-ZONED: don't escalate the vibe,don't sexuality the conversation,don't create a man-to-woman frame, anddon't flirt."TOUCH EARLY AND TOUCH OFTEN" is a maxim in the seduction community. Touch is a form of physical communication that cannot be substituted by verbal communication. Create this pattern of continuous touching from the very start of the interaction.HOW YOU START an interaction is how the entire interaction will continue; likewise, how one starts a relationship with a woman sets the behavioral pattern of the entire relationship. Behaviors tend to reinforce themselves overtime. Ideally you want to start with a man-to-woman frame right away - rather than land into the friend zone and then have the hassle of changing behavioral patterns that have already been ingrained.IF YOU DON'T TOUCH her at all for a period of 15 minutes and then suddenly start touching, it can be strange to suddenly start touching her later on.HOW AN INTERACTION STATS is how it will continue on. You want to start with the frame that you are just a touchy guy and naturally touch everyone as you communicate with them. Physical escalation is the bridge that separates men from boys, and lovers from friends.TOUCH HER BODY. Make a move. Shamelessly touch her body with ultra confidence - like you expect automatic compliance. Assume that it will work and often it will.SHE DESIRES your touch but she is too restricted by social conditioning to express this outright. Slut-shaming is still a cultural phenomenon, so women tend to be more promiscuous in private than in public.YOU HAVE to touch her body early and often because this is a vital element in the mating process. Get her hooked on the oxytocin that she feels upon skin-to-skin contact. Eventually, she will be hooked on the pleasure that your dick provides.WHEN IT COMES to physical escalation, just make a move. Her body craves your touch. Don't rob her of this gift. Overtime increase the duration and intensity of the touch. You are having an unspoken physical conversation.LIFE IS TOO short to take too long to make a move. GROW SOME BALLS and make a fucking move. Don't be one of those guys that needs to have endless conversations to nowhere - that span for many weeks - before you ask her out or endless dates before you physically escalate. Don't become texting penpals. She'll just use you for conversation, attention and free entertainment.PUT A PRICE TAG ON YOURSELF. She has to meetup at a reasonable time and make reasonable progress towards sexual intimacy or you're moving on to prospects that don't have intimacy (or logistical) impediments.A FEW PROPERLY PLACED AND well-timed touches can make a woman aroused. Touch her in the right area on her skin during emotionally high moments. Use conversation as misdirection while touching her; bullshit baffles brains.DON'T JUST APPROACH to have a nice conversation to nowhere. Approach with the intention of banging her. Consistently move the interaction forward closer to sex. Your time isn't free. Always be pushing the interaction closer towards sex. Don't be one of those guys who: - has endless conversations that lead to nowhere, - becomes the penpal chatting buddy that never makes a move or - waiting around for months hoping that things will work out in the end.OFTEN WOMEN DON'T KNOW what they want until you show them what's possible. LEAD. Don't ask permission to "touch her". Just touch her during the course of the conversation and watch her respond with positive EXCITEMENT.ALWAYS BE ADVANCING the interaction towards sex. Life is too short to be spend to be trapped in an endless conversation to nowhere or going on a dozen friendly dates. Always be moving things forward towards sex and if she resists repeatedly, NEXT HER.READING BODY-LANGUAGE IS CRUCIAL. She could be DOWN TO FUCK RIGHT NOW but you are still busy having a conversation trying to create more attraction and more rapport. Don't be blind. Open your eyes to the signals she is sending and tailor your game accordingly. If she is down to fuck, don't run more attraction-generating game; just fucking close now!DON'T FRAME the touching as a big deal. Make it appear natural, spontaneous and smooth. Don't draw attention to it, or look at the touch while touching. The conversation will distract her from the touch being uploaded to her unconscious. Physical escalation creates excitement for women that encourages them to keep going in the interaction.ONE OF THE best times to touch a woman is when you're making a point, or to reward her for good behavior. Start with smaller physical escalations before proceeding to bigger forms of physical escalation. "You get a hug for that."







67







LAW #34: SUMMARYLAW #34: FLIRT OR BE FRIENDZONED.Sustain a man-to-woman frame interaction throughout. As a man, it's your role to create this Rated R element in the interaction.







68







LAW #35: DEVELOP EMOTIONAL INTELLIGENCE (EQ).HAVE A GREAT VIBE.You can spot a beginner Daygamer quickly by the nervous tonality he uses when he tries to start conversations with female strangers. He feels shame, fear and places too much importance on specific approaches; the girls get turned off by his uneasiness. If he feels nervous then she will also feel nervous.WOMEN FEED on your emotional state and energy levels.VIBE IS about projecting good emotions outwards. When you feel happy, energetic, excited about life, enthusiastic about life goals, then she will feel these good emotions as well. But if you are sad, low-energy and devoid of purpose then she will feel that too.HAVING a great vibe necessitates strong emotional self-regulation skills.PUT SIMPLY: if you feel good, women will feel good around you; if you are in the zone, you will kill! Hence, it's worthwhile to learn how to sustain a GREAT VIBE through emotional state control tactics.AVOID the presence of toxic people who suck the life force out of your vibe. Protect your mental health. Just like you avoid consuming toxic foods, avoid consuming toxic ideas that these toxic people spread. Take care of your physical and psychological well-being. 







69







LAW #35: SUMMARYLAW #35: CREATE A SEXY VIBE.Women feed on your emotional state and energy levels. Having a great vibe necessitates strong emotional self-regulation skills. When you can pump your own emotions, you can pump a woman's emotions.







70







LAW #36: KILL FORMALITY. ASSUME FAMILIARITY. SET THE FRAME WITH YOUR BEHAVIORS. LEAD BY EXAMPLE.Ironically, one of the best ways to START a conversation with a beautiful woman is to assume that you ALREADY ARE in a conversation.This is counter-intuitive. Sometimes the best way to win a battle is to bypass it entirely and assume you've already won. In business, this concept is known as "assuming the sale".Instead of asking for permission to talk to a woman, just start talking to her! Just by the act of responding: she's already accepted the frame that it's fine to talk.RAPPORT HACK: You want to escalate the conversation from impersonal to personal. When you act as if you've known her forever, she'll adopt the frame as well and you can hijack intimate anchors that are usually reserved for people that she is close with. Don't be formal. Assume intimacy.BE one step above her in the intimacy ladder to guide her towards greater levels of intimacy with you. By behaving as if you are already close to her, then you actually become close to her (because she'll start to buy-in to that frame and treat you accordingly). It is not needy to show romantic interest in a woman.








71







LAW #36: SUMMARYLAW #36: KILL FORMALITY. ASSUME FAMILIARITY.Set the frame with your behaviors. Lead by example. Don't ask for permission to escalate. Just do it. If she doesn't object, the frame has been set. Behave as if you're already intimate with her.







72







LAW #37: WOMEN ARE VALUE CONSUMERS. DIFFERENTIATE YOURSELF IMMEDIATELY. BE A GIVER OF VALUE.MINDSET #37: BRING THE VALUE.If you approach, you have to carry the burden of conversation. You're the one who approached; hence, you have to bring the fucking value. YOU BRING THE PARTY.DON'T BE one of those guys who just says "hi" and then expects her to suddenly to carry the conversation. It can take a bit for the conversation to start but after a minute or so, you'll hit conversational momentum and it will be easy. The flow will take over.WHEN YOU APPROACH the conversation burden is on you. After all, she doesn't know who you are yet (so, she will naturally not invest a lot in conversation with a guy she just met), and she may not be in a social mode. The more you talk and give conversational value, the more attracted she will become and at some point, she will reach the social hook point and invest hard for you to stay.THE OPENER CAN BE solid but if that's the only thing you have to say and you have nothing to follow up with then the conversation may die soon. At that point: ANYTHING is better than saying NOTHING. Starting conversations with strangers - beautiful females or not - has a lot to do with your general conversation skills. You have to be fun to talk to, energetic and relevant. Strangers are not necessarily in a social mode. Pump value persistently until she starts to warm up. During the 1-3 minutes of a pickup, you are essentially a live, human advertisement towards the concept of "being with you".When you have 100% confidence, powerful dominant body-language, enthusiasm about the subject matter, and a great vibe then you can say almost ANYTHING and women will stay enjoy it tremendously.Why? Because they feed on these positive emotions much more than the intellectual value of what is said.THAT IS HOW DUMB MOTHERFUCKERS GET WOMEN. IT'S NOT THAT THESE DUMB MOTHERFUCKERS SAY INTRIGUING INTERESTING INSIGHTFUL GEMS OF WISDOM. It's that these dumb motherfuckers are genuinely happy, energetic, excited about life, and let these feel-good emotions overflow with every word that they say.These dumb motherfuckers speak with absolute certainty that what they just said has tremendous value. It's this conviction in their own bullshit that pulls people in.BE the source of good emotions. Approach women with an overflowing cup of feeling good.THIS IS superior to approaching women with an empty cup - trying to get her to give you validation and good emotions.Maxim: DRAW STATE FROM WITHIN. For most men, this is entirely unconscious. They might not even realize that they are needy. They might even have spent years being needy and have no idea. Then they wonder why they're so exhausting to be around with, and why they suddenly kill the vibe upon entering a room.When you know that you have a lot to offer, that you feel excitement of life that you want to share then your approaches will be a lot smoother.It's easier to approach from a position of an abundant giver than it is to approach from a position of a beggar living in scarcity.  Think of it this way: "Would you feel nervous about approaching a girl to give her a $100 bill?" Of course, not because you expect positive reactions, you know that you're bringing value and you have worth. Guess what: your presence and vibe are worth more than a hundred bucks.That's one of the reasons why you want to have a positive self-concept and follow RJ's guiding principle (which will contribute to that self-image): "Leave women better than when you found them." It's more for your own inner-game and benevolent intent than for the actual woman. BRING MORE VALUE THAN YOU TAKE.When dealing with women, don't bring your emotional baggage to the table. Nobody cares if you're tired.Nobody gives a fuck what kind of issues you're going through.Just bring the fucking value. Telling captivating, short stories is one of the most simple ways to bring value. Picking up women is an art form. Another way to bring the fucking value: is to have great energy, overflowing positive emotions, and spread enthusiasm for life.







73







LAW #37: SUMMARYLAW #37: BRING THE VALUE.Women are value consumers; and attracted to men who are value givers. Differentiate yourself immediately by being the life of the party.







 







74







LAW #38: ESCALATE THE CONVERSATION.BRING THE VALUE RIGHT AWAYWomen's attention spans are shorter than ever because this internet generation is trained to get rapid bursts of instant gratification from their phones. This relates to pickup because you have to cut out the fluff from your conversations and give a lot of value quickly.SOME WAYS of bringing the value immediately is to: have an AMAZING VIBE,make cold-reads, andto dress like a boss.WOMEN'S EGO crave the attention of a man who looks wealthy, powerful and flashes elite level social status.GIVE a ton of value quickly - naturally weaved into the conversation. When the moment of decision comes, she will allow herself to be further seduced.KEEP THE CONVERSATION GOING. If you drop the ball then as the conversation will end and so will the social interaction. The conversation is the glue that holds the social interaction together and allows you to play the game. You approached her, not the other way around. Therefore, it is your job to keep things fun until the hook-point (the moment when she wants you to stay and eventually wants to get to know you more). Carry the conversation. THE ONE COMMON OPENER THAT SUCKS BALLS.In case you forgot, don't start the conversation with "What's up?" This doesn't actually contribute value but rather asks for value. If you don't have an established connection prior, don't expect her to contribute value into the conversation without first getting value. Give conversational value to a woman FIRST. Then request conversational value from her SECOND.THE "YES AND" CONVERSATION FORMATWhen a woman says something, paraphrase what she said in your own words and then add insight. The "Yes And" conversation format works well with the Dig Deeper technique.CONVERSATION ESCALATIONDon't milk the opener!
You ideally want to progress from something that is not personal to subjects that are more of an intimate nature - such as her aspirations and learning about her deepest secrets.IF YOU STICK to talking about the mundane with a woman then that is not a conversation that is conducive to fostering a strong genuine connection. It is smarter to find out a woman's core values are and deepest, most meaningful goals are; then connect on that.COMMONALITIES ABOUT A WOMAN'S core values and most important aspirations is what will create a genuine, strong emotion connection.Always move the interaction forward toward sex. If you hit a wall then cut her off. Your time and attention is worth more than money. Don't waste it on sexual-dead ends.







75







LAW #38: SUMMARYLAW #38: ESCALATE THE CONVERSATION.Your attention and time is worth more than money. Don't waste it on sexual dead-ends; focus these resources on leads with greater sexual potential. Always move forward. Frame: blow me, or blow me out.







76







LAW #39: HAVE SWAGGER. EXPRESS YOUR PERSONALITY FREELY AND FULLY. PUT THE ART INTO BEING A PICKUP *ART*IST.Men judge women primarily based on physicality. Women judge men primarily based on personality. Conversation is a means to express your attractive personality - which will make a woman interested in your attractive personality, and create a connection. If you're having bland, reserved and predictable conversations with NO personality then you're missing that opportunity.HOW TO NOT BE BORING IN CONVERSATIONS: - Express STRONG opinions.- Don't be the guy who is afraid to make waves.- Express your TRUE, AUTHENTIC self. Don't hide behind a mask.- Convey loads of personality. Don't be bland.- Polite is boring. Be willing to be offensive and edgy.CONFIDENT MEN EXPRESS themselves fully and freely. They have a personality and aren't afraid to show it. They have a certain style, swagger and art to how they interact that makes them memorable. Don't be afraid to be you. Being you is what makes you unique and interesting because there's only one version of YOU. Showcase your personality by being highly expressive and revealing positive emotions; In contrast, hiding or censoring of oneself stems from self-doubt. Why are you afraid?If you heed this tip then you will start being HYPER INTERESTING in conversations. KILL SOCIAL INHIBITIONS. KILL SOCIAL FEAR. When you express yourself fully and freely, you will be a far more interesting person.GET A FRAME.A "yes" man is BORING AS FUCK to women because he lacks his own individual opinion. His perspective instantly becomes whatever the woman thinks. This doesn't stimulate a woman's mind - on an intellectual level. HAVE YOUR OWN INDEPENDENT PERSPECTIVE.SIGNS
YOUR
FRAME
IS
SHIT: - you're a pushover,- you find yourself saying "yes" to things you want to say "no" to,- you find yourself quickly agreeing to everything someone says,- you're afraid of conflict and the tension that comes from disagreement,- you feel guilty when you say "no",- you lack your own independent perspective,- when you get into a relationship: your personality instantly changes to hers (losing yourself),- you're quick to trust the opinion of others without thinking things through for yourself first,







77







LAW #39: SUMMARYLAW #39: HAVE SWAGGER.Express yourself fully and freely. Have a style/unique way of interacting with people that is exclusive to your personal brand. Put the ART back into being a pickup -*ART*ist. Don't be the guy with no personality.







78







LAW #40: DON'T BE PREDICTABLE. BE UNPREDICTABLE. UTILIZE THE NOVELTY EFFECT.Say something UNEXPECTED.A predictable guy is a boring guy. Don't be afraid to PUSH THE FUCKING LIMITS OF WHAT IS SOCIALLY ACCEPTABLE.Rule of thumb for conversations and relationships: being predictable is being boring.THE NOVELTY EFFECTA woman's brain is hardwired to ignore that which is expected, and respond to the unexpected. By presenting yourself in a manner that is radically new, and inherently different than what she is used then you will be able to captivate and sustain a woman's attention.THINK ABOUT MOVIES: if you've seen a particular plot dozens of times in movies, then you'll be remarkably bored, and won't want to even finish watching the movie because you already know how it ends. However, if a movie has a unique twist and unpredictable plots then the unpredictability will keep you hooked.WARNING:Keep in mind that in certain situations - such as when you are dealing with police, interviews for a potential lucrative position, business discussions with business partners at networking events, at your job - it is more appropriate to use a more reserved analytical, logical calculated-mode of talking. It is not appropriate to activate "crazy fun guy" (who speaks his fucking mind freely and makes radically bold situations to stir emotions at all costs) in formal situations.TO MEN who have strong social skills this should be common-sense, but it is worth putting in here - just in case. In an advanced note, one can use NLP and self-suggestions to quickly switch between "CRAZY FUN GUY" to " BUSINESS MODE GUY."







79







LAW #40: SUMMARYLAW #40: DON'T BE PREDICTABLE.Predictability breeds boredom. Be unpredictable. Take bold risks in conversations and interactions. Throw the occasional curve-ball. A woman's brain is hardwired to give attention to novelty.







80







LAW #41: CREATE AN INNER-FIRE. HAVE DOMINANT BODY-LANGUAGE.TECHNIQUE #25: HAVE FIERCE EYE-CONTACT.Evasive eye-contact is one of the defining traits of a beta male. He is too afraid to look strangers in the eye, so he pretends not to notice them. Darting eyes betray a man with a low sense of self-worth, fear, and feelings of inferiority; he's metaphorically trying to "hide" with this defensive body-language to protect himself from "attacks".SOCIAL FEAR IS WEAKNESS. It is not fitting for a god, such as yourself, to behave like a peasant. It is especially important to hold very strong eye-contact at the beginning of a social interaction (also known as the initial phase of a pickup).HOLDING eye-contact makes you come across as confident, bold and it applies social pressure on the girl to acknowledge your reality. Diverting eye-contact - even for a moment - at the beginning of a pickup can be fatal. Look her in the eyes - eyeball to eyeball - for at least a solid minute for the initial phase of the interaction.SOMETIMES YOU WILL LOOK AROUND and notice that someone is staring at you. Don't divert your gaze downwards like a man who is terrified of others. Hold eye contact. Smile. And say "hello"; it may even lead to a conversation.PICKUP ARTISTS MUST THRIVE IN SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTS AND ARE FEARLESS.Never be afraid to look someone in the eye. Used properly eye-contact can be a powerful medium for seducing a woman. She can tell if you are confident or not simply by your ability or inability to hold her gaze. Darting eyes reveal a nervous, insecure man; if you were approached by a nervous man how would you feel? Nervous! Emotions are contagious. THE ULTIMATE BODY-LANGUAGE HACK TO INSTANTLY BE SEXIER TO WOMEN: CREATE AN INNER-FIRE.How you feel on the inside will directly impact the behaviors and body-language that you display on the outside. By feeling calm, confident and in-control then you will automatically convey an attractive outer-game persona.VERBALIZE the following self-suggestions to regulate your emotional state: "I am the law. I AM THE AUTHORITY." This is MY territory."1WHEN YOU FEEL RELAXED, powerful and fucking awesome then your body-language will reflect this. Hence, one of the main keys to good body-language is emotional self-regulation. Feeling powerful leads to effortlessly displaying powerful body-language.
1 As mentioned prior, different self-suggestions, mantras and affirmations work for different people. Experiment with your own choice of words. The key is to FEEL something significant when verbalizing them; if you FEEL nothing then being a tape-recorder on repeat won't make much of a difference.







81







LAW #41: SUMMARYLAW #41: CREATE AN INNER-FLAME.HAVE DOMINANT BODY-LANGUAGE. When you feel powerful and relaxed, you'll automatically convey high social status body-language. Command a strong presence in any room you enter.







82







LAW #42: TO ATTRACT WOMEN, BECOME ATTRACTIVE. BE POSITIVE, SOCIALLY COMPETENT, CONFIDENT, AND STYLISH.Men that are positive are FAR MORE ATTRACTIVE to women than men that have pessimistic perspectives on life. Having basic social skills is necessary for dealing with people - women included. Having an active social life will inherently lead to having strong game skills. Don't isolate yourself from society and stop developing yourself, the moment you get a girlfriend.IF YOU HAVE no real-world friends who you meet up with then yes, that's a red-flag that you need to socialize more. There are real benefits to having a peer support network - besides ample opportunities to sharpen your social skills. Further, one of the fastest ways to get strong social skills is to spend time with people who have strong social skills - role-modeling after them. Avoid spending time with socially inept fucking weirdos because that would only lead you to internalize their anti-game behavioral tendencies.IT'S amazing how often basic rules of conduct are ignored like: - hold eye-contact,- articulate clearly,- have a strong, firm handshake,- keep your head held high,- don't look down like a beta,- stand straight,- wear clean clothes (women do notice subtle details),- shower daily to ensure you smell nice,- don't monopolize a conversation,- don't be clingy in conversations and "wear out your welcome",- don't dress like a retard,- don't be a downer by focusing on the negatives in life,- don't be bitter by speaking badly about people,- don't bring up strange subjects like serial killers,- don't bring up gross subjects like farts and feces,- don't be socially awkward by being fucking weird and oblivious to the unofficial rules of dealing with people,YES, women will notice if you have: - greasy hair,- unkempt hair,- long nails,- smiling too often,- nodding too frequently,- licking your lips frequently,- being dressed oddly, and- dirty or stained clothing.THESE SUBTLE DETAILS reveal a lot about a man. If you look like shit, then women will find you creepy. Women will judge you within the first half a second of seeing you.DRESS IMPECCABLY.
Not because you need her validation, or care what she thinks. But because you understand the importance of perception management & strong game skills when it comes to banging pussy in general.By taking care of yourself (personal grooming, basic self-care behaviors such as good hygiene, being financially independent, etc.) you reveal the capacity to take care of others.IF YOU ARE a LOW QUALITY MAN then even if you have 10,000 approaches don't expect significant results, and the minimal results that you acquire may be a LOW QUALITY WOMAN. By becoming a HIGH QUALITY MAN your conversion rate will be significantly higher, and women will give "invite signals" that they want to be approached. Become an attractive man to attract attractive women; you attract based on who you are - not just based on what you want.ALWAYS BE WORKING TO: - increase your sexual market value,- sharpen your game skills, and- expand your mental library of valuable useful knowledge.Getting to APEX SOCIAL STATUS is not an overnight phenomenon, but takes years of conscious self-development. Think longterm.A HIGHER LEVEL OF APPROACHING - GAMING THE WORLDBy achieving EXCELLENCE and at the top 0.01% of men in society then women approach & make moves on you.THIS IS ALSO TRUE IF: - you are the Apex Alpha Male in a social group that includes women,- you are a YouTuber with a huge following discussing subjects women are into etc.MEN ARE USING social media platforms (such as IG and even YouTube) to attract women into their life by showcasing excellence in their talents, and flashing an extravagant, adventurous lifestyle. The sexual marketplace has gone GLOBAL and DIGITAL - especially after corona hit.WOMEN WILL GOOGLE YOUR NAME. Be Googleable. Have a website - as "evidence" - to your exciting lifestyle. If you have an exciting lifestyle, with highlights showcased on IG she will fantasize about being your girlfriend to get some of that action. Keep this in mind.







83







LAW #42: SUMMARYLAW #42: MAKE EVERY DAY COUNT.PLOT YOUR PATH TO APEX STATUS. To attract women, become attractive. Every day focusing on raising your status in the sexual marketplace. Develop traits such as being positive, socially competent, and stylish.







84







LAW #43: DON'T BE SHY, DROP THE BALL OR STALE OUT THE TOPIC.A conversation is like playing a ball of catch. You say something and metaphorically throw the ball to her. She understands what you have said and catches the ball. Then she says something to you and throws the ball back at you.This throw-and-catch dynamic has also been referred to as ping-pong. For every ping that you put out, she puts out a pong; thus, is the conversation dance.WHEN IT'S your turn to talk, don't drop the ball. Say something that is interesting, emotionally relevant, fun-generating, and provoking enough for her to respond to. If you are suddenly silent then this may end the interaction.IN THE FIRST five minutes of meeting a woman, NOTHING KILLS INTERACTIONS MORE THAN AWKWARD SILENCES.THIS IS similar to you dropping the ball. Sometimes a woman will say something else or throw a question your way to resuscitate a dying conversation (metaphorically walking over to your side, picking up the ball for you and literally handing it your hands), but this should not be relied upon in the initial phase of the pickup.IF YOU DON'T KNOW what to say then SAY ANYTHING.PLAUSIBLE DENIABILITYIf a woman is sincerely interested in you then she will use what you have said and find someway to build on it. It's not the conversation that she cares about as much as who she is talking with; the conversation is just an excuse for her to spend time with you - without seeming like a slut who fucks random strangers she just met.A WOMAN WILL HAVE promiscuous sex with a high status attractive man - outside of marriage or a committed relationship - even if she pretends to be prudish and "innocent".GIVE her the excuse that she needs by not dropping the ball, and smoothly leading the interaction towards sex based on the progression that she is comfortable with. Always be escalating the interaction towards sex at a reasonable pace - not too slow, and too not too fast. It will take approximately seven hours from "hello" to "BANG BANG BANG SUCK SUCK SUCK".







85







LAW #43: SUMMARYLAW #43: BE OUTGOING.Don't drop the ball. Don't believe the Hollywood movie myth that the shy nervous guy eventually gets the girl because she sees through the timid persona& finds his golden heart. Have an assertive communication style.







86







LAW #44: LET GO OF THE QUEST FOR THE PERFECT PICKUP LINE.The goal of the opening phase is not to make her instantly attracted to you. The goal of the opening phase is simply to: - seize her attention,- break the stranger danger barrier,- break the icy tension,- make a woman feel comfortable enough to respond,- create the conditions for a conversation to "naturally" occur,- in a manner that appears natural and spontaneous,- not creepy or weird.THE GOAL of an opener isn't to have the best pickup line in the world. Nor is it to get her to spike attraction - right off the bat. The goal of the opener is to simply to grab her attention, make her comfortable enough to respond, and set the stage to start a conversation.SEARCHING for the best pickup-line in the world may paralyze you from taking action. You may think "The opener isn't good enough" so I won't say anything. The search for perfection is paralyzing. Perfect is the enemy of good enough.YOU DON'T NEED an earth-shattering MIND-BLOWING opening line to start a conversation with a girl during the daytime. Something really super-simple will work just fine.THE SEMI DIRECT OPENER At a social event:
"Hey. I haven't met you yet. I'm Cory.""Hi!"1At a college: "Omg. You look exactly like someone else at this college!"THE SITUATIONAL OBSERVATION OPENER Near a bar: "Hey, did you see the fight outside?"USING an opening line based on what she is doing comes across as most natural. Don't be fucking weird or socially awkward by staring at a woman for a long time before approaching her. Look at her, smile, walk over and deliver an opening line.A GOOD CONVERSATION has a flow to it. Ideally there should never be a point where you come across as "trying too hard" to keep the conversation going. Nor should there be long awkward silences in the initial pickup phase.WHEN YOU ENJOY THE CONVERSATION, she will enjoy it as well because fun is contagious. Get into the frame of mind that you enjoy having conversations with women. You enjoy: talking about yourself,talking about your passions,learning about other people,meeting new people,reviewing ideas by teaching them to othersreceiving therapeutic benefits from talking about yourself.Types of openers (mentioned in this book): - The opinion opener,- The situational observation opener,- The functional opener,- The semi-direct opener,- The direct opener,- The no-opener (just start talking), THERE IS no substitute for actually having fun. Fun is not something that should be faked. You have to be genuinely having a good time. Your feel-good emotions will spread unto her, and you'll be motivated to keep going out.

1 After saying "hi", it's important to immediately follow-up with something of value. Simply saying "hi" to a beautiful woman and expecting her to carry the conversation is not optimal and does not work in real life. Neither does "hey, how are you doing?" She doesn't know who the fuck you are; why would she invest effort to start a conversation with you on her own initiative? "Hi" is just the opener, but you need a strong follow-up. For instance, you can follow up with an observation "I have never seen anyone [something about her] like that before." She'll say "Oh really?" You can then say "It shows that you're a non-conformist. [Follow up with a question]."







87







LAW #44: SUMMARYLAW #44: EVERYTHING THAT YOU SAY, OWN IT.Let go of the quest for the perfect pickup line. The need for perfection leads to Action Paralysis. It's not what you say, but how you say it that matters most. You can open with almost anything.







88







LAW #45: USE HER IMAGINATION.A WOMAN'S IMAGINATION DOES MUCH OF THE SEDUCTION WORK FOR YOU.How to leverage a woman's imagination to your seductive favor: NegationOpen loopPush backI.THE NEGATION TACTICPlayfully letting her know that you won't tell her something because it's a secret. She'll pressure to reveal the information, but don't give in right away. Let her beg for it, and then still don't tell her.II.THE
OPEN
LOOP TACTICGive her some information as bait, but don't give her full-disclosure. YouTubers will frequently do this; at the start of their videos, they'll tell you about all of the things that they are going to cover in their video. This "teaser" keeps the viewer hooked till the end of the video because he wants to learn all of the information that was hinted at in the "trailer".YOU WANT to hint at interesting and exciting things about your life, but when she asks about it: only reveal *some* of the information and then change the subject. She'll stay in the conversation because she wants to hear the rest.III.THE
PUSH
BACK TACTICAccuse a woman of something and watch her defend herself. When you get a woman hooked into enjoying your approval and then break rapport (by pushing her away), she'll chase hard to get it back.







89







LAW #45: SUMMARYLeverage a woman's imagination by not giving her full disclosure. Women will often ask questions that they don't want the answer to.







90







LAW #46: EXPLOIT A WOMAN'S NURTURING NATURE.TACTIC #46.1 THE OPINION OPENERThe opinion opener is a massively underrated way to start conversations with female strangers; it's effective because it gets a woman to start investing into a conversation, right off the bat. Done correctly, a woman will start yapping non-stop."IMAGINE THIS; someone comes up to you and offers you two pills. One is red; you'll know exactly what people will think of you - the good and the ugly. Another one is blue; which will give you blissful ignorance. Which one will you choose?"ONE OF THE inherent challenges of meeting women in the street is that it's not something that she is used to and it can therefore come across as weird. Hence, a sneaky way to approach women on the street is to use a 100% bullet-proof opener that is guaranteed to open.TACTIC #46.2 THE FUNCTIONAL OPENERUtilize props to really sell this. Have a MacBook in one hand, and an iPhone 11 Max Pro in another hand - with Google Maps open."HEY WHERE IS the nearest library. I have to do some college work." *Time passes as she responds*"I would check Google Maps but my GPS is malfunctioning". *time passes as she responds*"Do you think college is worth it?"THE SPECIFIC DETAILS of this example can be altered to be more situationally relevant.  UTILIZE a woman's tendency to help others to your advantage; use every dirty trick in the book because if you don't, your competition will. If you don't fuck her, another man will.







91







LAW #46: SUMMARYLAW #46: EXPLOIT A WOMAN'S NURTURING NATURE.Don't play fair. Use every dirty trick in the book - especially during the initial pickup process. Game is manipulation.







92







LAW #47: SEDUCTION IS A LIFESTYLE.MINDSET #47: EMBRACE THE DAYGAME LIFESTYLEDaygame is the art of meeting women during the daytime, and as you go about your day (in the street, coffee shop, on the commute to work, in the grocery store or the park).THIS METHOD of meeting women saves a lot of time, has no cockblockers/competition, and allows you to meet the hottest local girls on the market. In contrast, nightclubs are packed with aggressive dudes, cockblocks, and potential distractions. YOU CAN MEET WOMEN ANYWHERE, and ANYTIME. The only thing holding you back is MINDSET.When you let go of the negative beliefs: - "Oh, I don't want to bother her."- "Oh, I'm too old/too young."- "It wouldn't work anyways".thousands of doors of opportunity will open for you. IT'S impossible to get good at a game that you don't play. The best way to learn how to meet women is to meet women every day, and then immediately (at the end of the day) reflect on the experience - asking: "What did I learn? How can I do it better?""What did I do that worked so I can do more of that?""What did I do (or lines that I said) which did NOT hit and did NOT generate results, so I can do less of that?"AS LONG AS you put in substantial real world practice every day, and reflect on what you have learned then you will eventually get good. It's just a matter of time. Think long term.DO 1-5 approaches a day for a year and you will be a pickup master. The way to get good at anything is to do a substantial amount of it everyday and then refine your methods overtime. You learn by doing, by thinking about what you are doing, and by improving how you are doing it by at least 1% each time.NO ONE ever became a master at playing the piano by reading books on the subject matter. You learn by doing!!! To get good at talking with women, talk to a lot of women!IF YOU WANT to have extraordinary beautiful women in your life then you have to embrace the lifestyle and the process of getting good. Initially don't obsessively worry about the results; just focus on developing a set of habits implemented daily designed to accelerate the learning curve. To get good at the game of seduction, you need COMMITMENT TO YOUR GOAL, and to ENJOY THE PROCESS.CREATE A TRAINING PROGRAM WITH A DAILY QUOTA FOR ACTION.Then stick to that training program every single day - no matter how you feel - no excuses - no days off. I recommend doing AT LEAST 1 APPROACH A DAY FOR A YEAR.IF YOU ALLOW for excuses to occur then there will always be a convenient excuse as to why "this day doesn't count" or "I need to take this day off". You will find yourself endlessly putting it off one day at a time for years. The secret is to have a ZERO TOLERANCE for excuses.TALK WITH STRANGERS. This is the lifestyle of successful pickup artists. They are extremely comfortable with starting and maintaining conversations with complete strangers. Practice starting conversations with strangers.THIS WILL TEACH you many insights relevant to the pickup process of women. When you practice on strangers you don't give a fuck about, there won't be psychological pain if it doesn't work out.APPROACHING IS ONLY scary until you do it. Once you do it, you realize that approaching ain't shit. Even a five year old can approach and utter some gibberish to open. It takes a Casanova to maintain a woman's attention and have her hooked into the conversation.GET into the habit of making spontaneous remarks towards strangers and then transitioning off that into a full fledged conversation. This is a very important skill to master and for practice; initially do not differentiate between sets; talk to EVERYONE.EVERY TIME YOU GO OUTSIDE, there is an opportunity to practice the art of starting conversations with strangers and accelerated emotional bonding. Practice even on the ugly girls so that way when a pretty girl comes along, you will be ready. Have a minimum number of approaches that you do everyday.PICKUP SKILLS and people's skills go well together like peanut butter and jelly. If you're good at starting conversations with strangers then you will be good at picking up girls. Getting good at Daygame will teach you what it takes to get good at the game of making money and the game of life in general.ALL YOU NEED to get results is to master one micro niche of pickup such as coffee-shop based daygame or gym based daygame. You don't have to be good EVERYTHING RIGHT AWAY. JUST MASTER ONE PATH.DOING many approaches in a specific area of your city, using the same exact opener each time, will create SITUATIONAL BASED CONFIDENCE. Once you get good at one specific model of pickup then you will gain insights and be able to expand to other models of pickup. IF YOUR SOCIAL skills are shit, then that's going to impact your ability to succeed with women. You want to be a SMOOTH PLAYER who can calibrate based on the situation, have instant sharp responses to any bullshit a woman may throw his way and appear effortless at the same time. Hence, it helps to have an active social life because that will naturally lead to developing strong social skills.REMEMBER: YOU GET GOOD AT WHAT YOU DO FREQUENTLY, so if you interact with women daily (with the intention of sharpening your skills) - as part of your lifestyle - then you will naturally have STRONG PEOPLE SKILLS. But if you're locked in an office all day, and your only interactions are (with the store clerk) when you buy coffee at Starbucks, then don't be surprised that your people skills suck. I advise having at least 30 minutes a day dedicated to just socializing and meeting new people. You'll thank me later.







93







LAW #47: SUMMARYLAW #47: SEDUCTION IS A LIFESTYLE.You get good at what you do frequently and consistently. If your idea of "getting good at game" is only reading theory then you are a fucking idiot. Skill comes from conscious relentless practice.







94







LAW #48: IMMERSE YOURSELF. BUILD YOUR ARSENAL.Read interesting things to learn interesting things to be able to say interesting things in a conversation to become AN INTERESTING PERSON. Live an exciting lifestyle doing things worth talking about and enjoying intriguing hobbies that women are curious about - that don't involve reading comic books, jerking off, Netflix binge watching, or playing video-games.IF YOU DON'T KNOW what to talk about then chances are that there isn't much happening in your life, you don't have that many things going for you, and you aren't reading enough. In that case, you have to quite literally GET A LIFE.READING IS one of the fastest ways to accumulate interesting knowledge to share with beautiful women. Take on exciting challenge. Get a cool hobby. Embark on adventure. Do daring shit. The more remarkable things that you have the balls to do, the more EPIC STORIES you will have to tell women.WHEN YOU HAVE cool hobbies and cool things going on in your life then your conversations will be much better with women because you will have exciting things to talk about, and that gives her the ability to live vicariously through you - gaining your happiness and life passion. When you have cool shit going on in your life then you will naturally be excited to share it with everyone - women included - making them a part of your life in the process. If there's nothing going on in your life then women will be turned off by a lack of ambition, purpose, and valuing the finite nature of existence.TAKE experiences from your personal life and turn them into stories. Practice saying these stories (both the short version, and long versions) a few times to get the delivery down. Go as far as even recording yourself on video to then watch yourself afterwards to assess the entertainment quality. The litmus test: if you're bored by yourself then chances are that she is bored too.CHANCES ARE that there are a lot of cool things about you; you just have to learn how to convey them to women in an interesting way. You have to learn how to talk about yourself in a way (fun, interesting, emotionally engaging, entertaining) that draws women into your world and encourages them to also reciprocate by sharing about their personal life. You can even go as far as starting a YouTube channel and shooting daily vlogs for practice.ONE OF THE key concepts is that you have to have ready material (stuff to talk about) just in case your brain goes blank in the midst of a conversation with a woman, and that material is gained through research - either by reading or by throwing yourself into interesting experiences. Men with big balls succeed with women far more than men who are afraid of living a life worth sharing.THERE IS ALWAYS something more to talk about because the world is interesting and fascinating subjects have near infinite depth. You need to start building material that you can talk to beautiful women about. Create a stack that can be used - because it has been field tested to create an enjoyable experience for women, sparks attraction and fosters connections.ARE YOU REALLY LIVING OR JUST GOING THROUGH THE MOTIONS?On your death bed, it will usually be the things that you did NOT do that, which will be cause of regret. Figure out the answer to this question: "What is my dream?""What do I want to accomplish before I die?""Where do I see myself a decade from now?""What meaningful and higher purpose do I live for?""What is the purpose of my existence?"Then attack that dream with FULL FORCE. Part of being a man of high status, is being a man on a mission - chasing his dreams and living for a purpose. HERE IS the basic formula for getting good with women: - Getting out of the house,- going to a place where there are women,- approaching some cute ones,- saying an opener to break the ice,- starting up a conversation,- escalating the vibe,- getting her number for a date two, or fucking her on the same night.OVERLY SIMPLIFIED MODEL OF SEDUCTION: Logistics: go to a place where there are women,Find: look for one woman to approach,Approach: walk up to herOpen: start the conversationQualify: compliment to justify greater levels of interestAttract: anchor good emotions with the concept of you; tease herConnect: build a commonality on core values, goals and interestsClose: create an opportunity to continue the interaction laterTHE
LEARNING
CURVE 1) take action,2) get social feedback,3) reflect on experience and use that feedback to refine the mating method,4) review the key ideas learned every morning,5) repeat cycle,TO GET A LIFE, YOU HAVE TO KILL THE TIME SINKERS.If you hang out with losers, you will become a loser. If you hang out with a woman who constantly creates energy-sucking drama over petty issues, nags and complains - wasting your time and psychological resources then you will become a loser.WHEN YOU MAKE a woman your life, you lose your own.TIME
IS
MONEY. TIME IS LIFE. YOU NEED THAT TIME TO BUILD YOURSELF UP TO BE AN APEX ALPHA







95







LAW #48: SUMMARYLAW #48: IMMERSE YOURSELF.The fastest way to learn the game is to just fucking do it. It's NOT by consuming endless amounts of theory. The best moves and lines come from spontaneous realizations in the field.Remember which behaviors have worked for your specifically to continue to replicate them in the future. Stack these moves in a series until you have a fully developed gameplan from "hello" to sex.







 







96







8 CONVERSATION MISTAKESConversation mistake #1: Being a dry communicator. Being dry means not adding any emotions behind your words. Women care more about emotional content than factual content. Inject some feeling into what you are saying. Say it like you mean it!CONVERSATION MISTAKE #2: Not having dynamic energy levels. Have fluctuating energy levels. Occasionally have a burst of energy and talk enthusiastically (the explosion tactic) - especially when talking about your passions. Then sometimes be lower energy (for contrast). In general, your energy levels should be substantially higher than hers, so as to be adding energy to the vibe. Women feed on the positive emotions and energetic vibe that men put out. Don't take this too far and be too high energy (because that's just fucking weird); meet her where she is at and then bring her up from there.CONVERSATION MISTAKE #3: Acting like a robot. You are not a clone of everyone else. Add personality to your conversation. Be willing to INJECT the "You" Factor. The conversation is merely a vehicle to convey an attractive personality. A guy with a personality is infinitely more interesting than a guy with no personality.CONVERSATION MISTAKE #4: Being formal. Formality acts like a barrier between you and her. Close friends are not formal and professional between each other. It is far better to assume a deep level of rapport and act like you've known her forever. She'll follow this frame.CONVERSATION MISTAKE #5: Talking about things she doesn't care about and not being able to recognize her body-language cues that she is bored about the subject. Be RELEVANT by talking about TOPICS that matter to her. If necessary inquire about her passions to identify these (the fishing tactic).CONVERSATION MISTAKE #6: Keeping your hands in your pockets, having a poker face & having a monotone delivery style. Use hand-gestures & an animated facial expressions to emphasize certain points when communicating. Emphasizing key points is part of being a captivating speaker.CONVERSATION MISTAKE #7: Not holding eye-contact, looking down, talking in a timid manner, lacking conviction when speaking, talking quickly, using filler-words and talking quietly. The problem with these is by displaying weak body-language, no one will take you seriously. A guy who has weak body-language can talk but his words will fall on deaf ears.CONVERSATION MISTAKE #8: Not speaking with enthusiasm. Enthusiasm is contagious. If you want her to care then you must care about what you are saying. But if you're bored then she will be bored as well. Have some fun! When you express yourself freely and enjoy yourself then she will feel at ease to do the same.THE ARGUMENT FOR COLD APPROACHNot every woman is open to the idea of starting a conversation with a stranger and pursuing something romantic with that stranger. However, there are enough women that are open to this idea to make cold approach a legitimate method for generating leads and banging pussies. Even if 99 out of 100 women rejected you but the 1 out of 100 led to a sexual relationship with a beautiful woman, cold approach was still worth it.Cold approach is a great way to practice conversation skills because you'll quickly learn what techniques work, and which techniques don't work.







97







14 IRON CLAD RULES FOR NAVIGATING THE SEXUAL MARKEPLACEIf you don't know who the sucker is, it's probably you. Here are 11 Iron Clad Rules to navigate the sexual marketplace without being fucked over like a soy boy. Remember you want to fuck - not be fucked over: 1// Don't reveal knowledge of game. Don't appear like you planned to approach her (even if you are a professional pickup-artist). Create the impression that the approach was almost an "accident" or a "spur of the moment" action while you were doing something else. Good approaches seem like natural organic conversations that "just happened" - not premeditated. Appearing to go with the flow and being completely natural has a highly disarming effect on women and makes them open up.2// Don't attach your sense of self-worth to your level of success with women. 3// Don't chase. Attract.4// Don't depend on her approval. FUCK HER APPROVAL. Focus on your goals.5// Don't show neediness. If she's worth it, show interest.6// Don't be emotionally explosive around her. Remain composed. A woman instantly loses respect for a guy if she senses that she has impacted his emotional state.7// Don't give away your social power. Frame yourself as the prize. 8// Don't compromise your sexual market value for the sake of a particular woman running "tame the Alpha" game on you.9// Don't be afraid to lose her. Always retain "walk away power" and have multiple women in your rotation.10// Don't neglect your own development the moment you get a girlfriend. Keep your skills sharp with daily practice - so if the time comes and opportunities occur, you'll be ready. 11// Don't be a pushover. Be assertive. Compromising your own values may result in decrease of self-respect and is detrimental to your sexual market value. Women come and go. PUT YOURSELF AND YOUR GOALS FIRST. Women don't value men that put women first.12// Don't game for validation. Game to get laid (or the specific end result that you want to achieve). Draw validation from within. Know what you want. Define success for yourself - without being influenced of what men view as "success".13// Have clear boundaries. If you are not assertive then women will exploit you.







98







HOW TO BE FEARLESS"Help! I am intimidated by beautiful woman. I just can't get my composure around them." Have you ever heard of a fisherman who is afraid of fish?FUCK what a woman thinks. She can take her opinion and shove it up her ass. Her perception is of no worth to you. It is meaningless. One day she will grow so that you will be absolutely disgusted by her appearance.Repeat this affirmation multiple times: "I don't give a fuck!! I don't give a fuck!! I don't give a fuck!!" Say it out-loud. WHAT MATTER IS WHAT YOU THINK.Approach Anxiety or anticipatory uncomfortable tension prior to approaching or making a move on a woman is NORMAL. Even veterans who have thousands of approaches can feel approach anxiety. The main thing is to train yourself to not allow emotional resistance to hold you back from taking action. Displine is the art of taking action no matter how you feel in the moment.THERE ARE A FEW KEYS TO OVERCOMING AA (APPROACH ANXIETY): - disassociate your identity from that emotion; you are not defined by the feelings you experience. - visualize yourself succeeding; what are you going to say to her exactly? See yourself walking up to a woman and saying the initial opening lines.- utilize affirmations.Verbalize outloud "Every approach is a success - regardless of outcome. I either get the girl or a lesson." - utilize a timer. Make a deal with yourself. You only have to be in "APPROACHING MODE" for 3 minutes, and then you'll initiate a break where you focus on recovering energy. As time goes on, your social stamina will increase and the "APPROACHING MODE" time will increase, as well. - another affirmation that is useful to say to yourself in the field is "I don't give a fuck!" Saying this mantra with feeling can make a huge difference in mitigating anxiety prior to approaching women.- reframe "anxiety" as excitement. Focus on amusement and learning. IF YOU ARE in the field, and every ounce of your being is telling you to quit because you are in emotional hell with overwhelming fear and a pounding heart, approach her anyways - because you are a man of courage with GIANT BALLS. When you are determined to WIN IN THE GAME OF LIFE, NO MATTER WHAT IT TAKES, NO MATTER HOW HARD YOU HAVE TO WORK, then the whole world will open up to you. VISUALIZE AN EXCITING VISION.SET DAILY, SHORT TERM, and LONG TERM GOALS.REVIEW THEM EVERY MORNING, PLAN and EXECUTE. 99.99% of men are dead men walking. There is no fire & passion in their eyes. They are just going through the motions. They've unconsciously given up on themselves, their ambitions and dreams. Part of being a SEXY attractive man is being a man who lives LIFE TO THE FULLEST. THERE IS MORE TO LIFE THAN SEX AND MONEY.If all you do is live for others then you may be exist, but you have never truly lived. LIVE ON YOUR OWN TERMS. There is an indescribable HIGH that comes from living a life of PURPOSE, MEANING, and TURNING YOUR DREAMS INTO A REALITY. Pussy is not the purpose of life.WHEN YOU LIVE for your life's purpose then you live a life of passion. You wake up EXCITED TO START and CONQUER THE DAY. That enthusiasm, and energy for living is SEXY. It uplifts the spirits of anyone who encounters you - women included.Eradicate weakness from your system.  Understand that fear of women is weakness. A fisherman who is terrified of fish probably won't catch much. Aim to be fearless in the field. Powerful men are sexy to women because they provide a feeling of comfort and subjective safety that women desire. This satisfies women on a primal level.Exude absolute strength and conviction in yourself to be able to handle ANYTHING that life throws your way. FUCK what she thinks.FUCK her opinion.FUCK her thoughts. Some men have spent their entire lives just to please the thoughts of a woman that they fancy. Everything they do is managed through "but would she approve?" FUCK being a slave to her validation.FUCK trying to create a positive perception.FUCK caring what people think. It's TIME TO TAKE BACK THE POWER.What matters is WHAT YOU THINK.Put your goals FIRST AND FOREMOST.Some men are so busy trying to please others they forget what they want out of the whole connection. Be aware of your goal. Keep the end goal that you have with a particular woman throughout your interactions with her.IF SHE DOESN'T PLAY by the terms of engagement that you set, get a new girl. The truth is that women desire to be swept into a man's dominant reality, exciting world and lifestyle - instead of having to bring a submissive man into her world. By entering the interaction with anxiety, you're setting the wrong kind of frame - a frame of weakness. Enter interactions as a calm relaxed man - knowing that regardless of the result: you're going to be okay.The number one way to overcome fear of the approach is to do a lot of approaches. This conditions your mind to be desensitized to the art of meeting women anytime, anywhere.







99







HOW TO PASS SHIT TESTSOften the best response to a shit test is to ignore it. Don't reinforce the low value frame that she is projecting by giving it creditability with a logical response or show of emotion. Instead disacknowledge the frame with silence.If you do respond, then use misdirection by abruptly changing the subject, orhumor (sarcastic agree and amplify to absurdity). "Do you say this to all the women?" "You are number 1,027.""How many women have you been in a relationship with?" "3 and a half."THERE ARE different kinds of shit tests.POWER PLAYA woman asks questions about stuff she doesn't care about to (get you to qualify yourself or defend yourself) for a quick ego boost. A Power Play can also come in the form of a woman telling you to do something for her. If a man gives up his power, she quickly loses respect and attraction for him.VERBAL ABUSEA woman says something that puts you in a negative light. If a man accepts this frame, she quickly loses respect and attraction for him.IT'S good practice for a man's SMV to get into the habit of keeping social power to himself.BY BEHAVING like a high status man - even around other men (friends, family or coworkers) - you create dominant attitudes and behaviors that lead to victory with women. If you spend all day being a beta male at work, don't expect to suddenly turn Alpha when there's a beautiful woman in front of you.THE EIGHT KEY MAXIMS FOR BULLETPROOF FRAME CONTROL: - Stupid questions get sarcastic answers.- Answer questions with questions.- Stupid games win stupid prizes.- No pussy is worth losing your peace of mind over.- The first rule of frame control: not every question a woman asks deserves a straight answer.- The second rule of frame control: not everything a woman says, merits a logical response.- Use silence to your advantage. A lack of verbal response is a response.- If you have a strong enough frame and say it without enough confidence, you can "get away with anything".IF A MAN TOOK everything a woman said seriously and attributed importance to it then he might lose his sanity. Women stir-up time-wasting drama about stuff they don't understand ALL THE TIME. Learn to disregard and ignore many of the random things that she says.If a woman gives you some shit, and you lose your shit, then you also lose the shit test. The best way to handle being given shit is to either ignore, deflect with humor and misdirection.Don't reinforce negative behavior by rewarding with more of your attention and emotional reactions.  Don't give it credibility by taking it seriously. Your attention is your time. Your time is worth more than money. Time is life itself. Don't give away all of your attention for free.IF A WOMAN MISBEHAVES, withdraw the amount of attention you give her.GOING on a rant is actually chasing her harder - which is the exact opposite of the optimal path. Woman misbehaves.Guy chases harder.She notices that misbehaving gets your attention, so she continues to misbehave.Guy chases even harder.A negative cycle is created.YOU HAVE to resist the temptation to chase her harder the moment she pulls away. This would only reinforce negative behavior.The more disrespect you put up with initially, the more disrespect you will have to put up with in the in the future. It always start subtly.Rule of thumb: the more disrespect you put up with, the more disrespect you will have to put up with.IT STARTS with a shit test and if you fail, it ends with her shitting on you because she sees your value as shit. The intuitive response to a shit-test for a lot of men is to get defensive and to logically justify their behaviors."I DID X because of reasons A, B, and C."JUSTIFYING yourself to her only creates a precedence for more justification and giving away your social power. Here's a better frame:"I did X because I want to do X."and an overall implied meta-frame:"I don't need to answer your questions, or explain myself to you, because you're not the boss of me."THIS IS FRAME CONTROL 101, gentlemen. There's a difference between explicitly stating the reasons why she should be with you, and simply implying these reasons through your lack of words.CONFIDENT MEN DON'T FEEL the need to compensate and convince. They simply assume the sale has already been made. Do yourself a favor and try to limit the frequency and intensity of negative emotions being transmitted to beautiful women - ESPECIALLY women that you are just meeting and starting to get to know. You haven't even had sex with her yet. She isn't worth losing your sanity, peace of mind, or your positive emotional center over. She isn't worth wasting valuable psychological resources getting into an argument with.EVEN IF SHE does things you don't like, don't get bitter. Don't rage, lash out, get defensive or lecture her. You just fucking met her. Whatever shit she throws your way, laugh it off.Deflect with humor, misdirection or just ignore it. She isn't important enough to take seriously, and get melodramatic over.You're picking up and flirting with chicks - not disarming nuclear bombs. Have fun and a good time; this will help you sustain long-term motivation. If a guy gets angry over some trivial petty issue with a woman that he literally just met then it shows that he cares too much and is already highly invested before she even proved her worth.IT'S NOT normal for a stranger to care so quickly about another stranger. Focus on having a lot of fun, and pumping your own emotional state. When you have actual fun (not fake fun), then the good emotions will spread on to her. This is much more effective at seducing women than throwing rational, logical lectures at emotional creatures. 







100







THE 6 KEYS TO PROTECTING YOURSELF AGAINST FEMALE MANIPULATION- Don't waste valuable psychological resources on dead-ends. Make moves relatively quickly to test and assess her potential, so you don't invest time in something that isn't an optimal lead.- HAVE clear boundaries and communicate them. If those are violated, walk away. Your energy is better spent on more promising leads, or generating new leads. ALWAYS ALWAYS ALWAYS retain "walk away" power. Ensure that you have leverage, and enough self-respect to keep your standards enforced. A woman can sense when a man is "bluffing" about leaving her if she violates his boundaries. If you don't have the ability to walk away then you just gave away your balls to her on a silver platter.- DON'T DO the friendship first, fucking second route. Once a woman gets used to seeing you as friend, it can be hard for her to change those behavioral patterns. Create a dominant, Rated R, man-to-woman frame from the very start and sustain it throughout the interactions.- IT'S imperative to know what you fucking want out of the field. Life rewards the "specific ask" and punishes the "vague wish"; in other words, the concrete goals should be clear in your mind. When entering pivotal situations, understand the agenda, and optimal outcome. If you don't know what you want out of the sexual marketplace and don't have a conscious plan of action then, don't expect to get it randomly. Things don't just magically fall into place as you get older; you have to consciously work towards skill to develop it, and a vision to reach it.- RESPECT yourself AND your time enough to walk away from one sided "friendships" with women who you want to fuck, or being in a sexual relationship with a woman of low quality (ugly, old, lots of attitude, gold-digging tendencies, needy, non-optimal logistics etc). Your time is worth money.- HAVE a purpose that is more important to you than pussy. If you stand for nothing, you fall for anything. If you live for a meaningful vision then you'll naturally be immune to female manipulation, and be too busy to get sucked into female drama designed to boost her ego.







101







HOW TO AVOID DISGUSTING WOMENPickup artistry is selling yourself and the idea of "being with you" to beautiful women. I emphasize "beautiful" because it's a waste of time to learn game skills just to be with ugly, fat, old girls who have attitude and emotional baggage from past relationships. IF YOU HAVE game skills and you're dealing with 6-7s then what the fuck are you doing, son? Why did you learn game just to sell yourself short? GROW SOME FUCKING BALLS and hit up 9s-10s. In the game of seduction, you get what you believe you are worthy of.A LITTLE BIT of real confidence goes a long way. Confidence comes from: - competence,- prior success with women,- knowing you have real value to offer any woman,- knowing what you bring to the table,- benevolent intent, and- a positive self-image and self-esteem. A WOMAN'S sexual nature doesn't do pity. The world is merciless on the incompetent. If you hang out with losers, you will be a loser. Choose members of your circle carefully.CREATE a peer network of positivity that is conducive to your growth. Those within your inner-circle have to pull their weight, or they are just dead weight wasting your attention, and emotional/psychological energy.  Reject women who waste your time. Be ruthlessly pragmatic. You'll thank me later.If you allow a woman into your inner-circle, she better be "pulling her weight" by having substantial value to offer. Simply existing is not considered "pulling her weight". When you have status, and you have some game skills, then you will have MANY options with women. There is no reason for you to settle for a woman who doesn't have much to offer and is wasting your time.Reject her and move on to focusing on better options.  It doesn't matter how beautiful, and how "special" you think she is; she is replaceable. Don't let your feelings trick you into thinking that she is "one of a kind"; that's just biology creating this false illusion to get you to mate (that's how mankind has survived for generations). You can always get another girl just like her or better. Keep that in mind, and you'll keep the power in your hands.Be ruthless in cutting off girls who are sexual dead-ends. Believe me, she wouldn't hesitate to block your number if she suddenly discovered that you were not as valuable as she thought she was. Don't give women an advantage that they wouldn't give you. This insight is key  .Holding on to sexual dead-ends - hoping to eventually turn things around is a HUGE WASTE OF YOUR FUCKING TIME and takes up "mental real estate". Contrary to popular opinion, it would be wise to escalate hard and burn your bridges if things go south - instead of clinging on to vapor.
This is a highly aggressive mentality towards playing the sexual marketplace but absolutely paramount to understand-especially for men who find themselves wasting away months (sometimes even years) just hoping that things will change on their own - perpetually knocking on a door sealed shut.ESCALATE hard and if things go south, walk away without ever looking back. Waiting for the perfect moment to make a move is a dead man's game because you'll grow old and die waiting. Don't wait for opportunity to strike; CREATE OPPORTUNITIES by making moves and being ruthless.







102







HOW TO AVOID ONEITISYou spent hours replaying moments that you have had with her in your mind and fantasizing about the future. Now you're surprised that you have oneits and can't undo your feelings for her? You created these conditions by pedestalizing her in your mind. HERE IS a piece of advice that is worth it's weight in gold:Don't feed illusions with actions because then the illusions will eventually feel so real that you wont be able to tell the difference between reality and falsehood. AS LONG AS you live your life with integrity and based on cold logic about the best course of right action at all times then you will have order amidst chaos, secure stability and a calm eye in any storm.The moment you feed illusions, that center becomes weakened.  If you continue to pursue an irrational path based on blind emotions and arbitrary impulses, then don't be surprised if your mind starts to slip and the lapses in self-control become greater. If you spend all your time focusing on a particular woman and neglect your own self-development then don't be surprised when other dudes get ahead of you in the game of life. Women will always choose the coolest guy that they have available to them out of their pool of options.You were busy building up her SMV (sexual market value) at a cost of neglecting your own SMV; then she left you in the dust for a guy who built up his SMV to be higher than yours. The irony is REAL. Remember: put purpose first; pussy second.







103







THE 12 KEY RULES ON HOW TO BE CONFIDENTTHE KEY MINDSETS THAT CONFIDENT MEN HAVE1// Confident men have an intense belief that they are highly valuable, what they have to offer has substantial worth, and that women would be fortunate to be with them. These mindsets aren't a gimmick or tactic, but real belief. Confident men believe in themselves truly and sincerely from the bottom of their heart. They don't pretend they believe they deserve her. They authentically believe it.REMEMBER THIS: in the game of seduction, one often gets what he believes he deserves. If you think she is out of your league, she will be. If you think she in your league, she will be. Confidence quickly becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy.Women use a man's confidence levels as a mental shortcut to assess his social status in society. Hence, it is imperative to exude EXTREME CONFIDENCE when you are in the field.2// Seize social power.
By simply assuming a position of high-status - by acting "AS IF" you are already in authority, it will be given to you. Put simply: you are a 10, so fucking act like it!! And if you are a 10, but behave like an 11 then people will simply assume that you are an 11. Women take cues on how treat you based on your self-image, and behaviors.3// Exude powerful body-language. Dominant body language is a short-cut to communicate to her primal side.  THE WORLD IS YOUR HOME. When a woman interacts with you, she is a guest and you are the host. Hence, have interactions occur on your terms. Have her play by the cards that you deal because you are at the cause - pulling strings; this is superior to always being in reaction mode.4// BE EXTREMELY AGGRESSIVE in going after what you want in life - whether its girls, business deals or any ideal that you set your mind upon. Confident men have a fierce belief in their ability to TACKLE ANYTHING that life throws at them. It's this belief that inspires women. Some men have been beta their entire lives.THEY HAVE BEEN BRAINWASHED to be chronic people-pleasers - always putting everyone's needs and goals above their own; then they get surprised "why the fuck did I get nowhere in life?" FUCK BEING NICE. Be a predator - not a prey.5// Confident men have enough self-respect and self-esteem to walk away from a connection with a woman that is no longer serving them.
They'll walk away without looking back. Why? Because they recognize their worth enough to have REAL STANDARDS and be SELECTIVE IN CHOOSING.6// Confidence comes from competence and clarity.When you know what it is that you want then you are far more likely to get it. This is a simple truth but is often not applied. Know what you want out of the marketplace. Sharpen your skills consistently and you will be sharp. 7// Confident men have assertive communication styles. Stand up for yourself. When you aren't willing to walk away from a woman (and you have no clear boundaries) then she intuitively senses that she has you by the balls, and loses respect. When respect fades, so does attraction. Always retain "walk away power". 8// Confident men are confident in their ability to win in the game of life and this turns women ON.
And that comes from winning. When one wins a lot, he starts to believe that he is a winner and that he can achieve anything that he sets his mind to. He starts to believe in himself and develops a sexy aura of "I HAVE GOT MY SHIT TOGETHER" that women find irresistible.In contrast, someone who has his entire life falling apart because he is a broke loser with a dead-end job, no marketable skills and no plan for the future.....leaks the perception of incompetence.When one is good at the game of life, he exudes a sexy confidence that communicates to others "I'VE GOT THIS. I CAN TAKE CARE OF MYSELF. And I CAN potentially TAKE CARE of ANYONE IN MY INNER-CIRCLE." It's this frame that women find sexy. 9// CONFIDENT MEN ARE SOCIALLY FEARLESS. Make moves to metaphorically take what you want in the sexual market place. Social inhibitions, hesitations and insecurities undermine confidence. Let go of being stuck in your head when interacting with women. Express yourself fully and boldly. 10// Confident men are comfortable with social tension. They don't rush to make others feel extra comfortable. Nor do they rush to appease with bribes, try extra hard, or go out of their way to impress: to compensate for them "not being enough". Instead, they confident men assume attraction. They take the frame that *she already likes them*, and that *he is enough as is*. He doesn't have to go over-the-top to compensate for insecurities, or to keep selling to someone who is already sold. IT IS ON. JUST FUCKING CLOSE. 11// Confident men are extremely comfortable in their own skin.
They are absolutely "hyper relaxed" - almost appearing to be "too relaxed". REMEMBER THIS: Calmness shows confidence; nervousness shows self-doubt. When you know you're gold, you don't feel shy or nervous. 12// Confident men are not in approval-seeking or reaction-seeking mode. Why? Because they already have approval from themselves. They don't give a fuck what you think, or if you approve because they approve themselves and that's all that matters. You won't find a confident man asking: - "Do you like me?"- "Are you having fun?"- "Is it okay if I do XYZ?"Because they have a strong sense of self-importance. "Of course, she likes me! Of course, she's having fun because she's with me!" Here is a useful psychological tactic to condition your mind:Ask yourself: "How would I act if I was 100% certain that she liked me? How would I behave if I knew I was the sexiest man alive?" Imagine and visualize it. Now behave like it was true starting THIS MOMENT! 







104







PLATE THEORYAlways juggle multiple girls to prevent yourself from living in scarcity mode, developing oneitis and turning desperate.  When you have other girls in your life, you have "fuck you sex". You know that you can walk away from any particular girl at any moment because you've got sex from multiple sources anyways. Having something is better than knowing that you can get it "in theory".The brain wants proof - not just promises. Seeing is believing.When you actually have other girls in your life, you're sexier than when you know that you can get other girls theoretically.  Social proof is often implied. When you have other beautiful women in your life, you'll unconsciously imply it and she'll be even more attracted to you.When you only have 1 beautiful woman in your life (and no social life), it shows. Always retain "walk away power".It is incredibly empowering to know that you can walk away at any moment if you wanted to whether: your boundaries were violated,she fails to meet your standards, oryou find a hotter and higher quality woman. This advice is not necessarily ethical, or politically correct. But FUCK political correctness. Don't be a slave to the culture of the times. Political correctness is meant to serve society as a whole - but not you specifically.DEVELOP THE UNFAIR ADVANTAGE.FUCK playing by the rules of society. Women are RUTHLESS in the field - mercilessly rejecting guys they deem to be of low worth. Don't give a woman an advantage that she wouldn't give you. Remember: Alpha males are extremely aggressive in going after what they want in life. 







105







THE IMPORTANCE OF STYLE; WHY DOES IT FUCKING MATTER?Women are objects of beauty and sexuality. Men are objects of success, high status and live fashion accessories to show off to her peers. This sounds dark. "Isn't there more to a human being than these superficial qualities?""I might appear like shit on the outside, but I'm amazing on the inside. Isn't that what counts most?" Answer: yes, but the masses are shallow.YOU CAN COMPLAIN about how it's unfair that people care so much about these things that they shouldn't care about, or you can play the game by its rules.  Women don't have the time to get to know every guy they cross paths with, and to give every a guy a "full chance".They rely heavily on these instant assessments as short-cuts to see if they want to invest further. Hence, your outer presentation to the world MATTERS.  There's a reason why real world pimps wore flamboyant suits.Yes, it can cost a pretty coin to dress like a boss, but it's fucking worth it. If you can't afford it then develop high-income earning skills. Further, dressing like a boss has an indirect impact of improving your confidence skills.







106







22 STEPS ON HOW TO UNFUCK YOURSELF IF YOUR LIFE IS FUCKED.Guys: - binge-sleep,- waste away tons of time playing video-games, Netflix, or watching random YouTube videos,- hang around toxic losers who have no ambitions and talk about unproductive topics,- don't take care of their own body, mind, or spirit,- lack mentors, - don't have a vision of where they want to be 5 years from now,- don't take daily substantial action to getting there,- don't have a set of daily positive habits,- don't take the time to reflect on their journey to refine their methods,- don't have a way to refuel energy And then wonder: "Why the fuck am I broke, depressed and have no cute girls in my life? Answer: you let yourself go.You haven't heavily invested time, and effort to develop yourself.YOU ARE where you are in the present because of the choices that you have made in the past.  Your past behaviors has brought you to the present. And your present behaviors will bring you to the future. It doesn't matter how badly you have fucked up. You can pickup yourself up from the ground RIGHT NOW, and START OVER.BELIEVE in the beauty of your future. HOW TO UNFUCK YOUR LIFE 1. Kill time-sinks.2. Utilize the mornings, and evenings.3. Habit stack. A habit stack is a series of positive habits that you do every morning, and evening.4. Capitalize on the commute. Fully utilize traveling time.5. Avoid toxic people. These are people that take up a lot of your psychological energy but give little in return.6. MENTOR UP. Find someone who is already successful in what you want to do, and learn from them.7. Reflect daily.8. Review your goals, and principles frequently.9. Take daily, substantial action towards your vision. 10. Continue to learn high-ROI (high return on investment) subjects.11. Sharpen your marketable skills.12. Take good care of your body.13. Don't neglect your spirit and mental health.14. Cultivate social alliances with powerful and useful contacts.15. Let go of excuses, limiting beliefs and the past. 16. Utilize the power of affirmations, mantras and self-suggestion to condition the unconscious mind.17. Invest in improvement of thy self. Invest in yourself by getting better every day.18. Keep a learning journal.19. Don't waste time in dead-end relationships.20. Approach. 21. Develop your will-power. Have the ability to take action - even when you don't feel like it and your emotions tell you to do nothing.22. When will-power fails, you will fall to the level of your system of habits. Develop a set of good lifestyle habits ("automated success"). EXUDE POWERFUL BODY-LANGUAGE. - Be loud.- Take up space.- Have fierce eye-contact.- Take a comfortable position.- Use power-postures.- Don't lean in.- Keep head straight.







107







FUCK CORONAThe secret to having a high quality life is to have high quality thoughts. Changing how you think, changes how you feel, which changes how you behave. By thinking positively, you will feel positively and that will help you take positive constructive action. FOCUS on the positive of life, feeling gratitude for your strengths/talents, and the light at the end of the tunnel ("Where will you be 5 years from now based on the current rate of progression?"). DON'T FOCUS on the negative, dwelling on the unchangeable past, and complaining bitterly about the present. THINK INSPIRATIONAL THOUGHTS TO BE IN A PERPETUAL STATE OF INSPIRATION TO TAKE RADICAL BOLD ACTION AND CONQUER LIFE!WHERE YOU ARE RIGHT NOW in life does not reflect where you will be in life in the future. While you may be dissatisfied with what where you are now, contemplate the idea that in a few years, months, weeks - or even a few days - everything can change for the positive. Where you are now in the present is based on the actions that you have taken in the past, and where you will be in the future depends on the actions that you are taking right now in the present. PUSH YOURSELF HARD EVERY DAY BECAUSE EVERY TINY AMOUNTS OF PROGRESS ACCUMULATE FAST.THE CORONA VIRUS is an interesting time period that in many ways is unprecedented. Many men are staying at home. Here's an important key to understanding this crisis: life is what you make it. Experiences are based on how you perceive reality and the effort that you put into living your best life. 5% OF LIFE IS WHAT HAPPENS TO YOU AND 95% OF LIFE IS HOW YOU RESPOND TO WHAT HAPPENS TO YOU.Life deals you a set of cards. It is your mission to use these cards to the best of your ability. One can take this time to mourn over the fact that 2020 started in an atrocious manner, or to worry about the non-controllable, but that would be a waste of valuable mental energy. Understand this mindset: if you can't change something, accept it! It is futile to worry about something that you have no control over. You can't do undo this pandemic, so why suffer the agony of being excessively fearful and worried.Sure, take basic precautions such as: avoid touching your face (eyes, mouth, and nose), or food with unwashed hands that may have been exposed to Corona,avoid areas that have a large gathering of people,wear a mask in public areas,But outside these basic precautions, use this time to develop yourself!Use this time (until a vaccine is out) to focus on your mid-game skills that involve:  texting,calling, andvideo-chatting girls.You can be extremely good at approaching women, striking up conversations, sparking attraction, but if you don't know how to follow up on the phone to set up a second date then you will get nowhere!!The phone is the bridge between the first encounter to the second meeting. Use this time to improve your phone related skill-sets.This is also a good time to sharpen online-game by messaging women on different dating sites and apps. While this is not a permanent substitute to daygame, it is a temporary one for the time being while the world's health heals (and a vaccine becomes accessible). You can sit at home and mourn, or you can use this valuable time to increase practical knowledge, sharpen valuable skills, accumulate experience and take on-screen action.Covid 19 is a storm that will pass, and when it does if you used this time to grow then you will be in an optimal position to DOMINATE.







108







CONCLUDING THOUGHTSListen to me, my dear son. Come closer because I want to tell you something important. I give you permission to let go of the past, and start over. Right now - this exact moment - is a NEW CHAPTER in your life. You can write in this chapter ANYTHING that you want.I don't just give you permission. I command it. FUCK THE PAST!!! It's over. Don't dwell on something that that is long gone because dwelling on the past, does not help the present.The past doesn't matter. The only thing that matters is WHAT YOU DO TODAY. FOCUS ON NOW. You could have been a beta male your entire life. Your past identity does not have to define the present. Burn the past to the ground.Make a fierce resolution to be a dominant Alpha - starring this exact moment. As the old weaker version of you dies, the new one emerges. BE THE MOST DOMINANT MAN IN THE ROOM.Men on the Asperger spectrum have serious difficulty reading the body-language of others, basic human social skills and even having normal male friendships.They can't even tell if the pickup tactics are working due to difficulty in detecting social cues. Yet they expect an overpriced $500 five hour course (+30 page pamphlet) on the internet from someone with dubious credentials and intentions to suddenly transform them into a Casanova overnight so they can approach women on the street and achieve same day lays. HA. Buying a product will not suddenly give you pickup skills. Even if you consume the entire product from start to finish you will still not suddenly have pickup skills.Knowledge is only half the battle. It takes tons and tons of practice to develop real skills. It takes months (and sometimes years) of conscious mental conditioning to undo years of beta male programming. YOU HAVE TO BE PERSISTENT IN APPLYING THE STUFF THAT YOU HAVE LEARNED IN THIS BOOK!! CONSCIOUS IMPLEMENTATION OF THE TECHNIQUES AND REVIEWING THE MINDSETS IS SUPER KEY.STOP looking for a quick fix. There are shortcuts, but you have to think long term. Life is a marathon. You have to pay your dues by putting in daily practice to get good conversation and the seduction game in general.AVOID THE INFORMATION TRAPYou don't need to read 494 pages on how to approach a girl before approaching a girl. Just fucking do it!! Just fucking walk up to her and say something!!! You don't need to watch a 7 hour video course to learn how to wipe the shit off your ass. Likewise, you don't need to watch a course on how to use your feet to move closer to something that you like and then open your mouth to create words that sparks an interaction. It's super simple. Learning too much advice can actually paralyze someone instead of helping them.METAPHOR: instead of simply wiping their ass they start thinking "what's the best angle to wipe? What are the top 10 best toilet papers? How many wipes?"Overthinking = stuck. Don't get stuck in a state of perpetual over-analysis and overthinking. There comes a think when one has to shut off his mind and just act.MAKE MOVES TO WIN IN THE GAME OF LIFE & SEDUCTION. And you can't win if you're too busy thinking about the moves instead of doing them.CONVERSATION IS NOT THE END GAME.Conversation should not be an endless end unto itself. The goal is continuously progress forward in the mating process. Conversation is simply that which takes up the space in between the physical moves and escalation. The purpose of conversation is to hold her attention long enough to showcase your charming and attractive personality that win over her heart, and to distract her conscious mind while you physically escalate.WHEN YOU TALK about things that you sincerely care about, you gain greater insights into them and come to understand yourself better. While you can say "all the right things", knowing how to say those things is x10 more important. How you say something is much, much, much more important than what you are actually saying. When speaking it is of paramount importance to have strong body-language (both verbal and non-verbal), a great vibe, energy, extreme confidence and to have a dynamic delivery. You can talk to anyone, at anytime and anywhere. All it takes is confidence and the willingness to take bold action.FROM THIS VERY moment and forward, unlimit yourself from limiting beliefs. NOW. You have finished this book and you have all the knowledge that you need to take action with women. Start immediately. The next time you see a cute girl, walk up to her and say something to strike up a conversation.EVERYTIME
YOU
STEP FOOT OUTSIDE YOUR DOOR, START NOTICING OPPORTUNITIES TO PRACTICE YOUR GAME SKILLS AND CAPITALIZE ON THEM. 







109







TAKE ACTION EVERY DAYMOTHERFUCKERSTOPEVERYTHINGTHAT YOU ARE DOING RIGHT NOW AND LISTEN TO ME, MOTHERFUCKER.I'M GOING to ask you to do something that is going to make you feel uncomfortable. If you do this exercise properly it might just change your life right now. This is worth your time, bitch!Take a small step outside your comfort zone
at this exact moment and ponder these potentially disturbing questions:  "What do you truly truly truly desire with women?""If you could have anything in the world with women then what would you like?""If you could live out your wildest fantasy with a woman - without any chance of failure than what would it be?"BE BRUTALLY HONEST WITH YOURSELF. Visualize that reality in your mind. Picture it CLEARLY. Listen to me my son, if you can visualize it then you can achieve it!!!!!!!YOU CAN ACHIEVE ALMOST ANYTHING WITH WOMEN THAT YOU SET YOUR MIND TO ACHIEVE. 99.99% of the limitations that you perceive are merely illusions created by social conditioning. Society brainwashed you to be a conforming sheep; unlearn that which you have learned. I hearby give you permission to be an ALPHA PREDATOR STARTING NOW.I am going to teach you how to achieve lustful physical intimacy with women. HERE IS LESSON #1, SEXY PLAYER. The secret to getting good with women is really the secret to getting good at anything: you have to do a lot of it. Humans get good at what they do frequently, BITCH!!! FUCK YOU if you disagree with this advice. I don't care how much pickup theories you know, how many books you've read, or how many hours you've spent on YouTube. If you don't actually go out, and practice the skills of meeting women EVERY DAY then your skills will remain stagnant and your results will be ZERO. Taking daily action is ABSOLUTELY PARAMOUNT. Repeat after me: I will make it a top tier priority to take action with women everyday!!!!Verbalize this right now: I will make it a top tier priority to take action with women everyday!!!!SAY IT!! I will make it a priority to take action with women everyday!!!!This means YOU. And this means TODAY.Let these self-suggestions and affirmations sink into your unconscious mind. Do you want to settle with old, ugly, fat, broke girls who gives you attitude , drain your bank account, and then have the audacity to treat you like shit? FUCK NO!!! You don't have to settle for low quality garbage when you have the skills to meet new women!!!!!Do you ever want to be in a situation where you see cute girls, but are paralyzed from taking action because you're too much of an ignorant pussy? FUCK NO!!!!! Invest in the knowledge of practical pickup, and sharpen your skills on the daily.Here's the truth: YOU can meet women ANYTIME and ANYWHERE. If you don't truly believe this then it's because you have been brainwashed by angry, hypersensitive #MeToo feminists. FUCK what they think. It's WHAT YOU THINK THAT MATTERS. Having the skills to go out TODAY and meet cute girls - who desire you - is a fucking superpower power. Learn these skills and reap the sexually charged benefits to years to come.Guys stay in shitty, toxic-as-fuck relationships because they're afraid of leaving the girl because they think: "oh no!!!!!! If this relationship doesn't work out then it would take FOREVER for me to find another girl like her." When you know you've got SOLID GAME SKILLS to approach, meet and attract new women into your life then you will be fearless in existing relationships because you retain that sexy "walkaway power" and you will have tons of options to choose a crme de la crme if you're single.INVEST IN YOURSELF by training high ROI skills every day. You'll thank me later. "In a year, you would have wished that you had started today!" So start TODAY.







 







110







THE END GAMEIf you don't know where you are going, you will get nowhere.
Take a moment to visualize your ideal self with girls. What kind of man do you want to be?What kind of high-demand skills do you want to develop?What kind of lifestyle do you want to have?What kind of beautiful girls do you want to have in your life?What kind of responses do you want to elicit from women?KNOW WHAT YOU WANT. Are you interested in being a player who gets laid with a new girl every week every time his week, or do you want to have a relationship with a single beautiful women (but have the sharp skills to get new beautiful women if you want to)?EVEN IF YOU KNOW WHERE YOU ARE GOING, YOU STILL WON'T GET THERE IF YOU DON'T WORK ON IT CONSISTENTLY. Work towards your vision every day!Let go of the need to learn pickup-skills to impress other guys. Don't game for validation. Game to achieve a specific result that is personally valuable to you. Know what the end goal is.AGAIN: if you don't know what you want, don't expect to suddenly get it. You have to know what you want out of this game, create a game-plan to get it, and consciously work on a daily basis to reach this vision.TAKE
ACTION
EVERY
DAY! WIN AT ANY COST.Sincerely,Cory Smith
           How you play the game of seduction is how you play the game of life. Dominate EVERYTHING and DOMINATE WOMEN COMPLETELY. While having strong game skills is essential to a man's path to power, it is not sufficient in itself. You must have a game plan. It's all about the lifestyle and the long term. On your current rate of progress where are you going to be five years from now?           








Table of ContentsTitle PageIntroduction***THE KEY MINDSET***HOW TO NEVER RUN OUT OF THINGS TO SAY, THE DEFINITIVE ULTIMATE GUIDEFull Page Image1. LAW #1: Be emotionally relevant.2. LAW #1: SUMMARY3. LAW #2: THE PLEASURE PRINCIPLE; Create Desire and Leave women wanting more.4. LAW #2: SUMMARY5. LAW #3: Use psychological force - if necessary. Be ruthlessly pragmatic.6. LAW #3: SUMMARY7. LAW #4: STRING THEORY; Create a vacuum. Use silence to your advantage.8. LAW #4: SUMMARY9. LAW #5: Bring her into your world more than you are brought into her world.10. LAW #5: SUMMARY11. LAW #6: THE LAW OF STATE TRANSFERENCE; Change her mood, and you'll change her mind. Be the calm anchor in her tornados.12. LAW #6: SUMMARY13. LAW #7: Spike her emotional state.14. LAW #7: SUMMARY15. LAW #8: Provoke an emotional response. Trigger her.16. LAW #8: SUMMARY17. LAW #9: Go first; then leverage reciprocity and mirroring.18. LAW #9: SUMMARY19. LAW #10: Don't chase; attract. Less is often more.20. LAW #10: SUMMARY***He who says all is boring.***21. LAW #11: Don't play the game by the rules that she sets. Pattern disrupt her BS.22. LAW #11: SUMMARY23. LAW #12: Have a mating gameplan. Rely on battle-tested skill - not hope or luck. Play unfair.24. LAW #12: SUMMARY25. LAW #13: Pace her reality to break into her reality.26. LAW #13: SUMMARY27. LAW #14: Teach her about herself.28. LAW #14: SUMMARY29. LAW #15: Polarize. Play to a sexy stereotype.30. LAW #15: SUMMARY***Focus on Triggering her Emotions.***31. LAW #16: Be a wolf in sheep's clothing.32. LAW #16: SUMMARY33. LAW #17: Read the signals.34. LAW #17: SUMMARY35. LAW #18: Be willing to compromise a woman's ego. Piss her off - if necessary.36. LAW #18: SUMMARY37. LAW #19: Hijack her brain. Disarm; then attack.38. LAW #19: SUMMARY39. LAW #20: Leave juicy bait.40. LAW #21: SUMMARY***Be polarizing.***41. LAW #21: Be the monster. Be ruthlessly pragamatic. Speak like a prophet.42. LAW #21: SUMMARY43. LAW #22: Spin women like you spin plates. Keep things fresh.44. LAW #22: SUMMARY45. LAW #23: Be dynamic. Be emotionally expressive - not emotionally reactive.46. LAW #24: Enter into a Talkative State. Embrace the flow.47. LAW#24: SUMMARY48. LAW #25: Express - not impress.49. LAW #25: SUMMARY***Value her input.***50. LAW #26: Women are disgusted by weak men. Start interactions with strength and boldness.51. LAW #26: SUMMARY52. LAW #27: Capture her attention like a police officer.53. LAW #27: SUMMARY54. LAW #28: Success with women necessitates risk.55. LAW #28: SUMMARY56. LAW #29: Feel the fear and approach anyways.57. LAW #29: SUMMARY58. LAW #30: Kill the nice-guy conversations. Add tension.59. LAW #30: SUMMARY60. LAW #31: Avoid the logic trap. Bypass the information trap.61. LAW #31: SUMMARY62. LAW #32: Hijack authority. Talk about yourself, and what you enjoy, but make it about her.63. LAW #32: SUMMARYFEEL GOOD ENERGY64. LAW #33: Flash elite status. Leverage social media. Win at any cost.65. LAW #33: SUMMARY66. LAW #34: Flirt or be friend zoned. Sustain a man-to-woman frame interaction throughout.67. LAW #34: SUMMARY68. LAW #35: Develop Emotional Intelligence (EQ).69. LAW #35: SUMMARY70. LAW #36: Kill formality. Assume familiarity. Set the frame with your behaviors. Lead by example.71. LAW #36: SUMMARY72. LAW #37: Women are value consumers. Differentiate yourself immediately. Be a giver of value.73. LAW #37: SUMMARY***Women are value consumers***74. LAW #38: Escalate the conversation.75. LAW #38: SUMMARY76. LAW #39: Have swagger. Express Your Personality Freely and Fully. Put the ART into being a pickup *ART*ist.77. LAW #39: SUMMARY78. LAW #40: Don't be predictable. Be unpredictable. Utilize the Novelty Effect.79. LAW #40: SUMMARY80. LAW #41: Create an inner-fire. Have dominant body-language.81. LAW #41: SUMMARY82. LAW #42: To attract women, become attractive. Be positive, socially competent, confident, and stylish.83. LAW #42: SUMMARY84. LAW #43: Don't be shy, drop the ball or stale out the topic.85. LAW #43: SUMMARY86. LAW #44: Let go of the quest for the perfect pickup line.87. LAW #44: SUMMARY88. LAW #45: Use her imagination.89. LAW #45: SUMMARY90. LAW #46: Exploit a woman's nurturing nature.91. LAW #46: SUMMARY92. LAW #47: Seduction is a lifestyle.93. LAW #47: SUMMARY94. LAW #48: Immerse yourself. Build your arsenal.95. LAW #48: SUMMARY***Always be closing.***96. 8 CONVERSATION MISTAKES97. 14 IRON CLAD RULES FOR NAVIGATING THE SEXUAL MARKEPLACE98. HOW TO BE FEARLESS99. HOW TO PASS SHIT TESTS100. THE 6 KEYS TO PROTECTING YOURSELF AGAINST FEMALE MANIPULATION101. HOW TO AVOID DISGUSTING WOMEN102. HOW TO AVOID ONEITIS103. THE 12 KEY RULES ON HOW TO BE CONFIDENT104. PLATE THEORY105. THE IMPORTANCE OF STYLE; WHY DOES IT FUCKING MATTER?106. 22 STEPS ON HOW TO UNFUCK YOURSELF IF YOUR LIFE IS FUCKED.107. FUCK CORONA108. CONCLUDING THOUGHTS109. TAKE ACTION EVERY DAY***THE KEY MINDSET***110. THE END GAME



