















To Liz Dunne, the woman who saw the chef in me before I even knew I was one.















INTRODUCTION20-minute DinnersLunch & BrunchVeggiesFishMeatWeekend ProjectsSweetsINDEX















IntroductionI was lucky to cook alongside my mother as soon as I could stand, and, from the first day I helped her to make dinner in our bright orange kitchen in Tallaght, Dublin, I loved it. Cooking is in my bones and sharing is in my nature. Everything about cooking suited me - and still does - from the wonderful aromas lifting from the pans and the sneaky tastes you can steal as you cook, to the fact that I am always at my best when keeping myself busy.My mother cooked everything from scratch for the four of us children, while my dad took me to street markets, butchers and fishmongers for the raw ingredients. We had homemade jam, with our own fruits that we grew out in the back garden. We ate local fish from fishmongers who my father would chinwag the day away with. Often, I'd be in the veg market with Dad buying pears and oranges by the crateful and potatoes in 25kg bags, before cheerily sitting in the back of the car as he dropped a few kilos off to his brothers and sisters around town.I was raised in a house full of music. We children would wake up in the morning to records playing. Mum would do her rounds opening all the bedroom windows (she loved a good airing of the house), and, if the freezing cold didn't wake you up, the music would. Sometimes it was Elkie Brooks, at others Van Morrison or Eric Clapton. On weekend mornings, we would shuffle downstairs in our PJs to the aroma of a Full Irish on the go. Mum would say, 'Morning, lovey', offer each of us a sausage on a fork and we would plop ourselves down as close to the telly as we were allowed to watch cartoons and eat our sausages, while waiting for Dad to get back from the baker with the bread. (As with most families, this wasn't a totally idyllic scene: often, we kids would be arguing; sometimes, we would be aiming to land a sly pinch or kick on each other without our parents spotting it...)My mother thought she was 'just' making food for us, but, looking back, I sense the warm embrace of feeling truly loved and nurtured. In a time when we think it's pzazz and wacky bubblegum cupcakes that make a childhood special, it's actually the intention behind what you give that makes family time glorious.Out of that sunny orange kitchen flew mackerel coated with oats and fried, boxty potato pancakes, Dublin coddle filled with sausages and (yes) potatoes, Irish stew, lamb chops, a seemingly endless supply of fresh scones, and always apple tart cooked on a large dinner plate.























But it wasn't all plain sailing in the kitchen for Mam. She had to navigate a brief rebellious period that followed me staying with friends and eating what their parents cooked for them. I became (briefly) enamoured with their packet sauces and microwave meals; I spurned homegrown jam and wanted shop-bought. This was a fleeting misstep, quickly rectified once I tasted the foods I thought I wanted. My mother's recipes are simple, but, as I realised, they are undoubtedly delicious.These days there is no meal I'd rather be part of than having my parents, my siblings and now our children all sit together and eat. We play music and argue, then move on and laugh and get emotional, because we are all still growing and changing. The same as happens at the kitchen table in so many other households.But what is served on that table has changed with the years. I remember the first time my mother made spaghetti bolognese for my father, back in the late 1980s. We children had eaten this delicacy a few times before and knew it was delicious, but my father's face dropped as the serving dish came to the table. He asked, 'Ah Wendy, where is the meat? Where are the vegetables? And tell me, where are the potatoes?' I am not joking when I say my father was afraid of this dinner: it was alien to him. Anyone who knows my dad will tell you he now adores good pasta; Irish food has come so far from the meat-and-two-veg of just a few decades ago and it is so exciting to be part of this food revolution. For a long time, Irish cooking languished in the doldrums: overlooked both by us Irish - not as mindful of its heritage as we might have been - and by everyone else. Happily, in recent years, the mood couldn't be more different. Irish food has everything to offer: wonderful ingredients with impeccable provenance and rich traditions, as well as a dynamic approach to modernity.I opened Myrtle, my first restaurant, in Chelsea in London in 2019. The name was inspired by legendary Irish chef Myrtle Allen, founder of famous restaurant and food hub Ballymaloe House in Cork, which has done so much for Irish food. I take humble old Irish recipes and make lighter, more elegant modern dishes that remind people of childhood flavours. I am very proud that, both at my restaurant and in this book, I've been able to adapt my mother's classic recipes to show you what modern Irish cooking really is.Every cuisine is based on what a country's people ate once upon a time and the ways in which we interpret that today. The humble dumpling appears as gnocchi in Italy, pierogi in Poland and boxty in Ireland. Similarly, moving on to eggs, we have the tortilla in Spain, the frittata in Italy and the Wicklow pancake in Ireland. Irish food is just as worthy of praise, and of study, as that of our more renowned neighbours.I'm now a restaurant owner and regularly on television as a cooking expert, but believe me when I tell you that the last twenty-odd years of my life in the kitchen have been peppered with mistakes. In fact, that is what I believe real success stands on. All great cooks and chefs have confidence because they have split a mayonnaise or overcooked a steak. They know what to avoid when it comes to choosing the right ingredients, because they have tasted an out-of-season strawberry and compared it to a strawberry picked in the warm summer months and eaten shortly afterwards. They know getting the fruit direct from the farm will make it easier for them to create something fantastic. That knowledge can only come through experience, which means trial and error.My career started almost by accident while on a summer job in Jersey. I was working in a café with a bunch of young ones all around my age and, basically, was having the summer of my life: freedom from my parents and earning money to allow me to do what I wanted. The café was directly connected to the restaurant's kitchen, a door I had never walked through. One day, I was asked to open a few cans of fruit cocktail. So I went into the kitchen... and something just clicked inside - a true eureka moment - and I flew home and burst through the door to tell my parents that I wanted to be a chef. Initially, they weren't overly impressed, and expected that my love of partying would soon make me give up this labour-intensive career choice. But my passion for eating, cooking and teaching people about food won out.So I enrolled in a professional cookery course at the DIT School of Culinary Arts and Food Technology - commonly known as Cathal Brugha Street - back in Dublin, and my professional chef career began. I started my apprenticeship at the city's L'Ecrivain restaurant under chef Derry Clarke, then soon moved to Paris to work for the famous Italian chef Gualtiero Marchesi at Hotel Lotti. My French wasn't great - and my Italian nonexistant - but it was a very exciting kitchen to be in. I probably learned more while there than in any other kitchen. I also picked up a lot about living within a budget and how to cook at home with very few resources in a kitchen the size of a dining table for two in my restaurant now. I moved to London about nineteen years ago and, while working in the city for Philip Howard, Shane Osborn and Gordon Ramsay, I learned that choosing the right ingredients at the right time can result in not only a delicious dish but a beautiful one, too. While working for those chefs, I began to understand when a plate needs more or, very often, less. They were all busy, emotionally driven restaurants. (One idea I find laughable is that women are too emotional for the job of chef; my decades of experience working almost exclusively with men has taught me that they are very emotional... but that's a book for another day.)While I was training, I chose to work in kitchens that were busy; I was alive with curiosity and excited to understand my trade. The key word there is understand. At no point did I ever dream or aspire to be a head chef, or to appear on television. For many, many years, all I wanted was to be good at my job and there was very little positive reinforcement from my bosses. If I could whisper in young Anna Haugh's ear, I might encourage her to be kinder to herself and a little happier with her own work.I can't do that for her, but I can whisper in your ear now and encourage you to pick yourself up if you have made a mistake, either while cooking or in any other area of your life. Success does not come quickly and it does not stay unless you continue to invest in it. So, my advice to anyone working hard and not seeing results is to stay calm, keep going and remember that, eventually, you will get out what you put in. I truly believe in fairness, hard work and integrity. Working on all three through thick and thin has given me a grounded sense of pride over the years. It's also taught me a lot about cooking and that's what I want to share now.Often, home cooks can imagine that cooking is complicated and that professional chefs are the only ones who know how to create magic in recipes, but that's not at all correct: if you enjoy eating and delighting in flavour, you're already halfway there. My goal with this book is to demystify the secrets of great cooking for you.To that end, from every city I've worked in, I've kept a battered, scrappy notebook crammed with the dishes and kitchen secrets I learned there. In this book, I've combined those classic recipes - as well as others from my own family - with my top insider's tips for how you can create delicious, beautiful plates of food at home with minimal fuss, and how you can elevate them to restaurant standard. Throughout, I've added my best kitchen hacks in the form of my 'Tricks of the Trade', which will allow you to understand the processes of cookery and make your recipes taste even better. In these pages, I will explain to you the importance of feeding the eye with different colours, textures and heights on a plate. Follow these flavour-packed, delicious and relatively easy recipes and your dishes can both taste and look like a professional chef created them.Some of the recipes are best for family sharing, while others are piled high and show-stopping. Others still celebrate the fact that, sometimes, less is more. In bringing together the dishes in this collection, I surprised myself with the variety of recipes that I cook often at home. Some of them are classics with a twist, and there are a few that might be new to you, but what they all have in common is that they are each a labour of love, given from me to you.















Over the years, I've shared recipes with friends and family, and it brings me so much joy when they tell me that they still use them time and again and that they're now on regular rotation in their homes. This book is my way of sharing recipes with you, too. These are dishes that are cooked from my heart, and, when you try them, I want to help you to feel that same heartbeat yourself.I believe a cookbook is something you can pass down to your kids, filled to bursting with your family-favourite recipes. While I was growing up, back in that orange kitchen, Mam had all of Darina Allen's cookbooks (Darina is the daughter-in-law of Myrtle, and also a famous alumnus of Ballymaloe House). They were small, contrasting-coloured books, each devoted to a different subject, such as meat, fish or desserts, and they were in constant use. When I was about 19, my mother bought me my first cookbook: The Naked Chef, by Jamie Oliver. To this day, I still approach certain recipes because of what I learned from that book.So why would I write a cookbook? The dual-part answer is like the two prongs of a carving fork: they only work in unison. I have a burning need to share the secrets of cooking food that has brought so much pleasure, yes, but I also want to tell you about me, my family and the people who have brought me joy and stability. Stories of happiness and solutions. Life has many burdens, but food can help us escape them. Through cooking, we can pass beautiful memories on to our children, friends and the other people we love. Through home cooking, we can nourish our bodies and feel a huge sense of achievement.You don't need to spend a fortune or be left with a mountain of mess, but even if that does happen, you will have the satisfaction of having done something great for your mind and your body. So just find a helper, stick some music on and tidy up together, to make a positive, sunny memory.I love cooking food, but not nearly as much as I love giving food to the people who are dear to me. That drive has spilled over into this book. Nothing would bring me more pleasure than knowing you use my cookbook again and again. I hope that the pages get splashed with oil and covered with the scribbled notes that turn my recipes into yours; notes of what works for you (and what doesn't), and what alterations you make when you cook a recipe again. So dig in and enjoy!Anna Haugh ∙ London, 2024







Tools of the TradeESSENTIALKNIVESI'm often asked about knives and here is the answer I give, distilled from a lifetime of kitchen work. You need a knife with a good enough quality blade that it can be resharpened over and again. The Victorinox brand are very durable and, for the price, excellent. It's these that I suggest the novice commis chefs in my restaurant should buy. I still have my Victorinox knives from my commis chef days, the same that I used when I learned how to fillet fish and chop vegetables.OFFICE KNIFEThis might seem like just an ordinary small knife, but, if kept sharp, it is extremely hard-working and versatile. Useful not just for cutting small items, but also - as a money-saving trick - to prep meat, if you haven't yet invested in a boning knife.TOMATO KNIFEA game changer: its serrated 'chainsaw' blade is great for cutting bread, all fruit and veg, as well as cooked meats. And tomatoes, of course. However, this isn't the right knife for raw meat or fish, as it will saw rather than cleanly cut flesh.TONGSThese will help you both to avoid burning your fingers and to work faster. If you invest in silicone tongs, they will protect your nonstick pans, too.WOODEN SPOONThe humblest of tools, but, centuries after their creation, cooks continue to benefit from them. Hard-wearing yet affordable, I use a wooden spoon to 'feel' the cooking through its movement and the sensations transmitted through the handle. In my restaurant kitchen, we use only wooden spoons to make risottos, to sense the texture of the rice. They are also very handy for checking if sauces such as custard are ready, again by feeling and looking for their thickness and consistency while stirring.SPEED PEELERYou should be able to pick up a speed peeler for a couple of quid and they are excellent, both at the obvious job of peeling but also for creating strips of vegetables or shavings of cheese to zhuzh up the appearance of your food. They will decrease the time it takes you to prepare dishes, and they make a great starting point for making super-thin slices before investing in a mandoline.GOOD BOX GRATERVery useful to help speed up food prep time if you want to avoid chopping everything by hand. It will also save money, as packaged pre-grated cheese costs more than the ungrated block kind.SIEVEFor sifting flour and cocoa, but also for straining stocks and custard and passing fruit purées through, to remove their seeds.WHISKA humble hand whisk costs little to buy; it takes more time to whisk ingredients manually than it does when you use electric versions, but this is a useful tool to have.PLATES AND DISHESI'm sure you haven't been eating directly off kitchen surfaces, so I'm assuming you've got these already...MINI SPIDER, OR SLOTTED SPOONSo handy when blanching and refreshing vegetables, but also when you are poaching anything that needs to be handled with care.HAND BLENDERHand or stick blenders are now easy to find and inexpensive, and you will need them to make soup or blend mayonnaise.USEFULWOODEN CHOPPING BOARDInvest in a good board and you will enjoy the prepping process more, as well as protect your knives. It doubles up as a great way to present antipasti or cheese, and, the older it gets, the more personality it develops. It has been proven that wooden boards, when cleaned regularly, can halt bacterial growth far more efficiently than plastic or glass boards.DIGITAL THERMOMETERVery useful when checking if food is cooked, but also indispensable when cooking slowly at exact temperatures.FISH SLICEThis helps you to protect food that is too delicate to lift out of a pan with a spoon, such as (obviously) a piece of fish, or maybe a hash.MICROPLANEExcellent for finishing dishes with a more elegant touch, such as adding a cloud of feather-like Parmesan, or even fine slivers of truffle.MANDOLINEAlways use the guard! A mandoline will allow you to slice perfectly and to a consistent thickness. There are different settings and teeth to use, so you can easily perform numerous different cutting techniques in a fraction of the time they would take by hand.MORTAR AND PESTLEExcellent for grinding spices and making pestos.NEXT LEVELFISH KNIFEA flexible knife that will help you navigate the bones when filleting and trimming fish.BONING KNIFEA rigid knife that you will need if you regularly take meat off the bone.TWEEZERSThese are good for more intricate plating. They take a bit of practice to master, but in the long run are worth it if you want to present plates with precision.VACUUM SEALING MACHINEAn investment, for those who are looking to add more technical, consistent and controlled cooking to their kitchens.WAFFLE IRONMore useful than you may think. You can use it to make the obvious sweet batter waffles for breakfast or dessert, but also for potato waffles, or even a more greens-rich savoury version based on grated courgette.HIGH-POWERED JUG BLENDERThese will get your purees silky-smooth, and using one tends to be the difference between restaurant and domestic purées.















20-minute DinnersCooking is a pleasure, but time is not something we all have in abundance. So to start off the book, I wanted to share recipes that don't take long, but which taste like you've been cooking all day. When you need something speedy and yummy, these are the dishes you want.The more you cook, the faster you become at getting through the prep work of chopping and whisking. But until you get to that stage, I'd suggest saving longer, more elaborate recipes for those days when you can give yourself the time and space to enjoy the process.I am not a fan of cookery books that focus on the pains of cooking, the dread of washing-up, or include recipes that are dumbed down to entice people to cook them. However, like everyone, I have many days where there isn't enough time to spend hours in the kitchen preparing a feast, so in this chapter I'm sharing with you the meals I cook at home when I am in a hurry. They are fast and they are easy, but you won't be cut short on flavour or satisfaction with any of these delicious dinners.







ORZO, FENNEL, ORANGE & FETA SALADThis salad is actually inspired by a dessert! While working for Gualtiero Marchesi in Paris, I was taught to make a simple dessert of shaved fennel, crisped in iced water, then tossed in orange segments, with pistachios sprinkled on top.You can of course serve the orzo warm, but I prefer it cold. I recommend doubling the recipe, so you can have extra to take to work the next day.SERVES 21 fennel bulb220g dried orzo2 oranges3 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil, or to taste1 teaspoon lemon juice (optional)80g feta cheese3 tablespoons finely chopped pistachio nutsleaves from 1 bunch of dill, choppedsea saltSlice the fennel bulb as finely as you can, ideally using a mandoline, if you have one. Sprinkle with a pinch of salt.Cook the orzo according to the packet instructions, then drain it in a sieve and run under cold running water to cool it rapidly. Drain very well.Meanwhile, segment the oranges. Sitting one of the fruits on its base, with a sharp knife remove all the skin and pith (the white stuff), curving the knife down the sides as though it were a barrel. Working over a bowl, slice the knife between the membranes on either side of each segment so it falls into the bowl. Repeat to peel and segment the second orange.Toss the orzo in the extra virgin olive oil, to stop it sticking together, adding the orange segments and shaved fennel. Taste for salt and acidity, adding a little lemon juice if you think it's needed.Spoon into bowls and crumble over your feta, sprinkling the pistachios and dill over the top.















BALSAMIC PRAWNS WITH CHERRY TOMATOES & CREAMY POLENTAMany years ago, while Ireland was going through the Great Famine, a large part of the population travelled to other countries to make a new life. Some settled with native Americans and told them of the strife back home. The Choctaw Nation, though they had very little money, sent a huge donation of yellow cornmeal to Ireland, saving many lives. During the Covid pandemic, the Irish government sent funds to two native American communities who were struggling, in gratitude for their kindness in our time of need. This dish is simple, and in making it, that history is remembered. It's a great quick recipe to scale up and serve from the centre of the table.SERVES 2FOR THE POLENTA600g water1 teaspoon sea salt100g quick-cook polenta50g finely grated Parmesan cheese, plus more (optional) to serve30g salted butterup to 100g milk, if neededFOR THE PRAWNS1 tablespoon vegetable oil1 garlic clove, halved300g raw prawns, deveined if needed200g cherry tomatoes, halved3 tablespoons balsamic vinegar½ teaspoon sugarpinch of chilli flakes2 handfuls of spinach, total weight about 50ggood extra virgin olive oil, to serve (optional)Bring the measured water and salt to the boil, then whisk in the polenta: it will cook very quickly. Beat in the Parmesan and butter, then taste and see if it needs more salt. Keep it warm over a low heat, covering the surface with a sheet of baking parchment to prevent a skin from forming, and stirring it occasionally, while you quickly cook the prawns.Get a frying pan hot over a high heat. Add the oil and garlic clove, then throw in the prawns and cherry tomatoes, along with the balsamic, sugar and chilli flakes. The prawns will change colour from blue to pink when they are cooked. Take them off the heat and add the spinach, stirring to wilt.Mix up the polenta once more: if it seems a little dry, add a little bit of milk at a time to loosen it up.Spoon the polenta into the middle of the plates or bowls, creating little wells in the centre of the mounds. Spoon the prawns on top. Finishing with some Parmesan and a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil is a nice touch, if you like.















COCONUT COD CURRYThis recipe works extremely well when you're in a hurry but really want something bursting with flavour. I like to eat it with plain boiled rice, or baby potatoes. You'll find curry powder mixes in the supermarket for a reasonable price, considering the number of spices that are usually in them. I like to go for a mild version, as I can then add more heat, depending on who I am cooking for.SERVES 2FOR THE COD½ teaspoon sea salt1 teaspoon mild curry powder (or see below)2 × 100-110g skinless pieces of codFOR THE SAUCE400g can of coconut milk, or 200g single cream plus 4 tablespoons desiccated coconut2 tablespoons mild curry powder, or to taste (or see below)½ teaspoon chilli flakes, or to taste, plus more to serve (optional)2 garlic cloves, halved or finely choppedbunch of coriander, stalks finely chopped, leaves kept separate½ teaspoon sea salt½ teaspoon sugar, or to tastejuice of ½ lime, or to taste, plus lime wedges to serveup to 2 tablespoons plain flour, if neededPreheat the oven to 180°C fan.Sprinkle the salt and curry powder evenly over the cod pieces and place them on a baking tray lined with baking parchment.Pour the coconut milk, or cream and desiccated coconut, into a saucepan with the curry powder, chilli flakes, if using, garlic, coriander stalks and salt. Don't be afraid to add more curry powder, if you like, though remember you can't take it out, so a guarded hand is good.Bring to the boil, then reduce the heat to a simmer. Taste for salt and adjust as needed, then add the sugar and lime juice, to taste. Remove the garlic halves, if using.Meanwhile, bake the cod in the hot oven for 8-10 minutes. Check it is cooked by doing the skewer test.The curry sauce should coat the back of a wooden spoon: when you run your finger through it, it should leave a track. If it is too thin, mix the flour in a small bowl with just enough water to make a smooth paste. Gradually add it to the sauce, stirring, until the consistency is as you prefer. When the sauce bubbles, the flour should be cooked.Serve the cod and curry sauce with boiled rice or baby potatoes and lime wedges, ripping the coriander leaves over the top. If you want an extra kick, scatter a few more chilli flakes over.Tricks of the TradeIf you want to make your own curry powder, mix together 2 tablespoons each of ground coriander and ground cumin, then blend in 1 tablespoon each of ground turmeric, chilli powder (use mild chilli powder, if you prefer) and ground ginger.















PASTA FERRARIWhen we are up against it in the restaurant kitchen, preparing the staff meal is often pushed down the to-do list until it is
nearly
too late. It is then that we turn to the kitchen staple we call Pasta Ferrari: it's fast and red, and it's always to share with people we love and care about. Because though it is utterly simple in every way, it will still
fai battere il cuore: 'make your heart race'.SERVES 2150g dried spaghetti3 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil, plus 1 tablespoon2 garlic cloves, halved½ red chilli, finely chopped, or ½ teaspoon chilli flakes400g can of chopped tomatoes2 tablespoons tomato purée½ teaspoon sugar½ teaspoon sea salt2 tablespoons finely grated Parmesan cheese, to servePrepare the spaghetti according to the packet instructions, then drain - reserving a little of its cooking water - and toss it with the 1 tablespoon of olive oil.Meanwhile, heat a large saucepan with the 3 tablespoons of olive oil, then add the garlic and cook for 2-5 minutes or until it is only just turning golden-brown (see below).Add the chilli or chilli flakes, tomatoes and tomato purée, sugar and salt and bring to the boil. Cook for 5 minutes. Beat in a little of the pasta cooking water, to give the sauce a silky quality.Serve, with the Parmesan in a bowl on the side to scatter over the top.Tricks of the TradeAs the seasons change, garlic can cook quickly or a little more slowly, depending on how much moisture is in the cloves. Because of this, spring 'wet' garlic will cook more slowly than dry winter cloves.















SUMMER BEAN BOWLWhat's great about this is that you can prepare it a day before you need it, leave it in the fridge and have it when you get home. It's also a good dish to bring on a picnic, or take for a lunch at work. Making the dressing in a jam jar also makes it great for travelling. I've kept this version vegetarian, but cooked chicken or prawns would be a nice addition.SERVES 24 tablespoons hummus200g canned mixed beans (drained weight)½ cucumber, deseeded and cut into half moons200g cherry tomatoes (about 10), halved½ yellow pepper, chopped1 carrot, grated40g baby spinach, rocket and watercress, or your favourite salad leaves1 teaspoon mixed seedsFOR MY HOUSE VINAIGRETTE2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil1 tablespoon white wine vinegar1 teaspoon honey1 teaspoon Dijon mustardpinch of sea saltPlace all the vinaigrette ingredients in a jar, seal the lid and shake it well together.Spoon the hummus into the centre of 2 bowls and then arrange all the salad ingredients except the seeds around it, each one separately so they have their own 'zones'. Sprinkle the seeds on top of it all.Shake the vinaigrette jar once more to re-emulsify, then pour it over the bean bowl and tuck in.Tricks of the TradeWhen you're thinking of making a salad, stop and ask yourself some questions. What will give it texture? How can I add colour to the plate? What extra ingredients have I got to hand that will enhance it, such as toasted nuts, crunchy croutons, edible flowers, or the beginnings of shooting herbs and salads? All these will create a salad that really catches the eye and sings to the palate.















SEA BREAM PUTTANESCAThis is the single most surprising dish I've made at home. I cannot quite believe that there is such a good recipe for which you need zero cooking ability! You will wow anyone with this. Ideally, make it in a pan that has a lid, but if you don't have a lid you can always use a large heatproof plate to cover the pan instead.I serve this with proper crusty sourdough bread and a simple rocket salad.SERVES 22 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil, plus 1 teaspoon1 garlic clove, halved2 tablespoons capers10 Kalamata olives, pitted200g cherry tomatoes, halved400g can of chopped tomatoes1 tablespoon sugar½ teaspoon sea salt2 sea bream fillets, or sea bass filletsleaves from a bunch of parsley50g rocketHeat the 2 tablespoons of oil in a frying pan over a medium heat. Add the garlic, capers and olives, stir and cook for a few minutes. Add the cherry tomatoes, chopped tomatoes, sugar and salt and let it bubble together.Add the fish skin side down, place a lid on top (or see recipe introduction) and reduce the heat to low. Cook for 6 minutes. Once it is cooked (see here), remove the lid and add the parsley.Meanwhile, mix the rocket leaves with the 1 teaspoon of oil.Serve the puttanesca with the rocket salad, with sourdough bread or toast on the side, if you like.Tricks of the TradeIf you want to make a vegetarian meal with these flavours, I find replacing the fish with vegetables that you know cook quickly - such as asparagus or bok choi - works brilliantly, because the sauce is so versatile. Either version is also great as a pasta sauce.























MUSTARD-CRUSTED SALMON & BUTTER BEAN SALADThis is a dish that you can throw together on a summer evening. It eats really well cold, so would make an ideal salad to take on a romantic picnic, along with a nice cold bottle of rosé.SERVES 2FOR THE SALAD200g canned butter beans (drained weight)2 tablespoons white wine vinegar½ teaspoon sea salt100g frozen peas, defrosted under running water and drained1 green courgette, cut into strips with a vegetable peeler, seedy core discarded1 tablespoon extra virgin olive oil1 tablespoon Dijon mustard (optional)leaves from a bunch of parsley, choppedFOR THE SALMON2 tablespoons wholegrain mustard1 teaspoon honeyjuice of ½ lemon2 salmon fillets, skin on or off, as you preferIn a bowl, combine the butter beans, vinegar and salt. Mix well, then add the peas and courgette ribbons. Finally, stir in the olive oil, Dijon mustard, if you want to give it a little kick, and parsley.Preheat the oven to 200°C fan.Mix the wholegrain mustard, honey and lemon juice together in a small bowl with a pinch of salt and smother the salmon fillets in this so they are covered all over. Set them on a small baking tray, skin side down if you are using fillets with skin. Bake for 10 minutes.Once the salmon is cooked - check by doing the skewer test (see here) - serve it hot or cold on top of the bean salad.















MUSSELS WITH HERB PESTOIf I go to a supermarket with a fish counter, I always check if they have fresh mussels or cockles. These shellfish grow so well in our waters and we really should eat them more. They are easy and quick to prepare and, to be honest, if you just cook them in a splash of white wine or water they are delicious! But if you want to make more of an effort, this recipe is still very easy but worth it. I originally made this pesto with lovage, but that is hard to find these days. Lovage grew in the wild many years ago and was a popular herb, before similar-tasting celery arrived in the seventeenth century and was regarded as a delicacy, sweeping lovage out of its path.If you want a more substantial meal, add 150g sliced boiled baby potatoes and 50g sugar snap peas.SERVES 2¼ garlic clove½ bunch of tarragon½ bunch of parsleypinch of sugar50g (about 3½ tablespoons) extra virgin olive oil600g mussels2 celery stalks, peeled and choppedfinely grated zest of 1 lemonsea saltIn the jug of a hand blender, mix the garlic, tarragon, parsley, sugar, a pinch of salt and the extra virgin olive oil. Blend until combined (see tip, below).If any mussels are open, tap them to see if they close. You are checking to see if they are alive, as they will only close if they are. Discard the shells that stay open.To prepare the mussels, pull off the 'beards', which are the hairy strands emerging from the shells and are actually bits of the rope the mussels were grown on. With a small knife, scrape off any barnacles. If any mussels are cracked, discard them. Rinse briefly to remove any debris from the shells.Place a wide-based pan with a lid over a medium heat. Tip in your mussels and celery and cook, gently opening the mussels. (If any mussels refuse to open after 5-8 minutes, discard them.)Add the herb pesto to the mussel pan and toss until fully coated, then serve steaming hot, sprinkled with the lemon zest.Tricks of the TradeWhen blending in a food processor, think of what the desired texture should be, unlike puréeing (see here) when you always want a silky-smooth result. If you are making pesto, as here, you want the ingredients united, but still to have different flecks of colour and a nubbly texture. It is a quick process and you have to watch carefully and stop when it is just right.















MONDAY NIGHT SALMON WITH CHICKPEAS, PEAS & WATERCRESSMy restaurant Myrtle is closed on Mondays. Usually, after a weekend, I want to eat something light and on the healthy side, but I never want to spend ages in the kitchen, as I've still got a lot of admin to do while the restaurant is closed. So it has worked out that I make a version of this recipe most Mondays!SERVES 22 × 100g salmon fillets, skin on or off, as you prefer200g canned chickpeas (drained weight)40g (about 2½ tablespoons) extra virgin olive oil100g frozen peasfinely grated zest and juice of 2 lemons80g watercress, or rocketsea salt and freshly ground black pepperPreheat the oven to 180°C fan.Season the salmon with salt and pepper and place on a baking tray. Cook in the oven for 10 minutes. Check it is cooked by doing the skewer test.Meanwhile, pour the chickpeas on to a large plate and crush with a fork.Put the extra virgin olive oil in a pot with a pinch of salt and add the chickpeas and your frozen peas. Set over a low heat and slowly warm up, adding the zest and juice of 1 lemon. Give it a mix and taste to see if it needs more salt (see below).Take a handful of watercress or rocket and place it in the centre of the plates.Spoon your chickpea and pea mix over and flake the salmon on top. Add the remaining lemon zest and a squeeze of the juice and you're ready to go.Tricks of the TradeSalt is an enhancer of other flavours as well as a flavouring in its own right. So if a small amount goes in at the beginning of cooking anything, it will make each ingredient taste better.















CHICKEN SATAY SALADWhen I was a kid, a 'salad' was what we actually called lettuce leaves: any of them were labelled 'salad'. I'm so amazed at how food at home and in restaurants has evolved over the years! There was a time when people thought salad was boring... for any of you who might still need convincing that is very much not true, this is the salad for you. It is the perfect meal to throw together in 10-20 minutes. If you really are in a hurry, you could slice the chicken more finely and the strips will cook in half the time.SERVES 2FOR THE CHICKEN AND MARINADE½ teaspoon ground cumin1 garlic clove, crushed2 tablespoons vegetable oil½ red chilli, finely sliced½ teaspoon sea salt2 skinless chicken breasts, each sliced into 3 lengthwaysFOR THE SAUCE1 small onion, finely chopped½ red chilli, finely sliced, plus more to serve2 tablespoons soy sauce200g coconut milk, stirred to amalgamate3 tablespoons crunchy peanut butter½ teaspoon sugarfinely grated zest and juice of 1 limeFOR THE SALAD2 heads of Baby Gem lettuce, quartered2 tablespoons mixed chopped nutshandful of coriander leavesPreheat the oven to 180°C fan.In a bowl, mix the cumin, garlic, 1 teaspoon of the oil, the chilli and salt. Marinate the chicken breasts in this for 5 minutes, then wipe the marinade off into a saucepan.Place the chicken on a baking tray and roast in the oven for 15-20 minutes.Meanwhile, put the saucepan of marinade over a medium heat and add the remaining oil, the onion, chilli, soy sauce and coconut milk. Bring to the boil, then stir in the peanut butter and sugar. Taste the sauce and add the lime zest and juice to bring it to life, then season to taste with salt.Place the lettuce on one side of the plates and the chicken on the other. Pour the sauce on top of the lettuce and scatter with more chilli slices, the chopped nuts and coriander.Tricks of the TradeThese flavours can be enjoyed hot or cold, so if you have any leftover sauce and chicken, save it in the fridge, add any chopped vegetables you have to hand and create a new version for the next day's lunch.















FENNEL SAUSAGE MEATBALLSMy partner Rich has a handful of dishes that he makes for lunches and dinners for us. He hates cooking, not because he's bad at it, but because he doesn't think the extra time spent making a dish more special is worth it. So he only makes dishes that are super-quick, involve minimum cleaning and are still delicious. This was the first recipe I taught him to make. I have lost count of how many times we have had it for dinner and it never disappoints.SERVES 28 sausages, skins removed, or 200g minced pork1 tablespoon fennel seeds3 tablespoons sunflower oil, or vegetable oil1 garlic clove, halved1 onion, finely chopped or grated½ teaspoon sea salt½ teaspoon sugar400g can of chopped tomatoes1 tablespoon tomato puréepinch of sugar (optional)handful of baby spinach150g dried linguineextra virgin olive oilParmesan cheese, to serveMix the sausagemeat or minced pork in a bowl with the fennel seeds.Place a large frying pan over a medium heat. Add the oil and, using a teaspoon, spoon the sausage or pork mix on to the hot pan. Leave until the meatballs are golden brown on their bases, then turn over.Add the garlic and onion with the salt, sugar, tomatoes and tomato purée. Bring to the boil, then reduce the heat and simmer for 5-10 minutes. Taste, and see if it needs a sprinkle of sugar, which it might if your canned tomatoes were acidic. Add the spinach and give the mixture a quick stir to wilt the leaves.Meanwhile, cook the linguine according to the packet instructions, then drain it, reserving a little of the cooking water. Return the pasta to its pan and toss it in a little extra virgin olive oil.Add a spoonful of the pasta cooking water to the sauce and stir it well, then serve the linguine with the meatballs, offering Parmesan to grate over the top.















POTATO CAKES WITH RASHERS & MUSHROOMSA great use for leftover mash and so easy that I hope it becomes a staple quick meal you can rapidly get together at home. In the restaurant, when we have a little leftover mash, I quickly throw these together to feed my whole kitchen crew. They are also lovely for breakfast if you've woken up and there's no bread in the house. You can of course remove the bacon and add asparagus spears and maybe some shavings of Parmesan, for a vegetarian version, or even just a poached egg on top.SERVES 4FOR THE TOPPING25g salted butter, plus 10-15g for the mushrooms1 garlic clove, halved8 smoked bacon rashers, snipped with scissors into strips, or 80g smoked lardons200g chestnut mushrooms, quarteredFOR THE POTATO CAKES200g cold mashed potato200g self-raising flour, plus more if needed and to dust1 egg, lightly beaten½ teaspoon sea salt2 tablespoons vegetable oilleaves from ½ bunch of flat leaf parsley80g kale, coarse ribs removed, leaves finely choppedFOR THE DRESSING4 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil2 tablespoons balsamic vinegarpinch of sugarHeat the 25g butter in a frying pan and add your garlic. Cook for 2 minutes, then add your bacon and cook for 5 minutes. Now add your mushrooms and cook for 5 minutes. Add the 10-15g butter over a low heat, stirring to create an emulsion.In a bowl, mix the potato, flour and egg with the salt. You are looking for it to be wetter than scone dough. If it's super-wet it will still work: you can spoon it into the pan like thick batter.Dust your work surface with flour and split your potato mix into 4 balls. Shape each into a patty. Preheat the oven to 175°C fan.Heat up an ovenproof frying pan with the oil and cook the potato cakes for 2-3 minutes until golden brown, then flip and pop into the oven for 5 minutes. If you don't have an ovenproof pan, lift them on to a baking tray before you put them in the oven.Meanwhile, mix all the ingredients for the dressing in a bowl with a pinch of salt. Toss the parsley and kale in the dressing and serve with the potato cakes fresh out of the oven, the mushrooms and bacon.Tricks of the TradeMixing: an important term including stirring, beating or binding with a spoon, creaming with a paddle, whipping with a whisk, or folding with a spatula. The two main goals are:Air: avoiding or encouraging more air into the recipe.Damage: you either want to cause it - as when beating to break down an ingredient - or prevent it, as you might when folding.















LAMB KOFTA WITH YOGURT DRESSING & HERBY CUCUMBER SALADA wonderful light lunch or easy dinner. Ideally you would use eight metal or wooden skewers here to form the meat around, but if you don't have those, shape the koftas into sausage shapes and fry them in a frying pan instead.MAKES 8 / SERVES 4FOR THE KOFTAS400g minced lamb1 teaspoon ground cumin½ teaspoon chilli flakes1 teaspoon dried oregano1 garlic clove, crushed1 teaspoon sea salt1 tablespoon water4 pitta breads, to serveFOR THE SALAD1 cucumber, grated½ bunch of dill, choppedleaves from ½ bunch of mintFOR THE SAUCE300g thick Greek-style yogurt2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil1 teaspoon white wine vinegar1 tablespoon fresh white breadcrumbs (optional)Preheat the oven to 190°C fan. Put the lamb in a bowl with the spices, oregano, garlic and salt and mix really well with your hands. Just as you think you have combined it enough, mix in the measured water (see below).Make 8 kofta sausage shapes around metal or wooden skewers (or see recipe introduction), then place on an oven tray and bake for 10 minutes.Meanwhile, mix together the cucumber, dill and mint in a bowl. Separately mix the Greek yogurt in a second bowl with the olive oil and vinegar, seasoning to taste with salt. If your sauce seems a bit loose - which can happen if the yogurt was runny - you might want to add the breadcrumbs to thicken it up.Pop the pitta breads in the toaster, then cut in half with scissors. Spoon the cucumber salad on to plates, spoon some of the yogurt dressing over it, then add the koftas. Serve the toasted pittas on the side, for people to stuff as they choose, along with a bowl of the remaining yogurt dressing. Tuck in!Tricks of the TradeAdding water to any meatball or burger mixture will help to keep it soft and juicy when cooked.















STEAK WITH SPEEDY ROAST NEW POTATO SALADControversially, I sometimes like a steak with a little chew to it; the chewing adds flavour. Time for a second controversial statement: sometimes fillet, to me, tastes bland. If you can give yourself the time to quickly marinate a rump steak, that will help to tenderise it and it cooks lickedy-quick. If you want to add a simple sauce, chopped capers mixed into mayo with black pepper would work very nicely.One piece of advice: get the potatoes on first, as they will take 15-20 minutes in the oven. The potato salad is lovely warm or cold, so any left over will not go to waste.SERVES 2300g baby potatoes, halved, or quartered if larger2-3 tablespoons sunflower oil, plus 1 tablespoon1 tablespoon honey1 tablespoon Dijon mustard½ bunch of chives, finely chopped, or snipped with scissors2 tomatoes, halvedpinch of sugar1 × 300g rump steak, about 2.5cm thick, at room temperaturesea salt and freshly ground black pepperFOR THE MARINADE½ teaspoon sweet paprika1 tablespoon sunflower oil⅓ teaspoon onion powder1 tablespoon extra virgin olive oilPreheat the oven to 180°C fan. Place the potatoes on a baking tray. Drizzle with 1-2 tablespoons of oil and add a sprinkle of salt. Roast for 15-20 minutes, or until you can slide a knife easily through them. Mix the honey, mustard and chives together, season with salt and toss the potatoes in it.Meanwhile, place the tomatoes on a baking tray and sprinkle with salt, the sugar and 1 tablespoon of oil. Roast for 10 minutes.Mix the marinade ingredients with 10 twists of black pepper and rub all over the steak with a pinch of salt. Set aside for 1-2 minutes while you heat a frying pan over a high heat until smoking, with the 1 tablespoon of sunflower oil.Add the steak and cook for 2 minutes; it should be golden brown. Then turn over and cook for another 2 minutes. Rest on a plate for as long as you can (5 minutes is good). Slice, then serve with the roast potatoes and tomatoes, drizzling the steak resting juices from the plate over the meat.Tricks of the TradeMarinating is more useful than you would think. It adds flavour of course, but it also helps to tenderise meat or fish. Even if you only have a couple of minutes, it will help.























Lunch & BrunchThis was a tricky chapter for me to describe to you. It's full of recipes that I really believe to be rewarding and tasty, but which perhaps don't fall into the category of what you'd call a traditional dinner, while some are probably a bit fancy to be called lunch... so I stuck 'brunch' in there to help me out a little!When you think 'brunch', you imagine something a little more special than a bit of toast and butter. So this chapter is full of salads, soups, flatbreads and pancakes - most of which would do you just fine for the middle of the day - as well as a couple of smarter or more filling options to share with anyone else who might be eating with you.Included here is my recipe for the perfect Irish soda bread, baked in bean cans, great for dipping in soups or crumbling to make breadcrumbs to toast and scatter over a salad. Or, when it gets a little stale, you can slice it thinly and pop it in the oven to make cracker breads.As with the recipes throughout this book, I've added extra nuggets of information to help you to make them more impressive, without needing a huge amount of effort. You'll find the dishes here perfect for when you want to impress over a midday meal.







GRILLED ROSEMARY FLATBREADS WITH ROASTED TOMATOES & GOAT'S CHEESEThis recipe makes two large or four smaller flatbreads. The smaller ones are a good size to freeze, then pop in the toaster straight from the freezer to use another day.If you don't have any self-raising flour, replace the amount in this recipe with plain flour and use 12g of baking powder instead of the ½ teaspoon here.SERVES 2, WITH EXTRA FLATBREAD FOR ANOTHER DAYFOR THE ROASTED TOMATOES2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil2 tablespoons balsamic vinegar1 garlic clove, sliced200g cherry tomatoespinch of sugarsea saltFOR THE FLATBREADS300g self-raising flour, plus more to dust (or see recipe introduction)½ teaspoon baking powder (or see recipe introduction)leaves from 1 rosemary sprig, chopped1 teaspoon sea salt1 teaspoon sugar300g natural yogurt20g extra virgin olive oil, plus more to brushTO SERVE2 handfuls of spinach, or rocket100g goat's cheesePreheat the oven to 180°C fan.Start with the tomatoes. Pour the oil and balsamic vinegar into an oven dish and add the garlic and cherry tomatoes, sprinkling with the sugar and a pinch of salt. Roast for 10 minutes until the tomatoes are soft and the skins have split. Leave to rest on a heatproof surface, so they can absorb the flavours, while you make your flatbreads.To make the flatbreads, place the flour, baking powder, rosemary, salt and sugar in a large bowl and mix to combine, then create a well in the centre. Add the yogurt and olive oil to the well and mix in the flour until it starts to form into a ball. If the mixture is too dry, add 1 tablespoon of water to bring the dough together. Now give it a very light knead for 1 minute, just to bring it together.Dust a work surface with flour and divide the dough into 4 pieces. Roll each piece into a circle 16-18cm in diameter with a rolling pin. Brush each flatbread with oil. Keep them on a sheet of oiled greaseproof paper ready to cook. (You can also make the recipe into 2 large flatbreads, if you prefer, though you'll need a pan big enough to cook them in.)Heat up a griddle or frying pan over a high heat until it is very hot. Place a flatbread on the pan and cook for 2 minutes, then turn over, reduce the heat to medium-low and cook for a further 3 minutes. Repeat to cook all the flatbreads (though you only need 2 for this meal).Brush 2 flatbreads with more extra virgin olive oil and place on plates. Put a handful of spinach or rocket on each flatbread along with the roast cherry tomatoes, then crumble the goat's cheese over the top to serve.















PINK PEPPERCORN & CARDAMOM GRISSINIAnything you want can go into these instead of the spices here: try chilli flakes if you like a bit of heat, or just make them plain and scatter them with sea salt flakes.The dough should be warm at all stages, as that's what makes it elastic; you don't want it to get dry or cold.MAKES ABOUT 3021g fresh yeast, or 9g dried yeast2 teaspoons sugar355g warm water40g (about 2½ tablespoons) olive oil, plus more to knead and roll520g strong white bread flour2 teaspoons fine sea salt1 egg white1 tablespoon pink peppercorns, crushedseeds from 5 green cardamom pods, crushed, or 1 teaspoon fennel seeds (optional)sprinkle of sea salt flakesPut the yeast and sugar in a bowl (crumble the yeast in, if using fresh). Very gradually add the measured warm water, mixing very well, then cover with a cloth and leave for 5-10 minutes until frothy. Stir in the 40g olive oil.Mix the flour and salt together in a large bowl. Create a well in the centre of the flour, add your yeast liquid, then mix to form a dough. Oil a work surface, then knead the dough on it with the heel of your hand for 5-10 minutes, to exercise the gluten in the flour. This mix is best kept warm, for added stretchiness.Oil a large bowl and put the dough in, oiling the surface of the dough as well. Cover with a cloth and leave in a warm place until doubled in size, which will take 1-2 hours depending on the temperature of the kitchen and the time of year.Preheat the oven to 165°C fan.Once it has doubled in size, knock the dough back by giving it a few gentle punches - let that stress out! - and re-knead briefly to remove any air bubbles. Leave it to relax on the work surface for a minute or so, to make it easier to work with.Oil a work surface and roll out the dough with a rolling pin to a rectangle measuring about 30 × 20cm. Brush with your egg white and go mad with what spices you love. I've chosen pink peppercorns and cardamom or fennel. Whichever spices you choose, you'll also want to sprinkle it with sea salt flakes.Cut the dough widthways into pieces less than 1cm thick. Pick up a piece and gently shake it, so it stretches with the effect of gravity, then put it on an oiled baking tray, with the very ends of each grissini hanging over the sides. Repeat to form all the grissini. You should get about 30 sticks.Bake for 10-15 minutes until golden brown, then leave to cool. These will keep in an airtight continer for weeks.















BAKED BEAN CAN SODA BREADGrowing up, we had fresh brown (soda) bread baked weekly by my Aunt Sadie. She measured the ingredients for it with her hands, she never used scales. My Granny Donnelly was also a great baker. I remember on Sundays, after mass, going to sit in Granny's kitchen. As my mother and Granny chatted, I stared up to the biscuit tin on the shelf, waiting on tenterhooks for the moment Granny would offer whatever baked delights she had in there. With this recipe, I've taken my talented Aunty's guesswork out of baking, and if you follow it, you are sure to be sinking your teeth into delicious homemade bread without any trouble.The traditional Irish soda bread was literally made from just buttermilk, salt, flour and bicarbonate of soda, and was best eaten on the day it was baked. I've brought the recipe up to date and added butter, sugar and egg, which makes the crumb softer and allows it to stay fresh for up to three days, so there's less chance that any of it will go to waste. If you keep it in the fridge it will last even longer and be great for toast (though not for sandwiches, if you have chilled it, as that toughens the texture).A clever way to use leftover cans from your baked beans is to wash them out and use them for this recipe. If you don't have any cans, a 500g loaf tin will do.MAKES 1 × 500G LOAF, OR 2 BAKED BEAN CAN-SIZED LOAVES, OR ENOUGH FOR 4 GENEROUSLY30g salted butter, plus more for the cans or tin300g coarse wholemeal flour, plus more for the cans or tin½ teaspoon bicarbonate of soda1 teaspoon baking powder25g demerara sugar1 teaspoon fine sea salt1 egg, lightly beaten700g buttermilkPreheat your oven to 200°C fan. Butter and flour 2 old baked bean cans, or a 500g loaf tin. It's important to have your oven preheated and your cans or tin prepared before starting the recipe, as once the dough is mixed it is best baked immediately.Melt the 30g of butter and leave it to cool slightly.Put all the dry ingredients in a large bowl and mix so they are evenly dispersed. Make a well in the centre, then add the cooled melted butter to the well with the egg and buttermilk and mix well and quickly with a spoon. Your mix should be wet and drop off the spoon.Working fast, divide the dough between the prepared cans or tin. Bake for 10 minutes, then reduce the oven temperature to 160°C fan and cook for a further 35 minutes.Take the bread out of the cans or tin and let cool. Once cool, if you wrap it in clingfilm it will stay fresh for longer. This is delicious just with butter, or wonderful with smoked salmon.















CARROT & CUMIN SOUPCarrots get a bad rep. I mean, where would we be without this humble veg? She fills up salads, Sunday roasts and hummus platters. Not only is she super-affordable, but she is bursting with goodness, she grows fast and plentifully in England and Ireland and is a vegetable to be celebrated well outside of just a role as filler.SERVES 45 large carrots, grated or finely chopped1 tablespoon cumin seeds1 tablespoon sugar, or to taste50g double cream50g salted butterabout 300g vegetable stock, or water100-200g milksea saltTO SERVE1 teaspoon salted butter, plus 1 tablespoon, at room temperature100g spinach4 tablespoons chopped pecan nuts1 tablespoon poppy seedsPut all the ingredients for the soup, except the milk, in a pot with a large pinch of salt; you need enough stock or water to come halfway up the level of the carrots.Cover and cook over a low heat for 15-20 minutes (see below). When you can squash a carrot piece between your thumb and forefinger, it is ready to be blended. Of course, if you like a bit of texture, you don't need to blend it at all. And if you prefer a smooth bowlful, feel free to blend the whole lot.However, what I do is place half the soup in a blender, add half the milk and blend. Add more milk, if needed, to achieve the consistency you're after.When the soup is silky-smooth, I return it to the pot with the unblended half. Taste for salt and sugar and add more of either as needed. Reheat until piping hot, but do not bring to the boil.When ready to serve, melt the 1 teaspoon of butter in a frying pan with a pinch of salt and set over a medium-high heat. Add your spinach and cook, stirring, until wilted down.Rub the 1 tablespoon of butter along the bottom of the bowls, sweeping upwards with a pastry brush or your thumb. Sprinkle the nuts and seeds on to the butter. Place a heaped spoon of spinach in each bowl. Pour in the soup and serve.Tricks of the TradeEven though the soup base is cooked over a gentle heat here, covering it with a lid means it is ready quickly, and also traps in all the flavours.















PARSNIP & ROSEMARY SOUPYears ago, both my sisters went soup-mad. They talked of nothing else and shared soup recipes constantly. We have all had our own versions of this warm, rich soup. You can put whatever spices you like in it and you can make it with milk, cream or coconut milk as the liquid. This is what makes home cooking so exciting: you get to choose what you think would be most delicious in your own soup.If parsnips are out of season, the same recipe works really well with the same amount of cauliflower instead.SERVES 2 GENEROUSLY500g parsnips300g milk, plus more if needed100g double cream1 teaspoon sea salt, plus more if neededleaves and stalks from 3 rosemary sprigs, separatedextra virgin olive oilPeel the parsnips, cut them in half lengthways, then into quarters. Remove the woody cores from each piece.Chop the parsnips roughly and put them in a pot with the milk, cream, salt and rosemary stalks. The liquid should come halfway up the level of the parsnips, so add a little more milk if needed.Cover with a lid and cook over a medium-low heat. Check if it's ready after 5 minutes: if you can squash a piece of the parsnip between your finger and forefinger, take it off the heat. If not, cook for a little longer until you can.Meanwhile, heat a little oil in a frying pan, fry the rosemary leaves until aromatic and crisp, then tip the oil and rosemary from the pan into a small bowl.When the parsnip is squashable, remove the rosemary stalks from the pot and blend the soup for 3-4 minutes until very silky-smooth. Add more milk if needed to achieve the consistency you prefer, then taste for salt. Reheat until piping hot, but do not bring to the boil.Serve with a drizzle of the rosemary-infused oil and sprinkled with the fried rosemary leaves, with chunks of crusty bread aliongside, if you like.















CARAMELISED SWEDE & HONEY SOUPYou could say that my motivation to write this book actually stemmed from this soup! I often spend Christmas with my sister Sarah and her family in Spain, and one year I made them this. Now, my nieces insist this is the only starter they want on Christmas Day. The idea that a dish I threw together could be so important to them made me think that, perhaps, writing a cookery book would be good, to pass recipes down through the many children in our family.On a special day such as Christmas, it's always nice to present food in the least complicated but still elegant manner. I think any home cook could do this dish justice.SERVES 41 swede, about 400g50g salted butter3 garlic cloves, chopped40g honey, or to taste500g water500g milk100g double cream20g hazelnuts10g chia seeds10g black sesame seedsleaves from ½ bunch of parsley, choppedsea saltPeel and chop the swede. Heat a large pot and add the butter. Fry the swede until golden brown on all sides, then add the garlic and stir for 1 minute. Add the honey and watch it bubble, while still stirring, for 1 minute (see below).Pour in the measured water and simmer for 10 minutes before adding the milk and cream. Bring to the boil, then reduce the heat to a simmer. Cook until you can squash the swede with the back of a spoon (30-40 minutes).Preheat the oven to 180°C fan. Tip your nuts and seeds on to an oven tray and place in the oven to toast for 4 minutes. Chop the hazelnuts and let all the nuts and seeds cool.It's now time to blend the soup. You want it to be as smooth as possible, so a jug blender is best here (see here). Once you have puréed the soup, taste it for salt and the sweetness of the honey and adjust if needed. Reheat the soup gently until just beneath the boil.Sprinkle the toasted nuts and seeds in the bowls and add the parsley. Ladle the hot soup into the bowls and serve.Tricks of the TradeBy letting honey bubble and caramelise - here and in other dishes - it both reduces its sweetness and maximises the flavour.















SMOKED SALMON CRÊPESChristmas Day was the day upon which we kids had the most exquisite treat: the Rule of all Rules could be broken. My parents were very strict about treats and sweets, but, on Christmas Day, we could wake up and devour a whole selection box for breakfast if we wanted. Then, for our 'second breakfast', we had smoked salmon. This was usually around noon, so closer to the time when most families ate their main Christmas meal. We never had our actual celebratory dinner until 7 or 8pm... how very Mediterranean of my parents ;)This recipe shouldn't be saved for a once-a-year treat. It is a birthday breakfast, or a new job lunch. It can be made in advance, so you can take it to work with you and make everyone jealous. If smoked salmon isn't your bag, cold cuts work really well in its place. And there's nothing stopping you from whipping up a batch of pancakes or crêpes just for you, as they freeze excellently (see below).MAKES 4FOR THE CRÊPES120g plain flour1 large egg, lightly beaten200g milksea salt (optional)1 tablespoon sunflower oil, or salted butter, for fryingFOR THE FILLING200g thick Greek-style yogurt, or cream cheese2 tablespoons finely chopped dill, plus more to serve2 teaspoons lemon juice (about ½ small lemon), or to taste, plus lemon wedges to serve100g smoked salmon, cut into stripssea salt and freshly ground black pepperTo make the crêpes, mix the flour and egg in a bowl, then whisk in half the milk until smooth. Add the remaining milk and whisk until combined. Add a pinch of salt if you are frying these in oil, or leave it out if using salted butter. Pour into a jug and set aside.For the filling, mix the yogurt or cream cheese, dill and lemon juice with salt and pepper in a bowl. Adjust the seasoning to taste, adding a little extra lemon juice if needed. Set aside.Brush a little oil or butter over a small nonstick frying pan, no larger than 18cm. Pour in one-quarter of the batter and swirl to cover the base. Cook for 1 minute until the base of the pancake is golden brown in places. Loosen the sides with a palette knife, then flip. Cook the other side for 40-60 seconds more. Transfer to a warmed plate while you cook the remaining 3 pancakes.Spread each crêpe with the dill mixture and top with salmon and more dill. Fold or roll them and serve with lemon wedges.Tricks of the TradeIf you make more pancakes than you need (the batter is easy to scale up), freeze with sheets of greaseproof paper between each, then use the rest when you feel like it. Anything you can do with bread can be done with a pancake. Use as a sandwich wrap, stuff with banana and chocolate spread, or bake strips in a hot oven until crispy and use as croutons for salads or soup.























SALMON STUFFED WITH HORSERADISH, WITH CUCUMBER-WATERCRESS SALADThis is a real treat on a summer's day. And it's good to scale up and serve for guests, as everything can be done in advance, except dressing the cucumber and watercress as you are about to serve. If you want to make the meal a bit more filling, some boiled baby potatoes dressed with olive oil, salt and chopped chives served alongside would be perfect.SERVES 2100g cream cheesefinely grated zest and juice of ½ lemon, plus lemon wedges to serve1 tablespoon horseradish sauce1 cucumber6 slices of smoked salmon (total weight about 120g)20g (about 1½ tablespoons) olive oil1 teaspoon honey80g watercresssea saltMix the cream cheese, lemon zest and horseradish together and taste to see if it needs some lemon juice added. Otherwise, keep that for your dressing.With a vegetable peeler, peel strips all the way down the cucumber lengthways until you get to the seeds, then stop, turn the cucumber around and repeat until you are just left with the centre seeds. Discard those.Cut your smoked salmon slices in half lengthways to create strips. Lay them on a board.Divide blobs of your cream cheese mix towards one end of each smoked salmon strip, then roll them up gently, so you don't disturb the filling. Turn over so the parcels are seam-side down.Put your olive oil and remaining lemon juice in a small bowl and add the honey and a pinch of salt to create a zingy dressing. Spoon this over your watercress and cucumber. Serve straight away with the salmon parcels and lemon wedges.Tricks of the TradeThis recipe works really well if you use the shaved ribbons of cucumber flesh (not any bits with seeds) instead of the smoked salmon, for a vegetarian version.















PAN-FRIED CHICKEN LIVERS WITH CAPERS ON TOASTI always sing my mother's praises to the high heaven regarding her cooking and home economic skills... but this time I have to say that even the greatest cooks have their Achilles heel. And liver was hers. Whenever she'd make it, she would always be sure to mention its nutritional value, in response to which eight little eyes would roll to the top of their heads with dread. She only cooked lamb's liver. Or rather overcooked it. Large pieces would drag down my throat because I tried not to chew them much - not unlike a snake tackling an egg - so I could make it all disappear as quickly as possible.But putting that aside, I'm going to show you a simple easy recipe - yes, bursting with nutrition! - that I promise won't make you roll your eyes. Or do a snake impression.SERVES 2200g chicken livers2 tablespoons vegetable oil2 tablespoons capers2 thick slices of sourdough2 tablespoons white wine, or chicken stock40g salted butterhandful of parsley leaves, plus more to servesea salt and freshly ground black pepperTake your chicken livers out of the packet and pat them dry on kitchen paper. Season with salt and pepper.Heat up a frying pan, pour in your oil and add your chicken livers. After 2 minutes, turn the livers over and add your capers. Cook for 1 minute.Meanwhile, toast the sourdough slices.Now add your wine or stock to the livers and take the pan off the heat. Stir in your butter to emulsify and finish with the parsley. Taste and adjust the seasoning. Serve the livers on the toasted sourdough with more parsley sprinkled on top.Tricks of the TradeIf you have time, try soaking the livers in a small bowl of milk for a few minutes before cooking. It both tenderises the livers and helps to purify them.















SEEDED CHICKEN NUGGETSI created this recipe while filming
Ready Steady Cook. With my heart in my mouth, I zoomed around that kitchen and unwittingly invented a go-to snack or dinner that I now regularly turn to at home.Seeds are full of fibre and very good for your gut, so the coating has more health benefits than just using the regular breadcrumbs.MAKES ABOUT 16FOR THE COATING3 tablespoons white sesame seeds3 tablespoons black sesame seeds1 tablespoon nigella seeds100g quick-cook polentaFOR THE NUGGETS2 skinless chicken breasts, or 4 skinless boneless chicken thighs, cut into small chunks¼ teaspoon sea salt, plus more for sprinkling1 egg yolk100g double creamsunflower oilfreshly ground black pepperFOR THE RED PEPPER MAYO DIP1 red pepper, deseeded and chopped1 red chilli, deseeded if you like, then chopped1 small ripe tomato, chopped1 tablespoon tomato purée2 teaspoons white wine vinegar1 egg yolk½ teaspoon caster sugar200g sunflower oilTo make the coating, mix the seeds in a bowl with the polenta and place on a biggish tray.To make the chicken nuggets, take the chicken, scrape away any sinew and cut away any fat or veins. Cut the chicken into pieces and add the salt, then place it in a food processor and blend to a paste. Add the egg yolk and a little pepper and pulse-blend to mix. Switch the processor to a slow setting and slowly pour in the cream.Scoop up 1 heaped teaspoon of the chicken mixture and push it off the spoon with your finger on to the tray of polenta and seeds. You should get roughly 16. Sprinkle the seed mix on top of the nuggets so you cover the chicken completely. Place in the fridge for 30 minutes while you make the dip.Put the pepper, chilli, tomato, tomato purée, vinegar, egg yolk and sugar into a blender and purée until quite smooth on a low speed (see here). Slowly pour the oil into it, while blending, until the dip is emulsified and thick.Back to the nuggets. Pour enough oil into a broad frying pan to cover the base by about 1cm, then place it over a medium-high heat to heat up for 2-3 minutes. (Throw in a piece of bread: when it sizzles and turns brown, the oil is ready.) Place in the nuggets with a spoon and cook for 3-5 minutes on each side side until golden brown. Drain on kitchen paper.Serve in a bowl to share, with the red pepper mayo dip.Tricks of the TradeYou don't have to fry these bad boys. They will bake very well in just 10 minutes, arranged on a baking tray and drizzled with oil, in an oven preheated to 190°C.















RICH'S 'WLC' COUSCOUSRight: couscous doesn't always get people excited, but this might.My partner Rich was taking part in a Weight Loss Challenge with two of his pals: Lee and Ian. So I created some batch-cooked recipes we could make in bulk, freeze, then defrost in individual portions to suit ourselves. This couscous was my favourite. We named it after the challenge, as we were both so satisfied with the results: it worked for weight loss and is delicious!As I type, Rich is tucking into a bowl and the smell is incredible: the fennel and cumin seeds perfume the air and I can't help but feel happy that I created something healthy, delicious and moreish.MAKES 8 GENEROUS PORTIONS, BUT FREEZES WELL3 skinless chicken breasts, cut into small bite-sized pieces4 tablespoons vegetable oil2 garlic cloves, finely chopped2 tablespoons cumin seeds3 tablespoons fennel seeds1 tablespoon chilli flakes2 onions, finely chopped or grated3 large carrots, finely chopped or grated2 red peppers, deseeded and chopped100g capers400g dried couscous300g boiling water3-5 tablespoons red wine vinegar4 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil150g frozen peas150g frozen or canned sweetcornsea saltSprinkle a little salt over the chicken pieces.Pour the oil into a large frying pan and add your garlic and a pinch of salt. When the garlic is turning brown, stir in your spices and then your onions. Cook, stirring, until the onions are sweet and soft enough to squash between your fingers. Add the chicken and cook for 7 minutes more over a low heat. Now add the carrots, red peppers and capers, stir, then cook for about 5 minutes over a low heat.Weigh out your couscous into a large bowl - there's so much food here that you might even consider using a clean washing-up basin - and pour in the measured boiling water. Leave for a minute, then stir.Add the red wine vinegar and the olive oil, with 3 teaspoons more salt (this amount of couscous needs it).Add your cooked veggies, the peas, sweetcorn and chicken to the couscous, stir well, then it's ready to eat, or bag up in portions to freeze.Tricks of the TradeThis takes only 20 minutes to make a huge amount and we then freeze it in portions. Take a portion out of the freezer the night before you need it and leave in the fridge to defrost, then eat it hot or cold for lunch.















ROASTED ASPARAGUS WITH BOILED EGGS & FRIED CHORIZOFor me, this is the ultimate fancy, celebratory brunch that I was introduced to when I first discovered the meal. Back then, chorizo could be dry and shrivelled because you could only find pre-cooked stuff, but now we can easily buy juicy sausages ready for cooking.If you are using eggs straight from the fridge, just warm them up in tap water for five or ten minutes. This stops the shells from sticking to the eggs when you come to peel them.This topping is also great with flatbreads (see here), if you haven't got any bread in the house.SERVES 22 eggs, at room temperature (see recipe introduction)1 cooking chorizo picante (hot) sausage, slicedbunch of asparagus, trimmed (see below)50g kale, coarse ribs removed, leaves chopped2 thick slices of sourdough2 heaped tablespoons thick Greek-style yogurt2 tablespoons chopped parsley leaveschilli flakes, or about ½ red chilli, very finely sliced, to serve (optional)sea saltBring a small saucepan of water to the boil. Gently add your room-temperature eggs, using a spoon to place them in the boiling water, and set a timer for 6½ minutes. Once cooked, quickly dip the eggs in cold water, tap all around the shells and peel them off. The eggs will stay warm as long as you do not leave them in the cold water.Gently fry the chorizo in a frying pan until its own oil is released and it starts to crisp up. Add your asparagus spears to the chorizo and fry for 2 minutes, then add the kale to the pan and cook for another 2 minutes, until wilted.Meanwhile, toast the sourdough slices. Cut the eggs in half and sprinkle with a little salt.Spread each slice of toast with the Greek yogurt and place on warmed plates. Top with the asparagus, chorizo, kale and eggs and scatter with the parsley. A few chilli flakes or chilli slices add a nice kick, if you like.Tricks of the TradeWhen you try to bend an asparagus spear (fresh spears will be brittle), it will snap at the point where it becomes tough. Use just the tender parts in recipes.















BOXTY PANCAKE WITH HAM HOCK & CHIVE CRÈME FRAÎCHE'Boxty on the griddle, boxty on the pan. If you can't make boxty, you'll never get a man.'There are so many crossovers in Irish cuisine. We lay claim to quite a few pancakes, some fluffy, others thin and slightly crispy like a French crêpe; these are the latter type. One piece of advice I would give you is this: as soon as you've grated your raw potatoes, make the mix and cook it straight away, as we do below.Boxty come in three forms in Ireland: as a pancake, a boiled dumpling, or a bread similar to a scone. The common thread between them all is that they are made with both cooked and raw potato. I'd imagine they were developed to make use of what you had to hand and make sure nothing went to waste. You can easily double this recipe, if you have more potato to use up.Boxty goes great with poached eggs, or flaked hot-smoked trout. I've put it here with shredded ham hock and chive crème fraîche: I love the saltiness and the cool cream alongside the hot crisp pancake.MAKES 8 / SERVES 3-4FOR THE BOXTY150g raw potato, peeled and grated½ teaspoon sea salt, plus more for the grated potato100g cold mashed potato1 egg, lightly beaten100g self-raising flour, plus more if needed½ teaspoon baking powder100g whole milkjuice of ½ lemonvegetable oilFOR THE TOPPING2 tablespoons crème fraîche, or good-quality thick Greek-style yogurt100g shredded ham hock, or good-quality ham, rolled up and sliced, to give a shredded effect½ bunch of chives, sliced or snipped with scissorshandful of rocketRinse the grated potato if needed (see below right), drain well, then pat the gratings dry with a clean tea towel. Tip them into a bowl and mix in some salt. The salt will soften the grated raw potato, so the shreds cook quickly with the pancake in the pan.Put your cold mashed potato, egg, grated potato, flour, the ½ teaspoon of salt and the baking powder into a bowl and mix well with your hands. (They are the best tools for dispersing the mash through the raw grated potato, but you can use a spoon if you prefer.) Mix your milk and lemon juice together, then stir it into the bowl.You should now have a boxty batter with a thick yogurt-type consistency. The more liquid you add to the batter, the thinner and crisper your boxty will be, which is a style I find lighter and nice in the warmer seasons. If you would like a thicker style of pancake, which can be a welcome treat in the winter, the batter will need a little more flour added to it.Heat a large frying pan over a medium heat with a little vegetable oil. Pour a ladle of your boxty batter on top, reduce the heat under the pan to low and cook until the pancake is golden on the base, then flip it over. You should be able to fit about 4 boxty in the pan at once, depending on its size (and on the size of your boxty). Keep them warm while you continue to cook the rest.Repeat to make another batch, to cook all the batter. Work quickly, as the boxty are really at their best eaten hot and fresh out of the pan.Place your boxty on a plate, spread with the crème fraîche or yogurt, evenly sprinkle over the ham hock or shredded ham and finish with a scattering of the chives and rocket.Tricks of the TradeDepending on the time of year, I wash grated potatoes. During the old crop season, which runs from September to December in the northern hemisphere, the potatoes are in great shape, their starch is strong and white and they won't need rinsing. Come springtime, the potato starches tend to be converting into sugars and often turn brown or grey quickly. Rinsing these springtime spuds will reduce the extent of that.























ULTIMATE CHEESE & HAM DOUBLE DECKER TOASTIEToasties are a staple in Dublin pubs; Grogan's and O'Donoghue's are especially famous for them. Serving them in a bar is a handy trick to keep people sinking pints of the black stuff! This toastie is a meal in itself. I first created it when I worked in Jersey, after finishing my school Leaving Cert in Dublin. I was always a huge fan of toasted sandwiches anyway, but when you cook them in a frying pan they just become next level. If you want a slightly smaller version, use just two slices of bread and divide the rest of the recipe by half.MAKES 11 tablespoon olive oil, plus 2 teaspoons (optional)1 banana shallot, sliced3 slices of bread1 tablespoon Dijon mustard50g Chedder cheese, grated2 × 10g slices of ham30g Taleggio cheese, finely sliced30g mozzarella cheese, finely sliced2 teaspoons salted butter, at room temperature (optional)sea saltFirst thing, get your shallot cooking. Heat up a small pan, add the 1 tablespoon of oil and then the shallot and a pinch of salt. Stir it over a medium heat until it starts to turn golden brown. Once that is done, you're ready to build your toastie.Preheat the oven to 180°C fan.Place the 3 slices of bread on your work surface and spread mustard on each slice. On the first slice, place your Cheddar cheese and ham. Place another slice on top of that, mustard side down. Put your caramelised shallots on top along with your Taleggio and mozzarella cheeses. Place the third slice of bread, again mustard side down, on top of this.Butter or oil the top of the toastie and place in a cold frying pan, buttered or oiled side down. Now butter or oil the side that is facing upwards. Turn the heat under the pan to medium-low and cook, turning every 2 minutes, until the sandwich gradually turns golden brown and the cheese has melted in the centre.Pop the toastie on a baking tray and put it into the oven for 10 minutes (this is especially useful if you are making a few at the same time), then use the skewer test. If the skewer comes out cold, or just warm, give the toastie another 2 minutes in the oven. If it's hot, it's ready to go. Eat straight away.























VeggiesI love vegetables and wish that I could grow them, but alas, every plant I try to nurture I end up somehow killing. I am a serial plant murderer and it breaks my heart. The only thing that makes me feel better about it is that I know what to do once I get my hands on those vegetables that someone else more green-fingered has grown!When I say I love vegetables, I'm not only talking about fancy Mexican avocados or sweet, ripe Italian tomatoes. They are easy to love and I do. But I also love proper crunchy, sweet, raw carrots; I love the thick chewy-crunchy brown jackets on baked potatoes in winter; I love it when spring comes around and everything I want to eat is the colour green, from the new broccoli spears to garlic scapes, the young stalks of garlic plants.As a chef, I've learned how to turn a humble parsnip into a hero ingredient absolutely to be celebrated (read on if you want to do the same) and that is what this chapter is all about: it's my hymn in praise of those wonderful vegetables, often ignored, that we have at our fingertips.







LENTIL RAGÙWhen I first came to London for work, about twenty years ago, as with most people starting out I wasn't paid a lot of money. I often found myself in the supermarket with about £1.20 to buy dinner for two people: me and my fella. Back then, £1.20 got you a lot more food, of course, but this recipe was (and remains) excellent to make on a tight budget.There should be enough of this sauce to give you leftovers, which make an amazing toasted sandwich filler.SERVES 5FOR THE SAUCE2 tablespoons vegetable oil, or salted butter2 garlic cloves, finely chopped1 red chilli, finely chopped, seeds left in if you want it spicy1 tablespoon cumin seeds1 large onion, finely chopped or grated1 thyme sprig200g mushrooms, chopped1 carrot, finely chopped or grated1 celery stalk, finely chopped100g red wine2 × 400g cans of tomatoes3 tablespoons tomato purée4-6 tablespoons vegetarian Worcestershire sauce1 teaspoon sea salt, or to taste2 teaspoons sugar, or to taste2 × 400g cans of brown or green lentils, drained100g double creamTO SERVE500g dried spaghetti1 tablespoon extra virgin olive oilfinely grated vegetarian Parmesan cheeseripped basil leaves (optional)Set a saucepan over a medium heat, then put in your oil or butter, garlic, chilli, cumin seeds, onion and thyme sprig and cook until the onion is sweet and soft. Add the mushrooms and continue to cook out for 10 minutes, to draw out their water. Add the carrot and celery and give it a stir.Pour in your red wine and let the mix bubble until all the liquid cooks off. Then add the cans of tomatoes, the tomato purée, Worcestershire sauce, salt and sugar and cook, stirring occasionally, for 10-15 minutes.When the vegetables are soft, add the lentils and cream and bring the sauce to the boil. Taste for salt and sweetness and add more salt or sugar, if you think the sauce needs them.Cooking dried pasta can be confusing, as it always looks like such a small amount when dry, but trust me, 90-100g of spaghetti is more than enough for each serving.Bring a large pot of salted water to the boil. Add your spaghetti and return to the boil, stirring with a large wooden spoon so the spaghetti does not stick together. Cook for 8 minutes, then drain, reserving some of the cooking water. Return the pasta to its pot and toss it in the olive oil both to stop the pasta strands sticking together and to give it a nice flavour.Quickly add a ladle of pasta cooking water to the lentil sauce and beat it in: this gives it a silky quality.Using tongs, lift the pasta and place it in the saucepan of tomatoey lentil ragù. Serve up, scattered with grated cheese and ripped basil leaves, if you like.















PEA & CHEDDAR BURGERSI created these for a guest who I hadn't realised was vegetarian. When I found out, I looked in my cupboards and pretty much all I had was a bag of frozen peas and some cheese! It didn't look like a meal, but when I put it together it turned into a burger.These are completely delicious: not only satisfying in flavour, but the texture of the seeds, the spicy horseradish kick and the sweet peas all really complement each other.MAKES 4-6150g canned butter beans (drained weight)200g frozen peas, defrosted1 egg1 tablespoon poppy seeds1 tablespoon sunflower seeds2 heaped tablespoons self-raising flour60g grated mature Cheddar cheesevegetable oilsea salt and freshly ground black pepperTO SERVEbread rolls (I used blaa rolls for the photo, traditional in Ireland)horseradish saucesliced tomatolettuce leavesTip the drained butter beans into a large bowl and mash with the end of a rolling pin. Tip in the defrosted peas and do the same. Season the mixture.Crack the egg into the mashed pea and bean mixture, add the poppy seeds and sunflower seeds and mix well.Stir in the flour, season again with salt and pepper, then add the cheese and give the mixture a good final mix.Heat up a dash of oil in a frying pan, then, using a tablespoon, spoon a big dollop of the bean mixture into the hot pan. Depending on how big you have formed them, this recipe should make 4-6 patties.While the patties are cooking, build your burger bun. Cut the bread rolls in half and dollop on some horseradish sauce straight out of the jar. Pile on the sliced tomato and lettuce.Keep checking the burgers, flipping, until golden brown on both sides. Use a spatula to transfer out of the pan straight into the bun, then serve.















NO-WASTE VEGAN PULLED PORK WITH SLAWThis is a great recipe to use up your banana skins. Yes, really. Don't worry, you don't have to make your family eat ten bananas in a day! I collected banana skins over three days and then made this dish with them. We are more aware of food waste these days and often want to buy less and act in a more sustainable way with food. Bananas are the most affordable fruit you can buy and are a firm favourite with most children. The skins are packed with fibre (something we all need in our diet every day), potassium and magnesium, which are both good for helping you to maintain good blood pressure. Once you have made this dish, you'll see that you can use banana skins in many recipes, adding them, chopped, to veggie or meat shepherd's pie, for example.Anyway, I think you might be shocked by both the simplicity and the cost savings you'll get from this recipe.SERVES 4FOR THE SLAW½ sweetheart cabbage½ teaspoon chilli flakes, or ½ red chilli, finely chopped½ teaspoon sea salt1 lime½ teaspoon sugar, or honeyFOR THE VEGETARIAN 'PORK'10 large banana skins (see here for a good recipe for the bananas themselves)1 teaspoon ground cumin½ teaspoon smoked paprika½ teaspoon chilli flakes, or ½ red chilli, finely chopped1 garlic clove, crushed1 tablespoon vegetable oil4 tablespoons water100g barbecue sauceTO SERVE4 large spoonfuls of thick Greek-style yogurt, or mayonnaise4 burger buns, or hotdog rollsleaves from a bunch of corianderStart with the slaw. Grate the cabbage and place in a large mixing bowl. In a separate small bowl, mix together the chilli and salt, then zest the lime straight into the bowl and add its juice, too. Stir in the sugar or honey until it dissolves into the mixture, then stir this dressing through the shredded cabbage. Cover and set aside, stirring occasionally to redistribute the dressing.Open a banana skin and, using the tip of a spoon, scrape out the pith, which is the white inside of the skin. This is bitter and has to be scraped away, but it's easily done with a couple of robust scrapes. Repeat to remove the pith from all the bananas.Now take a fork and scrape the cleaned banana skins very hard in lengthways strokes, hard enough to result in shredding the skins. Put the shredded banana skins into a bowl, discarding the tough end pieces.In a separate bowl, stir together the cumin, smoked paprika, chilli flakes or chilli, garlic and a pinch of salt. Mix well with the banana skins so the spices coat all the shreds, then leave to marinate for 5 minutes.Warm a large frying pan with the vegetable oil, then add the pulled spiced banana skins and fry them for 2-5 minutes. You just want to make sure the flavourings are cooked at this stage and not raw-tasting.Add the measured water and continue to cook over a medium heat. Take a shred of skin and bite it to check the consistency: you'll know it's tender enough if you like the texture, you're the boss here. If it's ready, stir through the barbecue sauce. Allow the pulled skins to cook and bubble in the barbecue sauce for 1-2 minutes.Then you're ready to build your burger. Start with putting a dollop of yogurt or mayonnaise on your bun or roll, then pile on your slaw, then add your vegetarian pulled 'pork', an extra dollop of yogurt or mayo, some chopped coriander and more slaw, if you like.Place on the top of the bun and tuck in.























MUSHROOM & LENTIL SHEPHERD'S PIEWhen you think of shepherd's pie you get a warming feeling, which is wonderful when the weather is a bit on the cold side. The dish, in all its forms, offers the relief of a comfort food, and it's often shared. So why not create that same feeling, but without the meat? This is bursting with flavour and really nutritious, and the lentils and mushrooms together give a texture and appearance similar to that of minced meat. You must cook the mushrooms long and slow, to remove their moisture.SERVES 4-5FOR THE TOPPING900g peeled potatoes50g butter1 sweet potato, grated200g milksea salt and freshly ground black pepperFOR THE FILLING3-4 tablespoons vegetable oil4 garlic cloves, finely choppedsmall bunch of thyme2 large onions, finely chopped or grated200g mushrooms, chopped3 carrots, finely chopped or grated3 celery stalks, finely chopped175g red wine3 tablespoons tomato purée400g can of chopped tomatoes2 tablespoons cornflour (optional)300g cooked lentils (I use Puy lentils, but brown lentils or even kidney beans are also good)150g frozen peassugarPut the regular potatoes in a saucepan of water, add salt and set over a high heat. When they are tender enough that you can slide a knife in, drain the potatoes, then return them to the pan, add the butter and mash. Add the grated sweet potato.Warm the milk in the microwave or a little saucepan. Add the warm milk to the potatoes gradually, beating, until you have a nice light mash (see below). Taste and add extra salt if needed.For the filling, heat the oil in a pan, add the garlic and, when it has lightly browned, add the thyme and onions. Cook until sweet and golden brown, then add your mushrooms. Cook for 10 minutes, stirring, to draw out the water. Tip in the carrots and celery and cook quickly to soften. Pour in the wine, tomato purée and tomatoes and cook for 30 minutes. If it looks a little wet, in a bowl, mix the cornflour with just enough water to form a paste and add it gradually, stirring, until the sauce coats the back of a spoon. Mix in the lentils and peas, then taste and adjust with salt and sugar as needed. Pour into a serving dish and - ideally - chill in the fridge. This makes it easier to top with the mash, otherwise that process will be a little messy.Once your mash is on top, add lots of pepper and keep in the fridge until you are ready to cook. This stays good for 3 days.Preheat the oven to 180°C fan. Cook the pie in the oven for 35-45 minutes. You'll know when it's ready, as the top will be golden brown and the sauce bubbling around the sides. Or use the skewer test.Tricks of the TradeUsing warmed milk and hot potatoes stops those tiny lumps from forming that can make your mashed potatoes grainy.















KIDNEY BEAN MEATBALLS WITH POMODORO SAUCESometimes it gets to the end of the month and you want those pennies to stretch further. Recipes such as this will give a great sense of home economy, since you'll save both money and time. Who says fast food can't be healthy? If you don't have onion powder, leave it out, or chop a few chives and add those instead.SERVES 2 GENEROUSLYFOR THE SAUCE8 tomatoes on the vine2 tablespoons tomato purée3 garlic cloves1 onion, chopped2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oilpinch of sugar3 tablespoons chopped oregano leaves, or basil or parsley leaves, plus more to servesea salt and freshly ground black pepperFOR THE MEATBALLS400g can of red kidney beans, drained50g fresh white breadcrumbs, or crushed crackers1 garlic clove, crushed½ teaspoon onion powder (or see recipe introduction)1 large egg yolkgenerous pinch of cayenne pepper1-2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oilfinely grated Parmesan cheese, to serve (optional)For the sauce, put the tomatoes, tomato purée, 2 of the garlic cloves and onion into a food processor or blender and blend.Put the oil in a casserole pot over a medium heat and add the remaining garlic clove, halved. When it is golden brown, add your blended tomato mix, bring to the boil, then add salt and the sugar. Cook the sauce for 5-10 minutes, stirring regularly.Add the oregano or other herbs and leave the sauce to simmer gently while you make your meatballs.Tip half the kidney beans into the cleaned food processor. Add the breadcrumbs or crushed crackers, garlic, onion powder, egg yolk and cayenne pepper and blend with a little pepper until the mixture comes together, adding ½ teaspoon of salt. Don't allow it to become too smooth, as the meatballs need some texture. Place the other half of the beans on a plate and crush them with a fork, then mix them into the blended mixture.Take 1 teaspoon of mix and push with your finger on to a plate. You should get 25-30 meatballs.Heat 1 tablespoon of the oil in a large nonstick frying pan and add your kidney bean meatballs. Fry for 5-6 minutes over a medium-low heat, turning once, until lightly browned on each side. Add a little more oil if needed.Gently put the browned meatballs into the sauce, turn to coat them and simmer together for 1-2 minutes more, stirring and adding a splash of water (ideally pasta cooking water, if you're serving this with pasta) to loosen the sauce if needed. Taste and adjust the seasoning. Sprinkle with extra herbs and serve the meatballs with crusty bread, or a nice bowl of pasta and grated Parmesan.















ELIZA'S PASTAMy niece Eliza arrived into this world instinctively loving good food. When she was a very little girl, she used to ask me for a 'moo cheese sandwich', by which she meant any stinky cheese that was in my fridge, Camembert and goat's cheese included!Eliza had somehow heard of this recipe and wanted to try it, so she asked her mum - my sister Sarah - if I knew how to make it. I did not, but it sounded great, so I went to the supermarket for some super-large pasta shells. As it turned out, on that day I couldn't get those, though I did find the small ones. I really doubted whether the recipe would work in small pasta shells, but in fact it turned out a treat! I have since made it with jumbo pasta shells, tubes, or even with rigatoni. Basically, any pasta that can be stuffed will work.One tip I would recommend would be to use a piping bag: the results are visually pleasing and it saves a lot of time too.SERVES 4FOR THE SAUCE40g (about 2½ tablespoons) vegetable oil2 garlic cloves, halved½ teaspoon sea salt1 oregano sprig2 red peppers, deseeded and chopped½ red chilli, finely chopped6 ripe plum tomatoes, chopped4 tablespoons tomato purée200g tomato passata1 teaspoon sugar (optional)FOR THE PASTA800g dried large conchiglie pasta shells, about 4 for each person (or see recipe introduction)250g ricotta cheese30g Parmesan cheese, finely grated, plus more to serve1 tablespoon chopped oregano leavesfreshly cracked black pepperFirst get your sauce on. Put the oil in a wide-bottomed pan and place over a medium-low heat. Add your garlic and salt, then the oregano, red peppers, chilli, tomatoes and tomato purée, Stir well, then add the passata. Leave this to simmer over a low heat for 15 minutes while you get your pasta ready.Add 1 teaspoon of salt to a large pan of water and cook your pasta shells for 2 minutes less than it says on the packet. Drain, then run them under cold water to stop the residual heat from cooking them further (see here).Preheat the oven to 180°C fan.In a bowl, mix the ricotta, Parmesan, chopped oregano and some salt and pepper. Stuff each pasta shell with this mix (this is easier if you use a piping bag).Taste the red pepper sauce and add the sugar, if needed. Pour the sauce into an ovenproof dish and nuzzle in the stuffed pasta shells so they are all cheese-side up and the sauce comes up close to their tops. Bake in the oven for 20 minutes.Scatter straight away with extra Parmesan while the pasta is still in the dish, then serve. This is good on a bed of spinach.















SPICED THREE BEAN (& CHICKPEA) RAGÙI first relied on this dish when I was living away from home for the first time, in Paris, and existing on a super-tight budget... but that doesn't mean that the recipe is in any way tight on flavour.Listen, this is a big aul' pot of goodness. The reason I've chosen to put it in this book is that sometimes - when you have a lot of people coming over - you want to make a huge batch of something amazing, but which doesn't take hours to prep and cook. This is it. You could of course add chicken pieces or even prawns at the end - you're the boss in your kitchen - but I like it vegetarian.The six tablespoons of cumin seeds is not a misprint. This is a lot of food, and the recipe warrants it all. And the lime is a key flavour here: it gives the dish a really fresh sophistication... the oils of citrus fruits are so enticing. Add a sprinkling of lime zest on the top when you serve it, too, if you like.SERVES 8-103 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil2 garlic cloves, finely sliced6 tablespoons cumin seeds, toasted2 red chillies, finely chopped3 tablespoons tomato purée2 × 400g cans of tomatoes500g vegetable stockbunch of coriander, stalks and leaves separated, stalks finely chopped2 tablespoons sea salt, or to taste200g runner beans, trimmed and chopped into diamonds3 limes, zest peeled off with a vegetable peeler, then juiced3 tablespoons sugar, or to taste400g can of haricot beans, drained400g can of kidney beans, drained400g can of chickpeas, drainedTO SERVE (OPTIONAL)baked potatoessour creamHeat up the oil in a casserole pot, add the garlic and cook for 2 minutes, then add your cumin and chillies and cook for 1 more minute.Add your tomato purée, canned tomatoes, stock, coriander stalks and salt and bring to the boil.Meanwhile, blanch the runner beans in a separate saucepan of boiling water for 2 minutes, or until soft and al dente (the time they take will depend on their age), then drain.Add the lime zest to the tomato sauce, only adding the pieces that you will be able to fish out. Now add the sugar, then tip in your canned beans and chickpeas. Return the stew to the boil. Taste for salt and sugar and adjust if necessary.Add the lime juice bit by bit, tasting as you go to get the right flavour balance.When ready to serve, fish out the lime zest pieces, stir in the runner beans and sprinkle with the coriander leaves. This is perfect served with baked potatoes and sour cream.















JERUSALEM ARTICHOKE VEGAN RISOTTORisotto is associated with fine dining and luxury, but that is puzzling to me. You don't need any fancy equipment or expensive ingredients and you can make it from start to finish in 20 minutes. The base of all risottos is just garlic, onion, oil, rice and stock and you get to choose what to flavour it with after that. This is easy, and, if you have any left over, it makes a great arancini ball (see below).If you haven't used nutritional yeast flakes before, they give a good cheesey flavour to vegan food.SERVES 2FOR THE RISOTTO2 tablespoons olive oil, plus more (optional) to serve2 shallots, finely chopped2 garlic cloves, crushed150g Jerusalem artichokes, peeled and grated250g arborio rice2 tablespoons white wine vinegar800g hot vegetable stock3-4 tablespoons soy cream4 tablespoons nutritional yeast flakes (see recipe introduction)2 tablespoons soy saucesqueeze of lemon juiceTO SERVEfinely chopped parsley leaveschopped chivesnutmegTo make the risotto, heat the oil in a pan and fry the shallots and garlic for a few minutes until softened. Add half the grated artichoke and all the rice. Pour in the vinegar and allow the liquid to be absorbed, then reduce the heat to low.Over this low heat, pour in about 200g of the stock and cook, stirring occasionally. Once all the liquid has been absorbed, add half the remaining stock and repeat. Taste the rice and, if it is still too hard, add the remaining stock, though you may not need it all. The risotto will take 15-18 minutes to cook, gently bubbling away, absorbing the stock. Stir as frequently as you feel you can, as that will release the starches from the rice for a creamy texture. And don't worry: whatever you may have heard, risotto will still work even if you're not standing slaving over it and stirring constantly.To finish, stir in the remaining grated artichoke, then add the soy cream, yeast flakes, soy sauce and lemon juice. Stir well and check that the risotto is not too dry. It may need more liquid, so if you have run out of stock, add a little water.Sprinkle with a little olive oil, if you like, then scatter with the herbs and grate over some nutmeg to serve.Tricks of the TradeForm cooked, chilled risotto into balls, dip each ball in batter (use the batter for Henry's chicken goujons, using a vegan Worcestershire sauce alternative), then into a dish of panko crumbs to coat all over. Deep-fry until golden all over and serve with a tomato-based dipping sauce (see here), if you like.























PARSNIP & OREGANO FRITTERSThis recipe works with all root vegetables: carrot, swede or even celeriac, all full of fibre, full of goodness. So often we just boil these vegetables - serving them as something on the side to bulk out the meal - but they are wonderful as the star of the show and make a great snack, perfect for party food.SERVES 2 FOR LUNCHFOR THE FRITTERS1 large parsnip, peeled and grated1 spring onion, sliced1 teaspoon sea salt1 tablespoon plain flour1 tablespoon cornflour1 egg, lightly beaten (or see below for a vegan alternative)leaves from 1 oregano sprig, chopped1-2 tablespoons olive oil, plus more if needed1 garlic clove, halvedFOR THE DIP3 tablespoons mayonnaise (vegan, if needed)1 tablespoon tomato purée½ teaspoon chilli flakesleaves from 1 oregano sprig, choppedpinch of sugarMix the parsnip, spring onion and salt together in a bowl. Stir in the plain flour and cornflour, then the egg, and finally the oregano.Heat the oil in a frying pan over a medium heat.Spoon heaped tablespoons of your parsnip mix into the pan: they should sizzle on arrival! If they don't, wait another minute before you start spooning them in. Cook over the medium heat for 2 minutes until golden, then turn over and cook until golden brown on both sides. Sometimes, if they aren't brown enough, I keep turning them until they're brown, crispy and delicious. Just at the end, put the garlic clove in to flavour them.Mix all your dip ingredients together in a bowl, stirring in a pinch of salt.Enjoy the fritters straight away with the dip, or let them cool and take them with you for an on-the-go lunch.Tricks of the TradeIf you don't have an egg, or want to keep the recipe vegan, replace the egg with a spoon or two of water and replace the mayo in the dip with vegan mayo.























FishGrowing up, we would often eat fish at least three times a week. Mam fed us fish for nutrition, while Dad fed us fish for the pure delight of it. I have vivid memories of glorious gurnard dinners and of my father, tea towel thrown over his shoulder, big chopping knife in his right hand and sneaky Guinness in his left (perfectly poured). If I'm honest, when my dad cooked, there wasn't a huge variation in the meal he produced, though the type of fish would change. His style was: knob of butter in a frying pan; sliced onions and mushrooms in; a bit of Mam's stock; a red pepper; a few herbs. That would be the sauce. Greek salad on the side. Then the grilled fish, often red or grey gurnard; he'd always get a good deal on gurnard, so he'd be delighted with himself.Dad would go to the fishmonger and quiz them to bits. He now does this to me and it drives me round the bend, because he listens to none of the answers and just does his own thing... but he really enjoys the discussion, so I can't help getting sucked in each time. His heartfelt appreciation of food and its wonders is something I am grateful to have been raised with, but if I'm truly honest, I'm very lucky that my mother was such a great cook: it was the magical combination of Dad's excitement and Mam's talent that pulled out some wonderful meals.Some of the recipes in this chapter may sound fancy, but they usually aren't complicated or time-consuming. We often see the humble fish pie as easy - when actually a piece of roasted cod with a white wine sauce is something you could whip up in a fraction of the time - so while my dad's fish pie is pretty great, don't forget to try something new to you, too.







DAD'S FISH PIE FROM HOWTHAs far back as I can remember, my father Joe took me to street markets, butchers and fishmongers. He loves food and understands it, but often doesn't have my mother's patience when it comes to recipes. If I had a pound for every time my father called me asking me for a recipe - and then did the complete opposite of what I had advised - I'd be a rich woman. I concluded he wasn't writing anything down and just assumed he'd remember it. So, instead of relying on the phone, I started to cook recipes with him when I was home. He would often command my niece Katelyn, or my sister Sarah, to write down what we were doing. So, I started to write the recipes down myself, give them to him, then show him how to make them, too. This resulted in my father really getting stuck in.Here is a recipe my father managed to follow once, before he lost the scrap of paper. Now, he asks me for it every six weeks (and then loses the paper again). It has parsnips, cabbage and caraway, but trust me, it is delicious. I use smoked fish for a more complex flavour which, in the right amount, does not overpower the pie. Plus because Joe Haugh flippin' loves smoked fish.SERVES 4FOR THE TOPPING1kg Rooster potatoes, or any all-rounder potatoes1 teaspoon sea salt50g salted butter, plus more if needed100g warm milk, or as needed1 egg yolkFOR THE FILLING400g mussels50g salted butter1 garlic clove, finely sliced1 teaspoon caraway seeds1 onion, chopped¼ white cabbage, chopped2 parsnips, peeled and grated200g white wine50g (about 3½ tablespoons) water100g double cream250g milk2 tablespoons plain flour200g skinless natural smoked haddock, chopped into 2cm cubes100g skinless salmon fillet (my mother's absolute favourite), chopped into 6 piecesfreshly cracked black pepperThe first job is to get that buttery mash on the go. Peel your potatoes, cut them in half and put them in a pot of cold water with the salt. Set over a high heat and bring to the boil, then reduce the heat to a simmer and cook until you can slip a small knife into a potato with ease. (If you try to cook your potatoes in already-hot water, they are likely to overcook on the outside but be hard on the inside. As with most root veg, they are best started in cold water.)Push the hot potatoes through a potato ricer, or use a masher (see overleaf). Add the butter and warm milk until the mash is soft enough to make little peaks. Taste your mash: you're tasting for salt and butter and the decision is in your hands whether to add more. Stir in the egg yolk.If any mussels are open, tap them to see if they close. You are checking to see if they are alive, as they will only close if they are. Discard the shells that stay open. To prepare the mussels, pull off the 'beards', which are the hairy strands emerging from the shells and are actually bits of the rope the mussels were grown on. If any mussels are cracked, discard them. Rinse briefly to remove any debris from the shells.For the filling, melt the butter in a large pot over a medium heat and add your garlic and caraway. Stir for a minute, then add your onion and a pinch of salt. Cook over a low heat until the onion can be squashed between your finger and thumb. Next add your chopped cabbage and grated parsnips, pour in the wine and cook for a further 5 minutes.Add your mussels with the measured water and, with the lid off, cook on a simmer. You have the chance to delight in watching your mussels pop open while cooking! Scoop them out as they pop open, to avoid them overcooking, stirring from time to time so all the shells have a chance to get close to the heat. Let the mussel stock absorb into your vegetables, creating some real magic. When you have spooned your mussels out of the pot and they are cool enough to handle, remove the meat from the shells. (If any mussels refuse to open after 5-8 minutes, discard them.) Pass the mussel juices through a sieve into the pan with the vegetables, then stir in the cream and milk.Mix your flour in a small bowl with a little water to make a smooth paste, then stir this into the vegetables once the mixture is bubbling. Once the flour is cooked (a matter of 1-2 minutes), pour the sauce into your pie dish, which should measure 25-28cm in diameter, or the equivalent.Place your chopped fish on top with your mussels evenly, then layer your mash on that. Your pie is now ready to go in the oven, or to be covered and popped in the fridge for a later time.Preheat the oven to 200°C fan.Cook the pie in the oven for 30 minutes if you're doing it straight away, or for 45 minutes if it is from the fridge. What you're looking for is fish pie that is golden brown and measures 65°C in the centre on a temperature probe, or use the metal skewer test (see opposite).When your pie comes out of the oven, generously crack black pepper over the top.I love to serve fish pie with a crunchy salad, or with peas.Tricks of the TradeOnce your potatoes are cooked, it's best to finish the mash straight away. This is because the potato starch is at its prime and is ready to absorb the maximum amount of milk and butter. Push the potatoes through a potato ricer, or use a masher. Add the butter and warmed milk. If you make mash with cold potatoes, their starch is 'set' and isn't ready to absorb liquids, so, when you stir, the starch begins to become gluey.The skewer test: fishTake your fish out of the oven, steamer or frying pan and put a skewer into the top middle of the protein, touching the base of the tray or plate it is resting on. Leave for 10 seconds, making sure you hold your thumb on the skewer at the top of where the protein is, then remove the skewer and place it on the inside of your wrist. This is something you must get a feel for and isn't as tricky as you think, once you do it a few times. I recommend checking the temperature of your fish every 2 minutes and feel the temperature rise on your wrist, resulting in you instinctively teaching yourself. 
Delicate white fish and salmon = warm-hot = 50°C 
Meaty monkfish = slightly hotter = 58°C It is easier to cook fish when you have a temperature probe, since fish is ready at a lower temperature than meat. White fish is cooked when the flesh flakes. White fish such as cod, halibut and haddock as well as salmon should produce a skewer that feels warm-hot (and/or measure 50°C). Monkfish is a meaty fish and tends to need a slightly higher temperature, so the skewer should feel slightly hotter (58°C). I still recommend resting all fish, as residual heat (see here) will keep it cooking as it sits.















MARINATED FISH CAKESI love fish cakes. We grew up eating a lot of fish, as my father loves going to the fishmonger for a good chat, while buying kilos of fish. He has checked behind my mother's ears to see if she has sprouted gills, since she eats so much salmon... Fish cakes can be made from leftovers, but also can celebrate your favourite fish. It is so easy to add different spices and flavours to them, and here I use mustard, a handy ingredient not to be saved for sandwiches!There are hundreds of fish cake recipes online, but they can lack seasoning and interest. I've kept this recipe simple, but with an explosion of flavour. By marinating your fish first, you get flavour to its core, while by flavouring the mash with smoked mackerel you create layered deliciousness in every bite. What fish you use is up to you; I've chosen salmon, but haddock or basa work, too.SERVES 2 AS A MAIN COURSE, OR 4 AS A STARTERFOR THE FISH AND MARINADE½ garlic clove, crushed2 tablespoons olive oil1 teaspoon Dijon mustard1 teaspoon sea salt1 tablespoon Lilliput or Nonpareil (small) capers, plus more (optional) to serve1 tablespoon chopped dill200g skinless salmon fillet, choppedFOR THE FISH CAKES200g mashed potato1 smoked mackerel fillet, skinned and chopped150g panko crumbs, plus more if needed50g plain flour, plus more to dust and coat2 tablespoons vegetable oillemon wedges, plus finely grated lemon zest (optional), to servesea saltFOR THE HERBY MAYO3 tablespoons mayonnaise, or thick Greek-style yogurt1 teaspoon Dijon mustard1 tablespoon chopped tarragon leaves, plus more (optional) to serve2 tablespoons chopped dill leaves, plus more (optional) to serve2 tablespoons chopped parsley leaves, plus more (optional) to serveMix together all the ingredients for the marinade in a bowl and gently stir in the salmon chunks. Marinate for at least 10 and up to 30 minutes.Now make the fish cakes. Add the mash to the salmon and marinade with the smoked mackerel and a pinch of salt and mix well with your hands. If the mash was a little wet, you may need to add more panko crumbs to help the mix come together.Dust a work surface and your hands with flour and shape the mixture into 4 good-sized fish cakes, flattening them into discs. Dip the fish cakes into more flour to coat all over.In a flat dish, mix the 50g flour with a pinch of salt, then pour in enough water, stirring, to form a batter about as thick as double cream. (If you stick your finger in, the batter should coat it.)Put the panko crumbs in another flat dish.Dip the floured fish cakes in the batter to coat all over, then into the panko crumbs, again until entirely covered.Heat the oil in a frying pan over a medium heat. Add the fish cakes and cook for 5 minutes, until they start to turn golden brown on the bottom. Use a fish slice or large spatula to gently turn them over and continue to cook for 3-5 minutes until golden brown.Meanwhile, mix all the ingredients for the herby mayo in a bowl.Spread a teaspoon of the herby mayo on top of each fish cake; this not only adds flavour but helps to hold the herbs, capers and lemon zest in place, if you're feeling that way inclined.On each plate, dollop a heaped spoon of herby mayo. Put a fish cake half on the herby mayo, then scatter over herbs, capers and lemon zest, if you like. Serve with lemon wedges. These are lovely with a salad.Tricks of the TradeIf you think you won't need all four fish cakes at the same time, they freeze well. Cook them from frozen, with a drizzle of oil on top, in an oven preheated to 190˚C fan for 30 minutes, turning them over halfway through.























OAT-CRUSTED HAKE WITH SMOKED MACKEREL SAUCEThere are many ingredients which are unfairly dismissed, and, in my opinion, oats are one of those. There is a lot more you can use them for than just porridge. Since they usually come priced very affordably and in a big bag, I have a few recipes for quick and easy ways to use them up (see here and here). And eating oats regularly can help to reduce your cholesterol.Ireland and Scotland are two countries whose climate isn't great for growing wheat, but is suitable for oats. As a kid, when my mother pressed oats on to the skin of mackerel, I just thought it was another of her money-saving hacks, but actually it's something many of our Celtic ancestors would have done.SERVES 240g jumbo oats, or use porridge oats if you can't find jumbo20g (4 teaspoons) vegetable oil, plus more for the oats40g sesame seeds10g coriander seeds2 × 150g skin-on hake pieces1 egg white80g spinach3 tablespoons House vinaigrette, or Airing-cupboard vinaigrette (see here and here)sea saltFOR THE SAUCE1 garlic clove, crushedthyme sprig25g salted butter, plus a knob for the spinach½ onion, chopped50g (about 3½ tablespoons) white wine150g milk50g double cream2 fillets of smoked mackerel, skinnedfreshly ground black pepperPreheat the oven to 180°C fan.Rub the oats in oil and a pinch of salt, put them on a baking tray and pat into an even layer. Bake for 8 minutes. At the same time, place the sesame seeds and coriander seeds on 2 separate small baking trays and bake in the oven for 5 minutes for sesame, and 3 minutes for coriander. Mix together the oats and toasted seeds, then tip on to a sheet of kitchen paper and allow to cool.Now start the sauce. Sweat the garlic and thyme in the butter with a pinch of salt for 2 minutes over a medium-low heat. Add the onion and cook for 5-10 minutes or until the onion is very soft, then add the white wine and reduce until it has boiled away. Add the milk and cream and bring to the boil, remove the thyme, then add the mackerel and purée in a blender until silky-smooth (see here). Season well with pepper.Season the hake pieces with salt, brush the skin side with egg white and pat the oat mixture generously on top to form a crust. Bake for 6-10 minutes, depending on thickness, then use the metal skewer test to check it is cooked (see here).Meanwhile, return your sauce to the boil and wilt your spinach in a separate pan with a knob of butter and a pinch of salt. Shake your vinaigrette to re-emulsify, then spoon on to the oat crust once the hake is fully cooked and ready to serve.Pour the sauce into warmed bowls and rest the fish on top, nuzzling the wilted spinach on the side.























ROASTED COD WITH WHITE WINE & MUSSEL SAUCEWho doesn't love a nice piece of crispy fried fish? I have a great tip for you to help you create a crispy coating: cornflour. If you are nervous of frying fish, cornflour will help you out. It removes excess moisture from the skin that can otherwise make fish stick to your frying pan. Or, to play it even safer, just season the cod with salt and bake it in an oven preheated to 180°C fan for 8-10 minutes.SERVES 2FOR THE SAUCE200g mussels15g unsalted butter1 garlic clove, crushed1 small onion, finely chopped or grated1 thyme sprig75g dry white wine75g fish or vegetable stock100g double creamsea salt and freshly ground black pepperFOR THE COD2 × 100g portions of cod, skin on or off, as you prefer50g cornflour (or see recipe introduction)3 tablespoons vegetable oil2 tablespoons House vinaigrette, or Airing-cupboard vinaigrette (see here and here)Start with the sauce. If any mussels are open, tap them to see if they close. You are checking to see if they are alive, as they will only close if they are. Discard the shells that stay open.To prepare the mussels, pull off the 'beards', which are the hairy strands emerging from the shell and are actually bits of the rope the mussels were grown on. With a small knife, scrape off any barnacles. If any mussels are cracked, discard them. Rinse briefly to remove any debris from the shells.Melt your butter in a pan over a low heat. Add the garlic, onion and thyme and cook for 5 minutes. You want to make sure the onion is fully cooked before moving to the next stage: you should be able to squash the pieces between your finger and thumb.Add your white wine and boil until it's almost completely gone. Pour in the stock and bring to the boil. Now add your mussels. I like to watch them pop open, so use a wooden spoon to stir and spoon them out as they open, to avoid overcooking. This should take around 5 minutes. Discard any shells that do not open after 5-8 minutes.Pour the entire contents of the pan through a sieve and shake out all the juices. Return it to the pot and add the cream, then bring to the boil and taste, adjusting the seasoning if needed (see below right). Store your mussels in an oven dish to pop back into the oven to warm through before serving.Sprinkle the pieces of cod on all sides with salt and set aside for 3-4 minutes; I recommend this with any fish, as it will let the flesh soak in the seasoning and firm up, too. Spread the cornflour on a large plate. Dip the pieces of cod in the cornflour, either skin side down if it has skin, or on the side where it had skin, if it is skinless.Preheat the oven to 180°C fan.Heat up a frying pan, big enough for the portions of fish, over a medium-high heat. Add the vegetable oil. Place the fish in the pan, cornflour side down. Wait until you see golden brown colour on the side of the fish in contact with the pan, and the fish flesh changing colour up the sides of the pieces from translucent to white. When it is white halfway up the sides (about 3 minutes), flip it over and cook for another 2 minutes, then take the pan off the heat for the fish to rest.While the fish is resting, bring your sauce back to the boil and put your dish of mussels in the oven just to warm through.Shake up the vinaigrette to re-emulsify, then drizzle it on top of your fish.Serve the fish, mussels and sauce with shredded and blanched cabbage and creamy mash, or even a crisp salad.Tricks of the TradeI cannot stress this enough: taste what you are making at every stage and adjust its seasoning before you continue to cook. This layering really results in much more flavoursome food.























MARINATED MONKFISH, BUTTERNUT SQUASH & PUMPKIN SEEDSOnce monkfish is mentioned, you know you're in for a special meal, because it's a luxury, meaty fish. If you can't get your hands on monkfish, this recipe will also work extremely well with cod.SERVES 2FOR THE FISH AND MARINADE1-2 tablespoons thick Greek-style yogurt½ teaspoon smoked paprika½ teaspoon hot paprika½ teaspoon honey½ teaspoon sea saltsqueeze of lime juice (about ¼ lime)2 × 150g monkfish portions, skin and membrane removed by the fishmongerFOR THE PUMPKIN SEEDS AND RICE4 tablespoons pumpkin seeds1 tablespoon vegetable oil75g brown rice20g salted butterFOR THE SQUASH1 butternut squash, deseeded and trimmed50g salted butterleaves from a bunch of basil, larger leaves rippedPreheat the oven to 180°C fan.Mix the yogurt, smoked paprika, hot paprika, honey, salt and lime juice in a bowl, add your monkfish, turn to coat and place in the fridge until you are ready to cook.Mix the pumpkin seeds and oil on a small baking tray with a sprinkle of salt. Cook in the oven for 4 minutes.Bring the brown rice to the boil in a saucepan of salted water and simmer for 18 minutes, or according to the packet instructions. Drain, then add the butter and season to taste with salt. This can be served at room temperature, or warmed up in the oven or microwave, before serving.Peel and chop the butternut squash. Place on a baking tray and cook for 30 minutes, or until you can squash it with a fork. Crush the butternut squash with a fork or a masher, adding your butter, ½ teaspoon of salt and the larger ripped basil leaves at the end.Line a baking tray with baking parchment and lay your marinated monkfish on top. Bake in the oven for 7 minutes.Spoon your butternut squash on to plates, make a well in the centre and fill with the brown rice.Place your monkfish on top and scatter with the toasted pumpkin seeds and the smaller basil leaves. A very elegant presentation with minimum effort.Tricks of the TradeYou could also grill the monkfish for 3-4 minutes on each side, if you prefer: I actually quite like it when the top of the marinade has been slightly charred by the heat of the grill.















HERB CRUSTED TUNA LOIN WITH CAPER & ANCHOVY DRESSINGThis dish was inspired by my time living in Paris, working for Gualtiero Marchesi at Hotel Lotti. I was the pastry chef and would come in on my days off to learn anything I could from the other sections in the kitchen. It was here that I first tasted vitello tonnato - poached veal with a tuna, caper and anchovy sauce - which remains to this day my desert island dish. In this recipe, I remove the tuna from the sauce and serve the anchovy-caper dressing with a rare tuna steak instead of the meat. It can be eaten hot or cold, but I prefer it cold. The quality of the anchovies is key here, and you need both fresh silver-coloured marinated anchovies and those canned in oil.You'll have more dressing than you need, but my god you'll use it. I could eat it like a yogurt. It's also wonderful on crusty bread.SERVES 2FOR THE DRESSING100g fresh marinated anchovies100g salted anchovies in oil, ideally Ortiz brand20g capersfinely grated zest of 1 lemon¼ garlic clove, grated100g vegetable oil, plus a little more for the tuna50g (about 3½ tablespoons) extra virgin olive oilFOR THE TUNA2 tuna loin steaks20g (4 teaspoons) Dijon mustardleaves from a bunch of flat leaf parsley, choppedleaves from ½ bunch of tarragon, choppedsea salt and freshly ground black pepperTO SERVEbunch of round radishes, sliced, left whole, or both1 fennel bulb, shaved on a mandoline or grated on a graterFor the dressing, place both types of anchovies, the capers, lemon zest and garlic in a food processor and pulse-blend, while slowly adding both types of oil, until you have an emulsified sauce.Heat a griddle pan over a very high heat.Season the tuna steaks, rub them with oil and sear in the very hot pan on all sides, for only 3 seconds on each side. Remove to a plate. Rub the tuna with the mustard and cover with most of the chopped herbs and some salt and pepper.Mix the radishes and fennel with the remaining herbs.Halve the tuna steaks so you can see the lovely pink centres, then serve them on the sauce with the radishes and fennel, which you can treat as a salad (or use for dipping, if you have left any radishes whole. Thank me later).















FISH GOUJONS WITH MUSHY GARDEN PEAS & SPICY SWEET POTATO CHIPSNow this was a special of Henry, my stepson, which has the same batter-and-panko coating as the chicken version (see here). I recommend making more than you need and freezing these; that way, when you don't feel like cooking, you can just grab them from the freezer and grill or fry them for five minutes on each side.SERVES 2-3FOR THE FISH2 × 150g portions of skinless cod fillet5 tablespoons plain flour, plus more to dust4 tablespoons Worcestershire sauce100g water200g panko crumbssea saltFOR THE CHIPS3 sweet potatoes (about 200g each)3 tablespoons sunflower oil, plus more for the fish½ teaspoon chilli flakes1 teaspoon cumin seedsFOR THE PEAS50g salted butter1 garlic clove, halved300g frozen peasTO SERVE (OPTIONAL)handful of mint leaves, ripped lemon wedgesPreheat the oven to 190°C fan.Cut the cod into 0.5-1cm-thick strips, as long or as short as you like, then season on both sides with salt. Dust the strips with flour.In a shallow dish, whisk together the Worcestershire sauce, measured water and the 5 tablespoons of flour until you have a smooth batter. Tip the panko crumbs into another shallow dish.Dip your floured cod pieces in the Worcestershire sauce batter, let it drip a little, then dip into the crumbs. Make sure your fish pieces are completely covered in crumbs.Lay the cod on an oven tray to cook later.Peel your sweet potatoes and cut into 1cm-thick chips, then place in a bowl and sprinkle with the oil, spices and 3 pinches of salt. Mix, then place on a baking sheet lined with baking parchment.Cook the chips for 20-30 minutes: you want them brown on the outside and soft on the inside.After the chips have been cooking for about 15 minutes, drizzle a little oil over your fish goujons before placing them in the oven. Cook for 10-15 minutes or until golden brown on each side.Meanwhile, make the peas. Put the butter and garlic in a small pan. When the garlic is about to turn brown, add the peas and a pinch of salt, give it a stir, then tip into a food processor and pulse-blend until the peas are crushed. You don't want a purée here, so watch the blending process carefully (see here).Serve a generous dollop of mushy peas on the plates, place the fish goujons on top and serve the chips on the side.You can elevate the flavour with some ripped mint leaves and a lemon wedge, if you like.























MeatWhat's the most popular meat eaten in your home? I could take a guess at chicken breast, or maybe minced beef. Growing up, we didn't eat a lot of chicken breast, but my god we had a fair few 'mince dinners'. Of course, I've a few chicken breast and minced beef recipes in here, but we have lots of other wonderful ingredients to choose from that don't have to break the bank and can really liven up the food you cook. For instance, when I think of the bad rep black pudding gets, it breaks my heart. We are all trying to be more mindful of the environment and sustainability and avoid waste, yet one ingredient that is wasted in abundance is blood. There is nutritional benefit to black pudding and it can transform a simple pasta dish or casserole, to give far more flavour.I cook a lot at home, in fact almost every single day, for us and our two-year-old son, Oisín. My main focus is introducing the little guy to foods I know are good for him and that he might find tasty... but, of course, I also get to enjoy them with him. We rarely eat takeaways, not out of food purism but because I've always got so much food in the house that I feel guilty not using it up.Sometimes I like to spend hours in the kitchen, chopping, stirring, nurturing something delicious on to the plates, whereas on other evenings I want to throw something tasty together quickly without any effort. The meat recipes in this chapter are a mixture of both: all for different moods and different days, but each one deeply satisfying and very doable.







HENRY'S CHICKEN GOUJONSHenry is my stepson and this is the first thing I cooked for him when he was only a little boy. When I first met him, he already loved chicken goujons, so I started to work on a recipe that we could make together. I didn't realise it would be the first recipe I would create for my own family, but now I know that I'll be making it for the rest of my life. Perhaps for grandkids one day. So it means a lot to me.Henry and I have a secret ingredient that we found made a big difference: Worcestershire sauce. Henry is all grown up now, but every time he comes to stay, I have a batch of his goujons ready.When our son Oisín was born, Henry brought him a little baby lion soft toy - Lenny - and that's who you can see in this photograph.SERVES 42 skinless chicken breasts5 tablespoons plain flour, plus more to dust4 tablespoons Worcestershire sauce100g water150g panko crumbsvegetable oilsea saltFOR THE DIPPING SAUCE6 tablespoons mayonnaise1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauceCut the chicken breasts into 1cm-thick strips, as long or as short as you like, then season them on both sides with salt. Dust the strips with flour.In a shallow dish, whisk together the Worcestershire sauce, measured water and the 5 tablespoons of flour until you have a smooth batter. Tip the panko crumbs into another shallow dish.Dip your floured chicken pieces in the Worcestershire sauce batter, let it drip a little, then dip the chicken into your crumbs. Make sure the pieces are completely covered in crumbs.Heat up a frying pan with just enough oil to cover the base. Place in the goujons and cook until golden brown all over, which should take about 3 minutes on each side.(You can also bake these if you prefer, in an oven preheated to 190°C fan. Lay the chicken on an oven tray and drizzle a little oil over the top. Cook until golden brown, about 10 minutes.)Meanwhile, mix the mayo with the Worcestershire sauce in a small bowl.Serve the chicken goujons with your Worcestershire mayonnaise. Some crispy potato wedges on the side are always good here.















TUESDAY NIGHT QUICK STIR-FRYI've always been interested in every type of food and eat anything put in front of me, including blood clams (I must admit I wouldn't recommend those), though in fact I have only started to cook Asian dishes at home in the last five or ten years. This recipe is off-the-charts delicious, quick and easy. I love if I have any left over, because I think it's flippin' delicious eaten cold from the fridge when I get home after a long day and night at the restaurant.This dish can be adjusted to include whatever vegetables you have in your kitchen. I chose to base the version here on carrots and kale, because that's what I always - and I mean
always
- have in mine. But cauliflower or broccoli would work very well instead of carrots, or any cabbage instead of kale. The seeds give great texture but also good nutrition to the meal, especially if you wanted to go meatless. The texture from the seeds and the aroma from the sesame oil at the end make such an impact.SERVES 2150g minute steak½ teaspoon bicarbonate of soda3 tablespoons vegetable oil2 garlic cloves, finely sliced1 thumb-sized piece of root ginger, finely slicedpinch of chilli flakes2 spring onions, white and green parts separated and finely sliced2 carrots, cut into strips, or into ribbons with a veg peeler1 tablespoon honey2 tablespoons soy sauce½ teaspoon black sesame seeds, or white sesame seeds if you can't find blackbig handful of kale, coarse ribs removed, leaves shredded1 tablespoon toasted sesame oil1 tablespoon white sesame seedsTake your minute steak and sprinkle it with the bicarbonate of soda evenly on each side. Set aside for up to 10 minutes. This will make it super-tender and melty. Rinse the steak briefly to remove the bicarb and slice it finely.Pour the oil into a saucepan or wok, then add the garlic and ginger and cook, stirring, until the garlic is almost turning brown. Throw in the chilli flakes and spring onion whites, then add the sliced beef and stir.Now tip in the carrots and stir for 1 minute.Add the honey, soy sauce, black sesame seeds and kale. Stir and cook for 2 minutes, just to start cooking the kale down.Finish with the sesame oil, white sesame seeds and spring onion greens, then serve.















ANNA'S WEDNESDAY NIGHT CURRYOne of the main reasons I decided to write this book is that I didn't realise until recently that so many people still cooked recipes I had given them years ago. Now, this recipe I have shared with more people than you could shake a stick at. I have taught it to best friends, sisters and brothers; they all have added their spin and make it time and again. It's a really wonderful dish. Now it's yours.A long time ago I did a
stage
(that's a period of time you work for free in a professional kitchen) at the Cinnamon Club in London. I was in awe of the flavours and ingredients I saw there. Indian cooking is very different to the Modern European style of food I'd been trained in, but there are many processes that cross over. I feel that learning even just a little bit about Indian food and cooking styles has made me understand flavour more. I memorised a handful of recipes and I wrote every single thing I saw down in my notebook. At the Cinnamon Club, they had a tomato-based recipe called 'old Delhi' curry. This version has slightly altered over time, but the core values I learned from chef Vivek Singh still ring true.The wonderful thing about homemade curries - apart from the fact that they are delicious and also a great way to use up what you have in your fridge - is that the list of ingredients is merely a guide. The marinating of the chicken here is optional, so skip it if you do not have the time, but you do get the benefit of an extra layer of flavour.This freezes so well that making a bigger batch is a great idea, to keep for a day when you don't feel like cooking.SERVES 2FOR THE CHICKEN AND MARINADE250g skinless boneless chicken thighs or breasts, cut into bite-sized cubes½ garlic clove, crushed1 teaspoon finely grated root ginger1 teaspoon sweet paprika½ teaspoon hot paprika, or to taste3 tablespoons thick Greek-style yogurt, plus more (optional) to servejuice of ¼ lemonsea saltFOR THE CURRY3 tablespoons vegetable oil3 garlic cloves, crushed5cm thumb of root ginger, finely grated2 green cardamom pods, crushed1 tablespoon cumin seeds1 teaspoon hot chilli powder, or to taste1 tablespoon sweet paprika2 onions, finely chopped400g can of chopped tomatoes, or 8 fresh tomatoes, chopped2 tablespoons tomato purée1 red pepper, cut into bite-sized cubes100g butternut squash, cut into bite-sized cubes400g can of coconut milk1-2 tablespoons sugar, to tastejuice of 1-2 limes, to tastecoriander leaves, to serveMix the chicken and all the marinade ingredients well together in a bowl with a pinch of sea salt, then cover and leave to marinate for 10-20 minutes.Put the oil in a large casserole pot over a medium heat. Add your garlic and ginger and cook for 2 minutes, then stir in the spices until they are aromatic. Then tip in your chopped onions. Cook until the onions are sweet. Don't skip this step: the onions being cooked until their sugars are properly released make a huge difference to the final curry.When the onions are ready, add your tomatoes and tomato purée and cook for 20 minutes.Now add your red pepper and butternut squash and cook for 10 minutes, or until the squash pieces are tender.Finally, add your chicken and its marinade and cook for 10 minutes.Pour in the coconut milk and taste: this is where you can create magic. When you taste your curry, ask yourself: is it hot enough? If not, add some extra chilli powder gradually. (If it's too spicy, see below.) And salt! Don't forget to taste in case you need a little extra salt. And as for sweetness and acidity balance, use your judgement about how much sugar and lime juice to add, to round out the flavours.Rip over the coriander leaves and ripple with more yogurt, if you like, both for a bit of visual drama and for that cool contrast to the spicy curry.Serve with plain boiled rice and/or naan or other flatbread (see here for homemade), as your curry will be bursting with flavour and the contrast of the plain rice or naan will complement and give relief, so each bite is even more delicious.Tricks of the TradeCurry too spicy? Well, just add some sugar and maybe a dash of cream, or coconut cream, if you have it, then taste and adjust again until you're happy with the flavour.















CRISPY CHICKEN THIGHS WITH SPINACH PURÉE, GOAT'S CHEESE & QUICK PICKLED RED ONIONI created this recipe for the first ever photo shoot we did for my restaurant, Myrtle, back in 2019. I was very delighted with the dish, and excited to be shooting. The place where I was living at the time had a floor which made an excellent backdrop for photography, so we were shooting this plate of chicken on the floor.I put the plate down and, just as I turned around, my little dog - who was only a puppy at the time - scooped a crispy thigh into her mouth and bolted through the back door. She left me standing in the kitchen, staring at the chicken hanging out of her mouth and watching her chow down.I can't blame her. Who doesn't love a crispy thigh?SERVES 22 tablespoons vegetable oil4 skin-on boneless chicken thighs½ garlic clove, very finely sliced25g salted butter200g spinach, plus more small spinach leaves to servepinch of sugar80g goat's cheesesea salt and freshly ground black pepperFOR THE QUICK PICKLED ONION50g (about 3½ tablespoons) water100g white wine vinegar50g caster sugar1 red onion, finely slicedSet a frying pan over a medium heat and pour in the oil.Season the chicken thighs with salt and pepper, place in the pan skin side down and cook until the skin becomes crispy; this will take around 10 minutes.For the quick pickled onion, pour the measured water and vinegar into a saucepan with the sugar and a pinch of salt, then place over a high heat and bring to the boil. Place the finely sliced onion in a heatproof bowl, then pour over the brine. It will be ready to eat in 5 minutes. (If your onion is more thickly sliced, boil it along with the brine for a second or 2 first.)Meanwhile, put the garlic in a medium pot with the butter and a pinch of salt and cook for 2 minutes. Add your spinach and sugar and stir while the spinach wilts down. Pop into a blender and blitz to a purée (see here).Your chicken should almost be done. Check it's crispy and, if it is, flip the thighs on to their other sides while you get your plates and cutlery ready. After a minute or 2, you're ready to serve.Serve the spinach purée on plates or in bowls and add the goat's cheese, broken into chunks. Place your chicken thighs on top and serve with the quick pickled onions and a scattering of extra spinach leaves.















CHICKEN FRICASSEE WITH PESTO & SEMI-DRIED TOMATOESThe name here might sound fancy, but my goodness is it a simple dish. There are layers upon layers of flavour, but it's easily put together while relaxing to a favourite podcast.This needs only plain boiled baby potatoes added to make it into more of a meal, as the sauce is so delicious with the acidity of the tomatoes. There is already loads of flavour going on, so it's nice to have an element on the plate that isn't fighting for attention! If you don't want to use semi-dried tomatoes, Kalamata olives are a great alternative.SERVES 2FOR THE PESTO1 tablespoon pine nutsbunch of basil1 garlic clove, crushed or finely grated1 lemon40g (about 2½ tablespoons) extra virgin olive oil20g (4 teaspoons) vegetable oil40g finely grated Parmesan cheese, or vintage Cheddarsea saltFOR THE CHICKEN2 tablespoons vegetable oil300g skin-on boneless chicken thighs1 garlic clove, finely sliced1 shallot, finely sliced100g white wine100g chicken stock40g salted butter50g semi-dried tomatoes (the bright red ones)Put the pine nuts, basil and garlic in a food processor. Zest in the lemon and pulse-blend to keep some texture (see here), adding both types of oil slowly along with a pinch of salt, then finally stir in the Parmesan or Cheddar. Taste and add a squeeze of lemon juice.For the chicken, heat a sauté pan over a medium-high heat and add the oil and a sprinkle of salt. Add the chicken, skin side down, and cook until caramelised. Add the garlic and shallot and stir until softened, then pour in the wine and boil until it has nearly disappeared. Pour in the stock and bring to the boil, then stir in the butter and semi-dried tomatoes. Taste to see if it needs more salt.Serve the fricassee with the pesto.















CHICKEN & BABY GEM TACO NIGHTListen: in cookbooks, you'll often read about how this or that recipe is a favourite of the author, but this dish is genuinely something that I cook at least three times a month. I love it because it's healthy, satisfying, looks gorgeous and is fun to eat. My fella always has this with flour tortillas; I sometimes do too, but there are always Baby Gem leaves on the table. I prefer them to the tortillas as wrappers.If you are eating less meat, the same recipe works well with aubergines cut into fingers and treated in the same way as the chicken here.SERVES 2FOR THE SALSA ROJO¼ onion, finely choppedjuice of 1 lime1 jalapeño or other chilli, finely chopped1 garlic clove, finely chopped3 tomatoes, chopped¼ bunch of coriander, finely choppedsea saltFOR THE GUACAMOLE1 avocado½ chilli, finely choppedjuice of ½ lime½ shallot, finely choppedFOR THE CHICKEN4 large skinless boneless chicken thighs1 teaspoon ground cumin¼ teaspoon hot paprika1 red chilli, finely sliced½ teaspoon sea salt½ teaspoon sugar3 tablespoons vegetable oil1 garlic clove, halved1 red onion, finely sliced1 red pepper, cut into strips1 green pepper, cut into stripsTO SERVE100g grated Cheddar cheesetortilla chips6 tablespoons crème fraîche, or thick Greek-style yogurt2 heads of Baby Gem lettuce, leaves carefully separated and washedI follow a traditional way of making a Mexican salsa. There is a little bit of magic that happens when you take the chopped onion and add the lime juice, put it in a bowl, then stir in the chilli, the salt and garlic. The salt must go in after the chilli; I don't understand why, but that's where the magic seems to come from! Really try to leave this for 5 minutes, if you can, before adding the tomatoes and then the chopped coriander. It may seem trivial, but it makes a huge difference, just try it and see. The juices that come out from this salsa are so delicious, I want to drink them down on their own with a shot of tequila! Cover the salsa and set aside until you're ready to eat.Peel the avocado, discard the stone and mash the flesh roughly in a bowl, then add all the other guacamole ingredients with a pinch of salt. You want to keep some texture here, so don't be too thorough about mashing and mixing it.Chop the chicken into strips about 1cm in width and place them in a bowl. Separately mix the ground spices, chilli, salt and sugar briefly, until evenly combined, then stir these through the chicken. Set aside to marinate for 10 minutes.Pour the oil into a pan and cook the chicken until golden brown on one side, then add the garlic and then the onion, cooking for a few minutes before following with both the peppers. You just want to get a nice golden colour on your vegetables and for the onion to be sweet, to balance out the spice of the dish, though a little bit of a bite remaining in all the veg is also very welcome.Meanwhile, get your table ready. A big part of taco night for me is how great the table looks: colourful, appetising and welcoming. And plenty of it all. I like to put everything down the centre, to make it super-easy for every diner to serve themselves. So get your grated cheese in a bowl, tortilla chips in a serving dish, and your salsa, guacamole and crème fraîche or yogurt in their own separate little bowls. Have the Baby Gem leaves on a plate and count on everyone needing 4-5 of those as wrappers.When the chicken mixture is cooked, take it to the table hot and sizzling and build the tacos in the lettuce leaves.















ROSEMARY PORK CHOPS WITH RED ONION & BALSAMIC MARMALADEI want to take you back in time to 1999. This was the year that - having seen that I was becoming a keen apprentice cook - my mother bought me my first ever cookbook:
The Naked Chef. As far back as I can remember, it was my favourite gift I ever got; it really had an effect on me. I had never before combined ingredients in the way that Jamie Oliver suggested and I cooked so many recipes from that book. The first I tried was his marinated pork chops, so this recipe is inspired by that. The dish also works with pork medallions.SERVES 44 thick-cut pork chops on the bone (or see recipe introduction)1 tablespoon extra virgin olive oil1½ teaspoons finely chopped rosemary leaves, plus 2-3 longer rosemary sprigs1 garlic clove, finely choppedsea salt and freshly ground black pepperFOR THE POTATO SALAD800g baby potatoes, halved3 tablespoons mayonnaisefinely grated zest and juice of 1 lemonchopped chivesFOR THE MARMALADE2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil1 medium red onion, sliced2 teaspoons balsamic vinegar1 tablespoon soft light brown sugarPreheat the oven to 200°C fan. Put the chops in a bowl with the oil, 1 teaspoon of the rosemary, the garlic, salt and pepper and toss well. Leave to marinate for 10 minutes: you'll be surprised how this time can transform your chop from nice to remarkable.Make the potato salad. Steam the potatoes until a knife slides right through, then leave to cool. Mix in the mayonnaise, lemon zest and juice and the chives and season to taste.I like to cook a chop on a griddle pan for a good smoky flavour, but you can use a frying pan. Place your chosen pan over a low heat and add the chops fat side down (see below). Increase the heat to high and sear the chops, turning, to get great colour on each side. Place the long rosemary sprigs in a baking tray and put the pork on top. Roast for 6-10 minutes, depending on thickness, until cooked through. Leave to rest for 5 minutes.Meanwhile, make the balsamic marmalade. Heat the olive oil in a medium saucepan. Fry the onion over a low heat for 5-6 minutes, or until well softened, stirring occasionally. Add the vinegar and sugar and bring to a simmer. Cook for a further 2 minutes, stirring.Spoon the potato salad on to 4 plates. Place in the chops, spoon the marmalade on top and scatter with the remaining rosemary.Tricks of the TradeIn order to cook pork chops fat sides down, on their narrow edges, I recommend doing it one by one, so you can keep them held on their side with tongs and adjust the angles to make sure you brown all the fat. It will take longer, but the results are worth it, and doing more than one at a time can be tricky.















CODDLEWhen I was a little girl, this was my favourite dinner and my mum made enough of it to serve the six of us. Despite that, I have been quite nervous about including this recipe in the book, because it's not something you see every day. It's boiled sausage and potato stew. But, if you think about the concept of some white continental stews in the traditional European canon, such as veal blanquette, coddle is not a million miles away. So I tried making it again from my mother's recipe... and I still think it's my favourite dinner!I also love that it's simple, and that I'm including a dish from my childhood here, alongside the cauliflower purées, white chocolate creams and so on.You know how people argue about certain cherished dishes from their countries? A Frenchman might argue with another about the correct ingredients for cassoulet, for instance, while voices have been raised about the right ingredients to include in - and exclude from - a bolognese ragù. Well, there are three types of coddle in Ireland: brown coddle, red coddle (sacrilege!) and - as far as I am concerned -
real
coddle, which happens to be white. I'm not going to be politically correct about this: the others are wrong. And if anyone has a problem with that, they can talk to my mam.SERVES 4 GENEROUSLY20g salted butter4 smoked bacon rashers, snipped with scissors into strips, or 40g smoked lardons1 garlic clove, sliced1 onion, sliced2 carrots, choppedabout 800g potatoes, peeled and quartered2 thyme sprigs8 sausages, skinned and halved300g whole milk, plus more if needed40g double cream (optional)1 teaspoon sea salt150g frozen peasleaves from ½ bunch of parsley, choppedHeat up a casserole pot and add your butter. Sweat off (cook without colouring) your bacon and garlic for 2 minutes, then add the onion and cook for a further 5 minutes.Now add the carrots, potatoes and thyme and cover halfway with water (about 300g, depending on the size of your dish). Cover with a lid (this helps cook the potatoes that are not covered in water) and cook on a simmer for 20 minutes. You should be able to slide a knife easily into a potato once it's ready.Add your sausages and simmer for 5 minutes, then pour in the milk and cream, if using, add the salt and taste for seasoning. If your potatoes are very fluffy, they will be really absorbent and you may need more milk.When you are happy with the flavour, add your peas and parsley and serve, with crusty bread, if you like.















MAMMY'S SHEPHERD'S PIE WITH FORKED SPUDSAlthough my mother is a naturally gifted cook, she didn't always love making dinner every day: being on a tight budget with four grizzly children whingeing all the time must have been hard work. But dinner was dinner and what was made was all there was available. 'Oh, you don't like onion? Tough, it's in there.' She was dead right and I hope I can stick to my guns when Oisín gets older and starts trying to place orders with me at meal times.So, this pie is a family dinner that my mother made regularly and we all ate without complaining. I'm 100 per cent sure that she used whatever minced meat she had in the fridge, or could afford that week. It all tastes good.What makes this recipe much easier is that, instead of having to make smooth mash, you just boil baby potatoes in their skins and crush them with a fork. This slices the effort in half and gives great texture, too.SERVES 4800g baby potatoes100g salted butter100g milk, warmed4 tablespoons vegetable oil500g minced lamb, minced beef or even minced pork2 garlic cloves, crushed3 onions, grated or finely chopped2 carrots, grated or finely chopped1 glass of red wine300g chicken stock, or water3 thyme sprigs, plus a few more thyme leaves200g frozen peas1 tablespoon plain flour2 tablespoons watersea saltBoil the potatoes in salted water until you can slide a small knife easily through. Drain them, return them to the pot and add the butter and warmed milk. Using a fork, crush the potatoes with the skins still on, adding a little extra salt.Now brown the minced meat. This is the most important stage of the recipe and you should give yourself the time to do it right.Pour 1 tablespoon of the oil into a frying pan and set the pan over a medium-high heat. Add half the minced meat, stir and wait 3-5 minutes for the meat to become brown on the bottom before turning it over, breaking it up, then leaving it to colour on the other side. Then tip it into a sieve over a bowl and allow the fat to drain away.Add a splash of water to the pan to deglaze the delicious meat juices off the bottom, pour this into a bowl, then wipe the pan with a tea towel or kitchen paper and put it back over the heat.Repeat with another 1 tablespoon of oil and the second half of the minced meat. Although this process is going to take a longer time than doing it all in one go, the caramelised minced meat will have the best flavour you can get and it's only a little extra effort.Set a large casserole pot over a medium heat and add the remaining 2 tablespoons of vegetable oil. Add the garlic and cook for 2-5 minutes, then add the onions and cook for 5 minutes. Tip in the browned minced meat and its juices from the bowl, then add the carrots, red wine and stock or water, throw in the thyme and cook for as long as you can, up to 2 hours, if possible. Pop in the peas. Mix the flour in a small bowl with the measured water and stir into the sauce to thicken it. Turn off the heat.Meanwhile, preheat the oven to 200°C fan.Tip the meat mixture into an oven dish, about 25cm in diameter, or the equivalent.Carefully top the meat with the forked spuds. You want them to cover the meat as much as possible. It will help if the meat is chilled before you attempt this, if you have time.Sprinkle with the extra thyme and pop into the oven to get a little colour on top, about 25 minutes. Serve when piping hot all the way through (see below).The skewer test: piesFirst look at the outside of the pie: is it the colour you want? If your answer is yes, take its temperature.There are two ways to do this. The first is with a temperature probe: place it in the centre of the pie but try not to touch the cooking dish itself, as its temperature will give a reading hotter than that of the food. For meat and fish dishes, or reheated dishes, you are looking for a temperature of 68°C and above.If you do not have a probe, do not worry. Take a metal skewer, or thin pointed paring knife, and place it in the centre of your pie. Now this time you do want to touch the bottom of the dish. Place your thumb on the skewer where the top of the pie is, take the skewer out and quickly place it on the inside of your wrist for a quick second. If it is so hot you cannot leave it there, your dish is piping hot.















BRAISED OX CHEEKS WITH SWEET POTATO & BASIL CRUSHThough what were once cheap cuts of meat are now expensive, beef cheek - when it's cooked right - is pure pleasure. If you treat it correctly, it's worth more than any fillet steak, in my book.This dish is perfect for a birthday dinner, along with a good bottle of wine. Yes, it takes time, but it doesn't need your full attention. I recommend setting a timer and going for a nap, watching telly, enjoying a glass of that wine, or doing whatever else you fancy, while you wait for it to be ready.SERVES 4FOR THE BEEF2 ox cheeks (total weight 1kg), each cut in half3 tablespoons vegetable oil500g red wine800g chicken stock, or beef stock, with no added salt2 banana shallots, halved2 large carrots, left whole4 garlic cloves, halved2 tablespoons sugar2 thyme sprigs1 large bay leaf2 tablespoons cornflour (optional)3 tablespoons water (optional)sea salt and freshly ground black pepperFOR THE SWEET POTATO800g sweet potatoes100g salted butter1 garlic clove, halvedsplash of white wine vinegarhandful of basil leaves, rippedHeat up a frying pan. Sprinkle the ox cheeks with salt and pepper, then fry in the oil, turning, until all sides are golden brown. This should take 5 minutes on each side. Place in a casserole pot and pour in your wine and stock.Set over a medium heat and bring to the boil, skimming off any foam that rises to the top. Add the vegetables, sugar, thyme and bay, reduce the heat to a simmer, cover and cook for 3-4 hours.Meanwhile, preheat the oven to 180°C fan. Place the sweet potatoes on a baking sheet and bake for 1 hour, or until tender. When cool enough to handle, scoop the sweet potato flesh out of the skins. Melt the butter in a saucepan and add the garlic. When the garlic browns, lift it out and discard. Put the sweet potato flesh in the saucepan of garlicky butter with the vinegar and basil and crush with a fork. Add ½ teaspoon of salt and taste to check the seasoning.Once the meat is tender, it will feel soft - tender enough that you can easily put a fork through it - and should glisten. Lift the beef out, add an extra sprinkle of salt to it and cover with foil while you finish the sauce.Remove the vegetables from your cooking liquor and pass the liquor through a sieve. Put it back into the casserole pot and boil until you have sauce bursting with flavour, with a thick consistency. If you feel it isn't thick enough, mix the cornflour with the measured water in a small bowl until smooth and gradually add it, stirring all the time. (You might not need it all, so take care.) Taste the sauce and adjust the seasoning.Serve the sweet potato crush under the ox cheeks, with the sauce poured over the meat.























RUMP STEAKS WITH CHARRED SPROUTING BROCCOLI & BLACK GARLICIf you - like me - think beef fillet is overrated, then this recipe might be right up your alley. The black garlic purée takes the most effort, but it really is something. (Ideally, look for jet-black garlic cloves for this.)Slow-roasted regular garlic is a good alternative (see here), if you can't find black garlic.SERVES 2FOR THE STEAKS AND MARINADE2 garlic cloves, slicedleaves from 1 rosemary sprig, finely chopped2 tablespoons olive oil2 × 200g rump steaksFOR THE BLACK GARLIC PURÉE1 tablespoon vegetable oil1 garlic clove, sliced200g chestnut mushrooms, slicedcloves from ½ black garlic bulb200g chicken stock100g double creamFOR THE BROCCOLI6 purple-sprouting broccoli spears, or regular broccoli1 tablespoon extra virgin olive oilleaves from ½ bunch of tarragon, chopped, plus leaves from 2 sprigs (optional) to servePlace the garlic, rosemary and olive oil in a bowl, add the steaks, turning to coat, cover and marinate for at least 1 hour.To make the black garlic purée, heat the oil in a saucepan. Add the garlic and mushrooms and cook for 3-4 minutes. Add the black garlic and stock and bring to the boil. Once the mushrooms are cooked, add the cream and blend to a purée (see here).Remove the steaks from the marinade, season with salt and cook on a hot griddle pan for 2-3 minutes on each side, depending on size and thickness. Leave to rest in a dish while you prepare the rest of the recipe.Meanwhile, for the charred sprouting broccoli, heat a griddle pan. If the broccoli spears are tender, char straight away on the hot griddle pan, turning to char all sides. If they are quite tough, blanch them in boiling water first for 3 minutes, then char.Slice the steaks, adding any additional juices to the broccoli. Toss the charred broccoli with the steak juices, the olive oil and tarragon.Spoon the black garlic purée on to serving plates, add the steak slices and finish with the sprouting broccoli. Sprinkle with the extra tarragon, if you like, and serve.







ColoursThe eye is programmed to understand which colours look attractive together. When we see complementary colours together, we like them, but without consciously considering this while planning your plates, you might not know you know! Here is an easy colour spectrum: all the colours that are directly opposite each other are the most complementary.Take red and green, for instance. When you serve rare steak with bright green broccoli, they make each other look better because they contrast. Similarly, any lemon pudding looks good served with blueberries. It's also a wonderful serendipity that these ingredients not only look great when paired up, through their contrast of colours, but also taste amazing together.The skewer test: meatTake your meat out of the oven and put a skewer into the top middle of the protein, touching the base of the tray or plate it is resting on. Leave for 10 seconds, making sure you hold your thumb on the skewer at the top of where the protein is, then remove the skewer and place it on the inside of your wrist. This is something you must get a feel for and isn't as tricky as you think, once you do it a few times. I would recommend, the first time, check the heat of your meat every 2 minutes and feel the temperature rise on your wrist, resulting in you instinctively teaching yourself.    Cold = undercooked = below 51°C    Cool-warm = rare = 51-53°C    Warmer = medium-rare = 56-57°C    Hot = medium = 59-60°C    Too hot to leave there = medium-well = 68-70°C If you want super-well-done meat, but don't want it bone dry, opt for medium-well and then rest your meat, usually for half the amount of time it took to cook. Then finish it by popping it back into the oven for a further one-quarter of the cooking time. If in doubt, shave a little slice off and see if you like the colour. Remember: you are cooking food that you want to eat, so cook it as you feel is right.







BOEUF BOURGUIGNONWhen I was a kid, Mam always made a traditional Irish stew and I loved it. However, she and my father would argue over what version of Irish stew was correct; he always claimed that it should be made with beef, not lamb, and wanted to add pearl barley, or red lentils.When I grew up, I discovered the delight of adding red wine to a beef braise and how incredible and different that made it, rendering it unctuous and bursting with flavour. It reminded me of those overheard parental discussions about what should go in authentic Irish stew and, together, both dishes are the inspiration for this recipe.SERVES 4olive oil500g diced stewing beef40g salted butter, plus more to serve4 garlic cloves, chopped1 onion, finely chopped3 thyme sprigs100g thick smoked lardons, or smoked streaky bacon rashers, chopped1 cinnamon stick250g red wine600g beef stock3 carrots, chopped1 tablespoon cornflour (optional)3 tablespoons water (optional)1 teaspoon sugar (optional)3 spring onions, thinly sliced at an angle2 handfuls of kale leaves, coarse ribs removed, choppedsea salt and freshly ground black pepperHeat a generous splash of oil in a large frying pan over a medium-high heat. Season the beef, then, working in batches, colour it on all sides. Using a perforated spoon, remove each batch to a plate.Put the butter and garlic in a casserole pot and cook until very light brown, then add the onion and sweat (cook over a low heat without colour) for 5-10 minutes. Add the thyme and bacon and stir for 5 minutes, then throw in the cinnamon and beef. Pour in your wine and boil until the liquid reduces by half. Add the stock and bring to the boil, then reduce the heat, cover and simmer for 2 hours, stirring occasionally. It must be gently bubbling, as that is what shows the meat is tenderising. Add your carrots, cover and cook for 40 minutes, until the beef is meltingly tender.Taste: if your liquor is bursting with flavour but not thick, mix the cornflour and measured water in a small bowl until smooth and gradually add it, stirring all the time. (You might not need it all, so take care.) If the sauce is too mild, ladle some of the liquid out and reduce it by half, before returning it to the rest of the stew. If it still tastes bland, add a pinch of salt and the sugar.Finish with the spring onions, kale and a few cubes of butter. Cook just until the kale wilts, then serve with creamy mash.Tricks of the TradeGetting a lovely golden brown colour on the meat is key. Make sure you cook the garlic in fat before adding your onion and then herbs; this gives a great flavour even though it seems too easy to be true. Lastly, make sure you have a good balance of acidity (from wine), sweetness (from vegetables) and a depth of flavour both from how reduced your stock is and from herbs and spices.















CHILLI CON CARNEYears ago, when my sister Sarah got engaged, I was starting out as a chef, working in a restaurant called L'Ecrivain in Dublin. My sister put me in charge of making a chilli con carne for everyone at her engagement party. I had never made chilli con carne before, so I found a recipe in the newspaper, bought all the ingredients and followed the recipe to a 'T'. To my horror, it tasted of nothing. My blood ran cold. I was very young and big sister's approval was the be-all and end-all for me. (It still is: when either of my sisters compliment my cooking today, it still feels like an achievement!) I turned to the restaurant's very talented then-sous chef, Stephen Gibson, with all the fear and panic in my eyes. He tasted the chilli and said, 'Yeah, that's not going to cut it.' He then gave me a masterclass in the fixing of recipes: more chilli, more cumin and more paprika went in. More sugar, more salt, then vinegar was added. At the end of it, the chilli tasted out of this world. I got lots of praise and approval from my big sisters and their friends, but I gained so much more from that experience. I really learned that a recipe can only be a guideline: you must taste your food and think, at every stage, of what you can add to make a dish sing.This is a big recipe for a lot of food, that you can make to serve to the family, then portion up the rest in the freezer for a homemade ready meal at hand.The slow-roasted bulb of garlic is one of my favourite tricks and it really makes this dish shine.SERVES 81 garlic bulb, plus 1 garlic clove4 tablespoons olive oil500g minced pork500g minced beef1½ tablespoons sweet smoked paprika1 cinnamon stick2 tablespoons cumin seeds2 dried Mexican chillies, such as chipotle1 teaspoon dried oregano2 red onions, chopped2 carrots, chopped1 red chilli, finely choppedbunch of coriander, stems finely chopped, leaves separated4 tablespoons tomato purée3 × 400g cans of plum tomatoes400g can of kidney beans, drained2 teaspoons salt, or to taste2 teaspoons sugar, or to taste1 tablespoon red wine vinegar, or to tasteTO SERVEboiled ricesour creamlime wedgesPreheat the oven to 180°C fan.Place the garlic bulb on a piece of foil large enough to wrap it up, pour over 1 tablespoon of the oil and seal the foil around it in a parcel. Place on a baking tray and roast for 30 minutes.In a large saucepan, fry both types of minced meat - in small batches so as not to overcrowd the pan - over a high heat. Wait 3-5 minutes for the meat to become brown on the bottom before turning it over, breaking it up, then leaving it to colour on the other side. Then tip it into a sieve over a bowl and allow the fat to drain away.Heat the remaining olive oil in the original large saucepan and add the spices and oregano, frying for a minute or so until they are aromatic. (Some people will tell you to scorch, then soak, dried Mexican chillies. I've never bothered with any of that and my chilli always tastes great, so pop the chilli in whole, just as it comes.)Now chop the remaining garlic clove, add it to the spices and cook until you can smell that, too. Add the red onions and carrots and cook until the onions have softened and started to become sweet. Don't rush this, as properly cooked onions will elevate the final dish.Now stir in the chopped fresh chilli and the chopped coriander stems. Tip in the browned minced meat from its sieve, then the tomato purée and the canned tomatoes. Bring to the boil, then reduce the heat to a simmer and cook for 2 hours at a gentle bubble, stirring now and then, or until the meat has become very tender.Squeeze in the roasted garlic cloves, discarding the papery skins, then add the kidney beans.Taste the chilli and add the salt, sugar and vinegar, tasting once more and adding more salt, sweetness or acidity until you are happy with the balance of the dish.Scatter the ripped coriander leaves on top, or serve in a bowl alongside for people to help themselves. Boiled rice, a bowl of sour cream and another of lime wedges are essentials here.Tricks of the TradeThis recipe will work with whatever minced meat you want to use: lamb, pork or even chicken. However, if you are making it with minced chicken, cook for just one hour after you add the canned tomatoes.























Weekend ProjectsYes, cooking is my job, but I'm incredibly lucky that it's also my hobby, born out of passion and curiosity. For instance, I often make a recipe from a country whose food I'm not familiar with, purely because I want to know how it works and to see if I can do it. I also enjoy a recipe which is a bit of a labour of love, or fancier than a quick weeknight supper.There is evidence to show that, when we complete a mental challenge (such as following a recipe), we create a type of 'train track' in our brain, making it easier next time we perform similar challenges. So when you give a recipe a go - even if it might not turn out as expected - feel empowered that you are laying the tracks to becoming a great cook. We do not learn from what we do right, we learn from mistakes, so celebrate the trying and doing as much as the final product.It's people who enjoy the cooking, or the doing of any other kitchen task, that make the tastiest food. So in this chapter I've shared some more demanding recipes, which I hope will give you great pleasure. They are all worth the extra effort and will give you a real sense of achievement.One obvious project is the celebration roast. Most of us have at least one occasion a year when we have to cook a big meal, and it can be daunting, so I've offered a timetable for it. But scribble on that to make notes of what works for you, because, hopefully, you will go back time and again to make it as your family's festive meal.







GAZPACHO CONSOMMÉ WITH GAZPACHO SALSA CRACKERSWhen I started to cook for myself at home as an adult, even though I was a professional chef by then, it was as though I had to re-learn how to cook in a home kitchen! As a professional, you are drilled in skills and techniques and are so focused on those 'rules'. Cooking at home has taught me so much about adding real flavour by simple means. And I promise you, though the word 'consommé' might sound tricky, this is a recipe that you can easily nail.When you have hung the gazpacho to get a beautiful clear consommé, it is delicious and refreshing as a cold soup in the summer time. This is a dish that just screams hot weather. Ideally, avoid making it in the winter, as the tomatoes won't be as good and they will also be more expensive.Now, as you embark on this ludicrously simple and elegant recipe, it's very good to note that you can get more than one meal from the dish. It is THE (yes THE) most flavoursome stock for risotto or a sauce. And if that's not enough, the consommé makes a great base for a tomato martini. But the
real
surprise is all the pulp that is left inside the cloth... All the maceration gives it an astounding flavour. Plus, it's hugely satisfying that this is a double-bubble, no-waste dish. Yes, I think on balance this recipe is well worth a whirl!SERVES 4 AS A STARTERFOR THE CONSOMMÉ700g tomatoes on the vine100g tomato juice½ cucumber, peeled (peel discarded) and chopped1 garlic clove1 red pepper, chopped½ red onion, chopped50g (about 3½ tablespoons) extra virgin olive oil, plus more to serve20g (4 teaspoons) white wine vinegar, or to taste20g sugar, or to taste1 teaspoon sea salt, or to tastebunch of basil, leaves and stalks separated, stalks finely choppedFOR THE SALSA AND CRACKERS2 tablespoons cream cheese1 red chilli, finely chopped, plus a few slices to serve1 medium baguette2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oilfreshly cracked black peppera few tomato slicesPulse all the ingredients for the consommé except the basil leaves (but including their stalks) in a food processor.Take a sieve or conical strainer, line it with a piece of muslin or cheesecloth and place over a large bowl. Pour your consommé mix into the lined sieve or strainer.Take some string and use it to close up the cloth into a bag, tying it to secure. Attach the string to a middle of a wooden spoon. Balance the wooden spoon across 2 items of the same height, so the wrapped bundle hangs above the bowl. This will drain the maximum amount of liquid. Leave to drip for 1 hour, or as much as overnight, if you're super-organised. You can squeeze the bag if you want, though this will result in a more pinkish gazpacho rather than a clearer liquid, so do try to resist the temptation if you can!Carefully remove the bundle from the spoon handle and unwrap it. There is now treasure inside! Mix some of the pulp from the bag with the cream cheese and chilli to taste, then cover and set this salsa aside. Put it in the fridge if you are making this ahead of time. Reserve the remaining pulp for another dish (see below).Cover the consommé and place it in the fridge to chill.Now for the crackers. Preheat the oven to 150°C fan.Cut the baguette into thin slices and place them on an oven tray. Drizzle with the oil and cracked pepper and place in the oven to crisp up for 5 minutes. Leave to cool; they will crisp up further.Now taste the chilled consommé and adjust the seasonings. This is the time to tweak the levels of vinegar, sugar and salt until the balance is perfect for you, as chilling will have blunted the flavours and you will also be serving it chilled.Serve the chilled consommé in chilled bowls or glasses topped with a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil and a few basil leaves, with the crackers topped with the gazpacho salsa and tomato and chilli slices on the side.Tricks of the TradeThe extra vegetable mix left inside the cloth is perfectly balanced and makes a showstopping pasta sauce for the next day, especially if you add a dash of cream or tomato passata. Or whizz it up into a dip to have with crudités for lunch...























UNFORGETTABLE FOCACCIAI first made this recipe out of pure curiosity, as I'd seen versions around and thought I'd give it a whirl. I noticed that if you baked focaccia at a high temperature - which is the norm for bread - the decorations on top burn. So I cranked the oven to a relatively moderate 200°C fan with a very heavy metal tray inside, then put my focaccia on the tray to give it a shock and immediately reduced the oven temperature to 160°C fan: the high heat of the tray helps it to rise beautifully and gives you a lovely soft bread with a little crunch. When it comes to decoration, let your imagination run wild. Leftovers and raw veg trimmings all have a role to play ;)SERVES 87g dried fast-action yeast20g sugar550g warm water750g strong white bread flour15g sea salt40g (about 2½ tablespoons) extra virgin olive oil, plus more for drizzling and kneadingFOR DECORATION (OPTIONAL)long chives and other herb sprigscarrot shavings or peelingscherry tomatoesred and yellow peppers, slicedred onions, slicedThe night before you want to eat the bread, mix the yeast and sugar in a bowl with a few tablespoons of the measured warm water. Leave for 10-15 minutes, until it foams on the surface.Put the flour and salt in a large bowl, make a well in the centre, then pour in the yeast mix with the remaining measured warm water and mix with your hands until it forms a dough. Tip the dough out on to an oiled work surface. It should be a wet and sticky dough and difficult to handle, as this gives a soft, moist bread: the drier it is, the longer it takes to prove. Oil your hands, to stop the dough from sticking to your fingers, then knead it with a drop more of whatever oil you have.Line a tray with clingfilm and coat with oil to prevent the base of the dough from drying and creating a skin. Place the dough on top and rub with a little more oil, then cover with a damp tea towel and leave in the fridge to prove slowly overnight. This will give you a lovely sourdough tang. It should double in size.Line a baking dish measuring 30 × 20cm - and which has some depth to it - with baking parchment. Once your dough is proved, knock it back and put into the dish, pressing it out with your fingertips until it lies evenly in the tray. Cover with a damp tea towel once more and let it prove for another 10-20 minutes.Preheat the oven to 200°C fan and place a larger baking tray inside; you'll set your focaccia on top of it, to give a better bake. Use your chosen decorations to create a design on top of the dough. (Then remove any green stuff until after it has baked.)Place the bread on the large baking tray in the oven, reduce the oven temperature to 160°C fan and bake for 30 minutes. When it comes out, return the green bits to create your piece of art, then scatter with sea salt flakes and black pepper.















CARROT, PICKLED RAISIN & HAZELNUT SALAD WITH AIRING-CUPBOARD VINAIGRETTEMany many years ago, when I still lived in Dublin, I flew over to London for a weekend, especially to eat at a restaurant called Pied à Terre where Shane Osborn was the head chef. The meal was absolutely fantastic. My starter was a pressed duck leg and foie gras terrine with a delicate, perfectly picked frisée salad. When I ate the salad, I thought: 'I have to work here one day, to learn how to make something so simple but which leaves such an impression.' So that very humble dressing inspired me to get a job working with Shane Osborn.This is a salad that is intended to be served at room temperature or cold, which makes it relaxing to put together, to take your time and enjoy the process.You only need 50g of vinaigrette here, but this recipe makes more than that. It's great to keep in the fridge for adding to salads or veggies, as you need. (Make sure you shake up the jar of dressing before weighing it out, so each portion you use always has the right ratio of oil to vinegar.)Any extra pickled raisins will stay good for a week or two and are brilliant used as a secret weapon to throw into salads.SERVES 2FOR THE VINAIGRETTE1 shallot, thickly sliced1 garlic clove, halved50g (about 3½ tablespoons) olive oil100g vegetable oil75g white wine vinegar1 thyme sprig1 rosemary sprig1 tablespoon caster sugar1 teaspoon Dijon mustardsea saltFOR THE CARROT PURÉE200g carrots, peeled and grated50g salted butter1 star anisepinch of caster sugarFOR THE PICKLED RAISINS50g (about 3½ tablespoons) water50g (about 3½ tablespoons) white wine vinegar50g raisinsFOR THE CARROT STRIPS1 carrot, ideally purpleFOR THE TARRAGON MAYONNAISE1 tablespoon breadcrumbs2 tablespoons water1 tablespoon Dijon mustard1 tablespoon white wine vinegar½ garlic clove, crushedleaves from ½ bunch of tarragon, plus more to serve100g vegetable oilFOR THE CARROT SALAD3 large carrots, in different colours, if you want50g toasted hazelnuts, choppedTo make the vinaigrette, put your shallot and garlic in a bowl or jar and sprinkle with a pinch of salt. Add both types of oil and then the vinegar and herbs. Cover the bowl with clingfilm, or seal the jar, and leave somewhere warm, such as in an airing cupboard or above the oven, for a minimum of 30 minutes, but ideally 3 days. Yes, it sounds like a faff, but trust me this dressing will get better and better each day until day 5. Then you must pour it through a sieve, add the sugar and mustard and whisk to emulsify, seal it in a jar and keep it in the fridge.For the carrot purée, put the carrots in a pot, then pour in water to come halfway up to the level of the carrots (about 50g should do it). Add the butter and star anise, sugar and a pinch of salt, cover and set over a medium-high heat. Cook it for 5 minutes, then check to see if the carrot is soft. If it is, purée it (see right) with the buttery liquid, removing the star anise, or leaving the spice in there too if you're looking for a stronger flavour.Now for the raisins. Bring the measured water, vinegar and a pinch of salt to the boil in a saucepan. Add the raisins and cook for 1 minute over a low heat. Transfer to a small container and leave to soak.For the carrot strips, take a peeler and peel your carrot. Then continue to peel long strips of carrot and place in a bowl, sprinkling with a pinch of salt. The salt will not only flavour the strips, but will draw out the water and make them more pliable. Wrap the strips of carrot around your finger, to create tubes.To make the mayonnaise, soak the breadcrumbs in a tall hand blender jug in the measured water for 20 minutes. Add the mustard, vinegar and garlic and blend until smooth. Now add the tarragon and blitz on a high speed until you have a smooth green paste. On a medium-low speed, gradually add the vegetable oil. Season with salt.For the salad, slice the carrots at an angle about 5mm thick, then boil them in salted water until cooked but still with a bite to them. Check after 3 minutes, but they might take as much as 6. Drain them. If you are serving the salad straight away, refresh them under cold running water to cool them down. Dress them in 50g (about 3½ tablespoons) of the vinaigrette.Place the purée on plates, spoon the dressed carrot on top, then sprinkle with hazelnuts and pickled raisins (don't use their pickling liquid, though). Add the ribbons of raw carrot, splashes of the tarragon mayonnaise and a sprinkling of tarragon leaves, then serve.Tricks of the TradeUnlike blending (see here), puréeing is when you are looking for silky-smooth texture, such as here, to complement the rest of a dish. You need a jug blender, or sometimes a hand blender. You want to continuously blend the mix, checking it every 2-3 minutes to see how silky-smooth it is. If it is not smooth, there are three main reasons: there's not enough liquid; the vegetables were not fully cooked; or you don't have enough mix for the blender to connect with the food to purée it properly.































STUFFED & ROAST CHICKEN BREAST WITH POTATO ROSTIOnce you've made this recipe for the first time, you can create so many different varieties based on it. You can use minced chicken, any minced meat you have, or black pudding instead of sausagemeat. Then change it up with different herbs, or add nuts and seeds if you want.If you don't have bacon, wrap your stuffed chicken breast in foil and it will work a dream cooked in the same way. (Though remove the foil before cutting!)I recommend making an extra couple of rosti, as they are very moreish, even when cold.SERVES 2FOR THE STUFFED CHICKEN100g sausagemeat (or see recipe introduction)¼ teaspoon freshly ground black pepperleaves from ½ bunch of parsley, choppedleaves from 2-3 thyme sprigs2 skinless chicken breasts8 thinly sliced rashers of smoked baconFOR THE ROSTI2 potatoes, unpeeled, parboiled for 10 minutes2 tablespoons vegetable oil1 garlic clove, halvedsea saltTO SERVEsour creamwilted spinachPut the sausagemeat in a bowl and season with the pepper, then fold in the chopped parsley and the thyme leaves.Put the chicken breasts on a work surface and slice horizontally, lengthways, to create pockets. Fill with the sausage mix.Preheat the oven to 190°C fan.Lay 4 bacon rashers next to each other. Lay a chicken breast on one end of the bacon, then roll it up. Repeat to wrap and secure the second chicken breast in the remaining bacon. Wrap both in foil and place them, spaced well apart, on an oven tray.Pop in the oven for 10 minutes, then turn and cook for another 10 minutes. Remove from the oven and allow the chicken to rest, in the foil, for 5 minutes. Unwrap the chicken breasts: if they need some colour, give them a quick sear in a separate frying pan as you're cooking the rosti, then leave to rest for another few minutes.Meanwhile, make the rosti. Grate the parboiled potatoes on a box grater - no need to peel - and season them with salt.Heat a frying pan over a medium heat with the oil. Cover the pan with the rosti, flatten it out, then slowly let it turn crisp and golden brown. Flip it over and let the other side cook. This won't take long, as your potatoes are parcooked. When both sides are golden brown, throw in the halved garlic clove and cook for 3 minutes.Once your chicken has rested, slice and serve with wedges of your rosti, with a dollop of sour cream and some spinach, drizzling any chicken resting juices over the meat.







ROASTED JUNIPER-MARINATED DUCK & POTATO WAFFLEThe first time I cooked duck was when I was a commis chef studying Professional Cookery at Cathal Brugha Street in Dublin. My mother could see how passionate I was about cooking, so she would take me to the supermarket twice a month to choose some ingredients I wanted to learn to cook with. I remember researching juniper berries and we went to every single food shop in the Square in Tallaght - the local mammoth mall - searching for them. I think we eventually found them in a health food shop on the ground level and they weren't cheap. I was blown away by the smell (and was yet to really discover gin and tonic). As I write, I do understand that some ingredients are not easy to find these days and sometimes can be surprisingly expensive, too. What I will say is that every ingredient should be cherished and you should always try to get the most out of them.We all get stuck doing the same things with potatoes (mash or chips), and although both are yummy it's also nice to think outside the box and do something different, such as these waffles.SERVES 2FOR THE DUCK1 teaspoon juniper berries, crushedleaves from 1 rosemary sprig, chopped2 tablespoons vegetable oil2 duck breasts3 garlic cloves, halved1 large fennel bulb, choppedfreshly cracked black pepperFOR THE WAFFLES550g Maris Piper potatoes1 teaspoon sea salt25g cornflour2 small egg yolks¼ teaspoon garlic powder20g melted duck fat, or olive oilFOR THE MUSHROOM SAUCE2 garlic cloves, finely sliced1 tablespoon salted butter500g chestnut mushrooms, sliced6 black garlic cloves150g chicken stock50g double creamup to 100g whole milkFOR THE SALAD¼ Savoy cabbage, shredded½ fennel bulb, very finely slicedhandful of parsley leaves2 tablespoons capers, drained1 quantity House vinaigrette (see here)Mix your crushed juniper berries and rosemary with your oil and a sprinkling of pepper. Place your duck breasts skin side down on a plate and rub this marinade only on the red flesh. Cover and put in the fridge until you are ready to cook.Peel the Maris Pipers and bring to the boil. Once the potatoes are thoroughly cooked (you should easily be able to slide a knife in), drain them and push through a potato ricer to make a dry mash.Mix all the waffle ingredients together, including the duck fat or olive oil, then cook in a waffle machine for 4 minutes, or according to the manufacturer's instructions. Set aside. Now although this recipe asks for a waffle iron, don't worry if you don't have one, as you can also choose to shape the mix into squares and fry them over a medium heat in a frying pan with 3 tablespoons of vegetable oil instead.Now for the mushroom sauce. Sweat the finely sliced regular garlic cloves off in the butter in a saucepan. Add the sliced mushrooms and the black garlic and cook for 5 minutes. Pour in your stock, bring to the boil and simmer for 10 minutes. Now pour in the cream, return the pan to the boil, then puréeuntil silky smooth (see here), adding ½ teaspoon of salt. Now slowly add the milk until the sauce consistency is as you want it. You're looking for a lovely smooth pouring sauce, with a texture like a silky custard. Make sure your sauce isn't too thin and will work with how you want to present it on the plate.Once you are ready to cook your duck, preheat the oven to 170°C fan.Use a teaspoon to scrape the juniper and rosemary mix off the meat. Sprinkle salt on the skin and the flesh of your duck.Place the duck breasts fat side down in a cold pan, then set it over a medium-low heat. This will let the fat melt off, resulting in a crisper skin. It should take about 4 minutes for the skin to start to turn golden brown. Put the halved regular garlic cloves and the fennel in an oven tray and place the duck breasts on top, fat side up.Put the duck in the oven for 4-5 minutes (see here for advice on how to cook your meat to the temperature you want). Leave it to rest for 5 minutes.Meanwhile, make the salad: mix all the vegetables and capers in a bowl, then toss with the vinaigrette.Slice the duck thickly and serve, with the potato waffles and fennel salad on the side. Serve the sauce on the side, or pour it on to the plates.Tricks of the TradeThis is a recipe that you want to make on special occasions; it's not your average Monday night dinner. You can make most of it a day or so in advance, however, so the only thing you need to cook in the moment is the duck breast.























BLACK PUDDING PARCELS WITH BRAMLEY APPLE DIP & APPLE-BARLEY SALADWhen I say I love black pudding, people usually scrunch up their noses and ask, 'Sure, what can you use it for?' The answer is that any recipe which calls for chorizo could easily use black pudding instead. It's more nutritious and you save a bit of money, too. When I was a child and we were given a full Irish breakfast, the four of us siblings would negotiate and I would happily swap my rashers or an egg for black pudding. (And absolutely my mushrooms, I was always trying to offload those bad boys.) It was like the Stock Exchange at our house at breakfast time.We are in a country that has lots of wonderful ingredients and produce on our doorstep and certain of those - carrots, cabbage, the meat of ex-dairy beef and black pudding - we take for granted because we have them in abundance. Black pudding is a byproduct of eating beef or pork; most is pork-based, but I've used a Clonakilty beef pudding in my recipe, which is easy to find in many supermarkets.These parcels are really great to take on a picnic or to work, as a ready-to-go snack. They also make wonderful party food, as you can eat something substantial which fits easily in your hand, serving the apple dip on the side.MAKES 6FOR THE PARCELS350g Clonakilty (beef-based) black pudding, or pork-based black pudding200g minced chicken100g double cream6 sheets of samosa pastrymelted butter, or oil, to brush the pastrysea saltFOR THE APPLE DIP1 Bramley apple, peeled, cored and chopped1 tablespoon sugar2 heaped tablespoons cream cheesejuice of ½ lemon1 tablespoon chopped chivesFOR THE SALAD250g cooked pearl barley (150g raw weight, if cooking it yourself)3 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil2 tablespoons white wine vinegar1 teaspoon sugar1 Granny Smith apple2-3 tablespoons chopped pecan nutsTO SERVEhandful of flat leaf parsley leaves, ripped or finely chopped¼ head of radicchio, leaves roughly tornRemove the casing from the black pudding, crumble it into a bowl and add the chicken. Pour in the cream, adding a pinch of salt, then mix well until properly amalgamated. Your hands are the best tool for this and you can wear a food-safe plastic glove if you want.Brush a sheet of samosa pastry with melted butter or oil. Spoon 1 tablespoon of black pudding mixture in the top right corner of a strip. Brush again with butter or oil, then fold the black pudding-filled top right-hand corner of the strip over to form a triangle. Continue down the strip, folding left to right, in triangles each time, until you reach the end of the strip. This isn't at all difficult and there are lots of videos to show you how online, if you want to take a look before you start.Secure the end of the samosa pastry, using the butter or oil to 'glue' it to the rest of the parcel. Repeat to form all the black pudding parcels.Preheat the oven to 180°C fan.Place the finished black pudding parcels on an oven tray, leaving plenty of space between each, and drizzle with oil or brush with butter. Cook in the oven for 10 minutes.To make the apple dip, put the Bramley apple in a saucepan with the sugar and place over a low heat. Cook the fruit in the apple juices that leak out of it, stirring regularly, until fluffy and soft, then leave to cool. This cooking will happen fairly quickly, and even more rapidly if you cover it with a lid. Mix the cooked apple fluff with the cream cheese, lemon juice and chives.Meanwhile, make the salad. If cooking your own pearl barley, you will need to boil it in salted water for 15-20 minutes. Pearl barley is cooked when you enjoy chewing it!Mix together the oil, vinegar, sugar and a pinch of salt, whisking with a fork to emulsify. Grate the Granny Smith apple into a bowl and stir in the cooked barley, then stir in the dressing. This is best made only at the point when you are going to eat it, as the apple needs to be coated with dressing before it oxidises (turns brown). Scatter with the pecan nuts, to add crunch.Spoon the apple dip into the centre of the plates and make a well in it. Spoon in your pearl barley salad and scatter with the parsley and radicchio leaves. Finish with your black pudding parcels and serve.































RACK OF IRISH LAMB & DOUBLE CAULIFLOWERAs I've been writing for this book about the recipes that mean the most to me, I've been surprised to find how much my father affects the food I love, since my mother is the great cook in our house and taught me so much. Now here we are heading back to Joe Haugh flavour town! My father loves lamb chops. My entire family loves lamb chops. I love lamb chops.Cauliflower is always a vegetable to be found on my father's plate come dinnertime. In this recipe I really celebrate it, using it as both a charred vegetable and a sauce, and it takes a whole one and a half of them. Already a naturally sweet vegetable, once roasted or caramelised, cauliflower becomes nutty and even more delicious.A great side to go with your lamb and cauliflower is scrunched kale with toasted seeds: scrunch the kale leaves in a vinaigrette (see here and here), massaging it in, then scatter with toasted seeds.SERVES 4FOR THE CAULIFLOWER1½ cauliflowers2 tablespoons vegetable oil100g whole milk100g double creamsea saltFOR THE LAMB2 × 250g French-trimmed racks of lamb2 carrotsTO SERVE200g baguette, sliced2 garlic cloves, halved2 teaspoons extra virgin olive oil, plus more for the baguettehandful of chives, chopped1 tablespoon balsamic vinegar, plus more for the purée1 tablespoon capersBreak the larger natural florets from the cauliflower, then slice each large floret in 3: you want about 6 florets per person, so you need to cut off the 8 biggest florets.Heat up a frying pan and add the oil. Add your cauliflower florets and colour to a hard caramelisation - really scorch them on each side - then sprinkle salt on top. Set aside.Take the rest of the cauliflower including the root (but trim off the woody bit near the end) and chop well. Place in a pot and add your milk, cream and another pinch of salt; the liquids should just reach halfway up the cauliflower. Bring to the boil, then reduce the heat to a low simmer and cook for 5-10 minutes. You should be able to squash a piece of cauliflower against the pot; that's how you know it's ready. Purée until silky-smooth (see here), then taste for salt and adjust if needed. Set aside.Preheat the oven to 170°C fan.Season the lamb racks with salt on all sides, then set aside for 5 minutes while you prepare the carrots. Peel your carrots, slice on an angle about 1cm thick, place in a roasting tin and sprinkle with salt. They will form the base your lamb cooks on, but you will also be eating them. Roast for 5 minutes.Place your racks of lamb, fat side down, in a cold pan. Turn the heat on to medium-low to begin to warm that fat. This allows it to melt away. As it continues to cook, the fat will colour and turn golden brown; when that happens, it's time to get it in the oven.Place the lamb, fat side up, on top of your par-roasted carrots and cook for 8 minutes, then check whether it is done to your requirements (see here to help you cook the meat to the degree you love). If not, continue to cook the lamb for a total of 10 minutes and check again. Once cooked, let the lamb rest, still on the carrots, for 5 minutes. If you have a temperature probe, use it: for medium-rare, the temperature in the centre should be about 47°C (this will climb after the meat has rested, due to its residual heat, see here).Remove the lamb and place it on a carving board, insulating it by wrapping in foil while you finish the vegetables and sauce. Let it rest for about half the total time it took to cook.Pop your cauliflower florets into the oven to heat through. Gently reheat your cauliflower purée in a small saucepan, adding the lamb resting juices.Place the baguette slices on a baking tray and rub them with the cut side of the garlic cloves, then sprinkle with oil and toast in the oven for 3-5 minutes until golden and crunchy.Toss your carrots in the chopped chives, the 2 teaspoons of olive oil and the vinegar.You can carve the rack or leave it whole - for extra wow factor - to serve. Serving the racks whole will also keep the temperature in the meat.Spoon 4-5 tablespoons of cauliflower purée into a serving dish and place the charred cauliflower florets on top. Scatter with the capers and drizzle with a little balsamic vinegar.Put a spoon of cauliflower purée on each plate, add the carrots and the lamb, drizzle the carrots with their vinaigrette and serve, with the dish of cauliflower florets on the side.Tricks of the TradeYou will probably have more cauliflower purée than you need, because you need a certain volume in a blender in order for the blades to process it into a purée. However, the next day, stir in a little more milk, reheat it gently and you have a great soup to eat for lunch, either scattered with cheese or, for a treat, with my Ultimate Cheese & Ham Double Decker Toastie (see here).















THE BIG CELEBRATION ROASTMost families have big get-togethers for birthdays, engagements, graduations, Christmas or during the Easter break. The key to a perfect roast dinner is timing, so I've provided a timings chart. The chart assumes you are cooking all these recipes to be ready at the same time, to help with mapping out the day. Your turkey will need long, slow cooking, to make sure it is juicy and tender, and you want to get the items that can be cooked and left waiting done, to relieve stress.All the components here are meant to be served family sharing-style, so no plating is needed. Make sure you have the serving dishes and platters that you plan to use organised in advance and that they are all a suitable size for their intended purpose. Along the same lines, I would recommend laying the table the night before, planning where the serving dishes will fit, so it all goes to plan.I've chosen turkey for this roast, but a beef joint would work equally well with the same marinade. If using beef, ask your butcher for its cooking time.ALL RECIPES SERVE 6200g buttermilk20g salt½ bunch of thyme, crushed and scrunched in your hands3 garlic cloves, crushedfinely grated zest and juice of 2 lemons7kg turkeyTO SERVE50g salted butter, meltedleaves from ½ bunch of parsley, choppedfinely grated zest and juice of 1 lemonMix the buttermilk, salt, thyme, garlic, lemon zest and juice, smear it all over the turkey and leave to marinate for 1 hour. Preheat the oven to 160°C fan.Put the turkey in a large oven tray - ideally one you can fit the potatoes in later - and place in the oven for 2½ hours.Now look at the turkey. Is it golden brown? If so, don't increase the oven temperature or it will scorch and be dry. Increase the oven temperature to 200°C fan only if it needs more colour. Either way, continue to cook your turkey for 30 minutes.Time to check the core temperature of the turkey. It should measure 60°C in the centre. When the oven is at 200°C fan, it will create residual heat (see right), so the temperature of the meat will continue rising as it rests for 1 hour. If the internal temperature is 60°C, take the turkey out of the oven. If you do not have a temperature probe, you still need to test whether the turkey is cooked: perform the skewer test and also push a skewer or thin knife into the thickest part: the juices should run clear. If they are pinkish, cook for 15 minutes more, then test again.Either way, when the turkey is ready, wrap it in foil and rest in a dish to catch the cooking juices.When it's time to serve, unwrap the turkey, adding its juices to the gravy pan, or tossing the veg in the juices if your gravy is already perfect.Start carving your turkey and plate on a large serving platter with the Stuffing balls.To serve, mix the melted butter with the parsley, lemon zest and juice and keep warm. When you're ready to serve the turkey, brush the warm lemony butter over the slices with a pastry brush.







PERFECT ROAST POTATOESThe potatoes can be peeled and kept in cold water overnight, if you want to get ahead. You can also roast them completely earlier in the day, then reheat them to serve.3kg Maris Piper potatoes1 teaspoon sea salt50g plain flour100g vegetable oil, or melted duck fat1 garlic bulb1 thyme sprigPreheat the oven to 200°C fan.Peel the potatoes. Now decide what you value the most from your roast potatoes: crispiness, or the ratio of fluffy to crisp. The smaller you cut them, the crunchier they will be. I cut them slightly off-centre into triangle-shaped pieces. Boil in a large pot of water with the salt for about 20 minutes, or until you can slide a knife into them. Drain in a colander and give the potatoes a shake to fluff them up, sift over the flour - this helps them to become extra-crunchy - and shake well.Transfer to a roasting tray (around the meat, if you want to and have a large enough tray) and pour the oil or melted duck fat on top. Roast for 1 hour 20 minutes. Halfway through cooking, turn them over and add the garlic bulb, with the top sliced off to reveal the top of the cloves, and the thyme sprig. If the potatoes are already golden brown, reduce the oven temperature to 170°C fan. If they are still pale, continue to cook at 200°C fan.Tricks of the TradeA major trick of professional chefs is residual heat cooking. You check the temperature of something and know it will keep cooking while it rests, so you can remove it from the heat and avoid overcooking. You must check the temperature before you rest protein, for accurate cooking. Calibrate your temperature probe in boiling water, to make sure it is working properly.







SPROUT SLAWIf you can't face slicing 1kg of sprouts, you can slice 500g of them and add 500g of shredded white cabbage. This recipe will also work made entirely with any cabbage, such as Savoy or Hispi. It may sound simple, but my goodness is it one that I believe will permanently stick in your repertoire. It's a Haugh family staple and is excellent with cold cuts the next day in a sandwich. What makes this recipe so lovely is that you can use the spices you love.1 tablespoon honey50g (about 3½ tablespoons) white wine vinegar1kg of the biggest sprouts you can find, sliced extra finely, or grated (or see recipe introduction)100g olive oil½ teaspoon sea salt1 teaspoon caraway seeds, or cumin seeds, or chilli flakes, or finely sliced red chilli1 teaspoon pink peppercorns, crushedMix the honey into the vinegar in a small cup until smooth, then simply mix all the ingredients together.







GLORIOUS GRAVYIf you have made your gravy ahead of time and frozen it, ideally take it out of the freezer the day before and let it defrost in the fridge overnight, then just bring it up to the boil before serving. It's also vegetarian unless you add any meat juices.2 tablespoons vegetable oil2 onions, chopped2 garlic cloves, crushed250g red wine1 vegetable stock cube800g boiling watera couple of thyme sprigs2 tablespoons plain flourhandful of chopped tarragon leaves (optional)a few knobs of butter (optional)Heat up the oil in a frying pan over a medium heat, add the onions and garlic and cook until golden brown. Pour in the red wine and reduce down by two-thirds.Meanwhile, dissolve the vegetable stock cube in the measured boiling water.Add the stock and thyme to the onions and bring to the boil.In a small bowl or cup, mix the flour with 2 tablespoons of water to make a paste, then mix that into your gravy. Don't add salt yet, because if you're planning to add the juices from a roast, they might be salty, so always wait until you have added those before you adjust the seasoning. Cool the gravy, then freeze, if making ahead.Bring to the boil, add any resting juices from the meat, then taste and adjust the seasoning to serve. If you like, and it works with your meal, you could whisk in the tarragon and butter just before serving.























STUFFING BALLSTo make your life easier, you should make these ahead, so they only need to be cooked on the day.150g breadcrumbs, or crushed stale crackers400g sausagemeat (if you want to make this vegetarian, use 200g crushed chickpeas and 200g grated cheese)1 egg, lightly beatenfresh herbs (I used the leaves from 3 lemon thyme sprigs, ½ bunch of parsley and 10 sage leaves), chopped2 teaspoons sea salt50g (about 3½ tablespoons) watera little oilMix all the ingredients except the oil together, adding the water at the end, just when you think you have mixed it all enough (see here). Shape into 25-30 bite-sized balls (you can mix and form these the day before) and place on a baking tray.Preheat the oven to 200°C fan. Drizzle the stuffing balls with oil and roast for 20 minutes.







PIMPED-UP CARROTSWhile these are just wonderful with a roast joint, you can turn them into a dish on their own. Spoon 2 tablespoons of hummus on to a plate, put the carrots on top with a handful of spinach leaves, scatter on a few toasted nuts and you have a show-stopping lunch.6 extra-large carrots1 teaspoon sugar1½ teaspoons sea salt100g maple syrup50g Dijon mustard2 teaspoons cumin seeds, crushed1 teaspoon chilli flakes1 teaspoon coriander seeds, crushed1 teaspoon sesame seedspalmful of thyme leavesPut your carrots in a large pot of water with the sugar and 1 teaspoon of the salt and cook for 5 minutes, or until you can slide a knife easily inside them. Run them under cold water to halt the residual cooking (see here), then drain. Cut the carrots in half lengthways and lay on a baking tray.Mix the maple syrup and mustard together. Spoon this glaze on top of the carrots and sprinkle with ½ teaspoon more salt, all the spices and seeds and the thyme leaves.Preheat the oven to 200°C fan. Roast for 20 minutes.







NUTTYLICIOUS LOAFThis is so full of flavour and texture and satisfaction that I think anyone who doesn't eat meat will be reassured that their dish challenges the more conventional main course. It's worth putting a bit of effort into this, and into making it look good, as it should be celebrated and everyone will enjoy eating it.You can make this ahead of time, then slice it into thick pieces and sear like a steak to serve. Or you can place the whole loaf back in the oven on a baking tray lined with baking parchment, cook for 15 minutes, then serve it as a centrepiece.If you want to make this vegan, remove the eggs, add some extra breadcrumbs and stock and cook the mixture for a little longer in the pan, then bake in the same way.SERVES 6FOR THE LOAF2 teaspoons fennel seeds3-4 tablespoons olive oil4 garlic cloves, crushed2 teaspoons chopped rosemary leaves, plus more to serve2 teaspoons chopped thyme leaves, plus more to serve2 banana shallots, or small red onions, finely chopped200g cooked lentils200g pumpkin (skinned and deseeded weight), grated200g breadcrumbs100g rolled oats300g vegetable stock120g toasted hazelnuts120g sunflower seeds60g pumpkin seeds4 eggs, lightly beaten2 teaspoons sea saltedible flowers, to serve (optional)FOR THE GLAZE1 tablespoon Vegemite200g sugar50g (about 3½ tablespoons) white wine vinegar50g (about 3½ tablespoons) waterPreheat the oven to 180°C fan and line a 900g loaf tin with baking parchment. If your loaf tin is a little rusty, I'd recommend lining it with foil first and then with baking parchment.Tip the fennel seeds into a dry frying pan, place over a medium heat and stir until toasted and fragrant. Immediately tip into a mortar, or a small food processor, and grind or blitz to a powder.Pour the oil into a medium saucepan, add your garlic and cook for 1 minute until it's almost turning golden brown, then add the herbs and ground fennel seeds and stir until aromatic. Add your shallots or onions and cook for 5-10 minutes over a low heat.Add the lentils, pumpkin, breadcrumbs, oats and stock and cook for a few minutes, stirring to bring the mix together. Make sure everything is well cooked out, then stir in all but a handful of the nuts and seeds.Tip into a bowl and stir in your eggs well, along with the salt. Press the mixture into your prepared tin, then bake for 35 minutes.Meanwhile, for the glaze, mix all the ingredients in a saucepan, place over a medium-low heat and stir continuously until the sugar has fully dissolved.Once you are ready to serve, brush the nut loaf with the glaze and scatter with your reserved nuts and seeds and the extra herbs. Add some marigold petals (Irish saffron!) if you like and if they are in season, or chive flowers, then serve.























This chart presumes you have, in advance:• Cooked the Nuttylicious loaf,• Made the Stuffing balls and Glorious gravy,• The night before, defrosted your gravy, if needed.GOOD LUCK!TIMINGS CHART  THE DAY BEFORE     Clear your work space! Make sure work surfaces are clear and clean and put away any clutter. Plan which cookware and serving crockery you will be using for each dish. If you need to supplement your cookware, buy some recyclable foil trays (these will also help with clean-up afterwards).   BEFORE YOU BEGIN     If you think it's likely that people will be wandering in and out for lemonade, crisps or wine top-ups, get them out of the kitchen and into another room.   9AM     Marinate the turkey in the buttermilk, salt, thyme, garlic and lemon zest and juice for 1 hour.   9.30AM     This is a good time to peel your potatoes and carrots if you haven't done that the night before.        Time to make your Sprout slaw. Once it is made, spoon it into your serving dish, cover and place somewhere cool. (We know: there's no space in the fridge today.)   9.45AM     Preheat the oven to 160°C fan.   10AM     After an hour of marinating, put the turkey in a large oven tray and place in the preheated oven for 2½ hours.   11.30AM     Parboil your carrots. Drain and dress with the maple mix and seeds and place on an oven tray lined with baking parchment.   12PM     Time to parboil your potatoes.   12.30 PM    Check the colour of your turkey. If needed, increase the oven temperature to 200°C fan. Either way, continue to cook for 30 minutes.        Lay your potatoes around the turkey, or roast them on their own tray. Drizzle with the vegetable oil or melted duck fat.   1PM     Increase the oven temperature to 200°C fan, if you haven't already done so.        Time to check the core temperature of the turkey. It ideally should measure 60°C in the centre. When the oven is at 200°C fan, it will create residual heat (see here), so the temperature of the turkey will continue rising as it rests for 1 hour. If the internal temperature is 60°C, take the turkey out of the oven. If you do not have a temperature probe, you still need to test whether the turkey is cooked. Push a skewer or thin knife into the thickest part: the juices should run clear. If they are pinkish, cook for 15 minutes more, then test again. And do the skewer temperature check, too (see here ). Either way, when the turkey is ready, wrap it in foil and rest in a dish to catch the cooking juices.  1.15PM     Turn your potatoes over and, if they are pale, return them to the oven at the same temperature. If they are golden brown, reduce the temperature of the oven to 180°C fan.   1.30PM     Place the Pimped-up carrots and Stuffing balls in the oven to roast for 20 minutes.   1.40PM     Bring your gravy up to the boil and pour into your gravy boat.        Make the glaze for the Nuttylicious loaf.        Put the cooked Nuttylicious loaf in the oven to reheat.   1.50PM     Check your Perfect roast potatoes: if they are done, take them out and pile them high in your serving dish.   2PM     Start carving your turkey and plate on a large serving platter with the Stuffing balls, adding any turkey juices to the Glorious gravy pan and then adjusting the seasoning. Brush the turkey slices with the warm lemony butter.        Glaze the Nuttylicious loaf.        Place the carrots in their serving dish, take everything to the table and tuck in.  







AUNTY ANN'S SHOW-STOPPING CARROT CAKE WITH CARROT JAMAunty Ann is my godmother. I have to say our family were blessed that she inherited her Aunty Connie's touch in the kitchen. I have eaten so many dishes made by her hands and have never been in anything but complete bliss with every bite. It was her carrot cake that really rocked my world, with the chunky walnuts on top that add such great texture.This is a three-layer cake that will turn heads when it is brought into the room. The carrot jam is optional, but a nice touch, and if you make a large amount it's great with The perfect fluffy scones and cream.SERVES AT LEAST 16FOR THE JAM (OPTIONAL)300g carrots, grated150g jam sugar (easily found in the supermarket, this is sugar with pectin added)50g (about 3½ tablespoons) waterseeds from 2 green cardamom pods, crushed1 cinnamon sticksqueeze of lemon juice (optional)FOR THE CAKE450g vegetable oil, plus more for the tin400g carrots, grated½ teaspoon fine sea salt100g buttermilk500g demerara sugar5 eggs, lightly beaten450g plain flour1 tablespoon ground cinnamon½ teaspoon ground ginger2 teaspoons bicarbonate of soda100g whole walnutsbunch of mintFOR THE ICING150g unsalted butter, at room temperature300g icing sugar500g cream cheese, at room temperaturejuice of 1-2 lemonsBefore you start the jam, put a saucer into the fridge or freezer.To make the jam, put all your ingredients except the lemon juice in a saucepan and boil for 30 minutes, stirring occasionally. To test the set, you have 2 options. Check on a temperature probe: it is ready when it has reached 105°C. Or take a small amount of jam and put it on the chilled saucer. (Turn off the heat while testing, to avoid overcooking.) Leave for 5 minutes. Run your finger through the jam: it should hold a strong line where your finger was. If it runs back together, keep cooking for another 10-15 minutes. Whichever test you are using, perform it again and again until the jam is ready to take off the heat. When cool enough, taste the jam, and add the lemon juice if you think it needs it.Cover the jam and place in the fridge to set before using. This will keep for weeks covered in the fridge, or in a cupboard for up to 1 week. Or sterilise the jars if you like (see right) and it will keep for up to 1 year.Now for the cake. Preheat the oven to 180°C fan. Oil 3 × 20cm round cake tins and line the bases with baking parchment.Put your grated carrots in a bowl, add the salt to them and mix well. Stir in your buttermilk. Now mix in your sugar, then beat in the eggs until incorporated. Finally, beat in your oil.Mix the flour, cinnamon, ginger and bicarb in a large bowl and make a well in the centre. Pour the carrot mixture into the well and whisk into a batter.Pour into the prepared tins and bake for 25 minutes. The cakes are ready when a skewer inserted into the middle emerges clean. (To be doubly sure, the cakes will be ready when they have reached 95-98°C on a probe thermometer.) Cool the cakes in their tins for 10 minutes, then remove from the tins.While the cake is baking, make your icing.In a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, tip in your room-temperature butter. The butter should be soft enough for your finger to easily slide into it, but not melted in any way. (Or you can also do this with electric beaters and a mixing bowl.)Beat the butter on a medium-high setting for 1 minute, then reduce the speed to low and spoon in your icing sugar gradually (this is to stop a cloud of icing sugar going everywhere).Once that is done, you are going to add the cream cheese. It is very important that the cream cheese is at the same room temperature as the rest of the beaten mixture. If it is cold, it will set the butter and the icing will look split and not have a nice texture. Beat this in gradually, then add the juice of 1 lemon, beat this in too, then check for acidity. Add more lemon juice if you like, until the flavour is right for you. Swirl the carrot jam through the icing, making sure it is rippled and not mixed in fully.Once the cake is cooled, you're ready to layer it up. Put the first layer flat side down on a serving plate. Spoon one-third of the icing on top, smooth it around, then add the next layer of cake. Continue this until you have iced the top of the cake, decorate with the walnuts and mint leaves, then serve.Tricks of the TradeTo sterilise jars, wash them really well in hot soapy water, then set on a tray lined with baking parchment and put in an oven preheated to 90°C fan for 10 minutes. Put the lids in a saucepan of boiling water and return to the boil. Pot still-hot jam into still-hot jars. Cover the surface of the jam with circles of baking parchment, then seal the lids on tightly.I then set the jars in my dishwasher and run the cycle, but you can also line a large saucepan with a sheet of cardboard and set the jars on that, then pour in water until it comes halfway up the levels of the jars. Bring to the boil, then simmer gently for 20 minutes. The jam will easily keep for a year.























IRISH BUTTERED FUDGE WITH A SECRET INGREDIENTWhite chocolate is the secret ingredient here, because it will make your fudge taste professional: it gives it a really good consistency, that smoothness which means you will see your teeth marks when you bite into it (though, if you like crumbly fudge, this isn't the recipe for you). I use caster rather than granulated sugar, as it's less likely to crystallise.You will need a temperature probe, don't try to start freestyling this recipe. Make sure your probe works, by putting it in a pot of boiling water and checking it measures 100°C.It's important to use Irish or at least British butter here, because of their low whey and high fat contents.FILLS A 25 21CM CONTAINER315g caster sugar315g double cream100g liquid glucose50g salted Irish butter, chopped, plus more for the tray100g white chocolate, finely choppedPut the sugar, cream and glucose in a large saucepan, set it over a medium heat and keep an eye on it, giving it a whisk occasionally. Butter a 25 × 21cm tray or Tupperware dish and line it with baking parchment.Bring the sugar mixture up to 121°C. Once it reaches around 115°C it will be prone to burning on the bottom, so make sure you stir it constantly. If you are unlucky and it burns, switch pots immediately.Once the mixture reaches temperature, it will be light brown in colour and you will have noticed the quality of its bubbles becoming larger and more viscous. Take it off the heat.Quickly beat in half the chocolate, then half the butter, mixing to combine them with a whisk, then repeat to add the remaining chocolate and butter. When it is all combined, pour into the prepared tray or dish and leave to set until cooled.Place in the fridge to chill overnight.Turn out on to a chopping board and cut into fudge squares. Store in an airtight box, with the layers of pieces stacked in between sheets of baking parchment. The fudge will last for weeks in the fridge, or a couple of months in the freezer.























SweetsI have to confess I don't have a particularly sweet tooth, but I am human, so I love a soft moist sponge with whipped unsweetened cream and fruit. Who doesn't?Due to the fact - I can only assume - that I was born with ovaries, I was put in the pastry section when I started work in professional kitchens, whether I liked it or not. And it turned out that, although I may not always order a dessert, I certainly love learning how to make them. I love the detail and how - if rules aren't followed - things can go drastically wrong. I eventually escaped from the pastry section after three or four years, but it was a privilege to have been trained by the wonderful chef Mary (Knox) McEvoy. She taught me everything I know about desserts and that knowledge has stood me well over the years. Mary didn't just teach me about pastry though; she encouraged me to help others when asked and to do a task quickly during a restaurant service, because, if you don't start with speed, you'll end up overwhelmed in the middle of dinner.The dessert recipes I have included in this chapter are focused on sharing with others. Some of the dishes are easy, such as the lemongrass posset, while others take a bit of time, such as the large cakes. But there's a reason for them all: sometimes making a large cake for a crowd is easier and more affordable than creating three of a more regular size, for instance.I have chosen recipes here to appeal both to people who love sweet things and to those who don't think they do. You never know, I may just persuade you...







OAT CAKESThis is an important recipe for me. A staple for Celts and part of our heritage, these are something everyone should be able to cook. And I am very happy to say I love them, as oat biscuits of any sort are my go-to. These are on the sweeter side of the oat cake spectrum, so you can have them on the side of a dessert, as well as with your cheese, or just as a snack. However, the recipe is lovely sweet or savoury; just reduce the sugar by half for a more savoury oat cake. And usefully, you should be able to replace the flour here with a gluten-free alternative, gram for gram, and get an excellent result.Don't be afraid to get stuck in when mixing this recipe, using your hands. The more you mix all the ingredients together, the better these oat cakes will be.MAKES ABOUT 30125g unsalted butter225g porridge oats110g plain flour140g caster sugar1 teaspoon baking powderpinch of fine sea salt1 teaspoon ground gingerseeds from 7 cardamom pods, or ½ teaspoon ground cardamom seeds1-2 tablespoons waterMelt the butter in a pan and leave it to cool down.Preheat the oven to 160°C fan. Line a couple of baking sheets with baking parchment.Put all the dry ingredients in a mixing bowl. Sprinkle in the slightly cooled melted butter and rub it in with your fingers until it's evenly mixed through, then make a well in the centre. Now add 1 tablespoon of the water to the well and really massage the contents of the bowl, combining the ingredients and making sure to work the mixture a lot with your hands to slightly break down the oats. If it's too dry, add a touch more water to the mix and continue to massage. When the mixture sticks together, it's ready.Once it's all mixed, roll out the dough between 2 sheets of baking parchment until it's about as thick as a pound coin.Remove the top layer of baking parchment and cut out circles, or whatever other shapes you prefer for your oat cakes, with pastry cutters, then move them to the prepared baking sheets.Bake for 10-15 minutes, or until golden brown in colour. Store in an airtight container, where they will keep for 2 weeks. If they go soft, whack them back in the oven briefly to crisp up.















SPICED BANANA BREADMy dad grew up in Ringsend, by the sea in Dublin. When he was young, a ship came into the dock carrying a load of bananas. The cargo was left unsupervised, so he took a stick of bananas - it seems bonkers to me now - and ran home with them on his shoulder. Back then, bananas would have been a super-luxury. Even though he knew they weren't ripe, he recruited his younger brother - my uncle Tony - to help him eat some. They filled their bellies with the green bananas and, when my grandmother came home, she found two of her sons on the floor holding their bellies and crying. She was so worried! Well, at least until my (devout Catholic) grandmother found out they had gorged on stolen bananas... I'm pretty sure the boys were given a piece of her mind.Though we photographed the recipe here with a halved banana on top, be aware that - should you want to do the same - it adds jeopardy to the bread, as it may not cook through correctly. I've left it off in the recipe and suggest you do the same.Traditionally, throughout Ireland, caraway was used in sweet recipes and I use it a lot at home and in my restaurant. It's a great flavour that can spice a recipe up without any heat. Now DO NOT throw your banana skins away. If you are looking for a recipe that will blow your mind, turn to page 90 for my vegan pulled pork made with banana skins. Yes, really.MAKES 1 × 500G LOAF120g unsalted butter, at room temperature, plus more for the tin120g demerara sugar, or 110g caster sugar plus 1 tablespoon black treacle2 teaspoons ground cinnamon1 tablespoon caraway seeds3 ripe or over-ripe bananas, mashed with a fork2 eggs, at room temperature120g self-raising flour1 tablespoon milk, if neededfine sea saltPreheat the oven to 160°C fan. Butter a 500g loaf tin.Cream your butter and sugar, treacle, if using, cinnamon and caraway on a medium setting in a food mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, or use electric beaters and a bowl. Beat for 5 minutes, until lighter in colour and creamy in texture.Add your mashed bananas, a pinch of salt, 1 egg and half the flour. Mix well. Add your second egg and mix well again. Now add the last of your flour, with the milk, if needed, to give a dropping consistency. Scrape the batter into the prepared tin.Bake for 55-65 minutes. Use a metal skewer to dip into the centre of the cake and, if it comes out clean, the loaf is baked. If there is any batter on the skewer, pop the tin back into the oven for 5 minutes to finish cooking.I like to toast slices of this and spread them with salted butter.















THE PERFECT FLUFFY SCONES, WITH HOMEMADE GOOSEBERRY JAMWe grew up with homebaked scones as a very regular treat. Cakes and sweet things bought in the shops were strictly for Saturdays. My mother only made scones in a triangle shape, which is a genius way to get the maximum portions from your dough, plus if you don't have cutters, well, it's a win-win.If you don't have buttermilk or yogurt for the scones, you can substitute 100-120g whole milk instead.My mother's jam recipe is simple, but don't you think that means it won't be special. I dream of gooseberry jam all year round, so, if you are lucky to grow gooseberries out in your garden or allotment, then harvest those valuable jewels and make this!MAKES 8-10 SCONES AND 3 × 340G JARS OF JAMFOR THE SCONES350g self-raising flour, plus more to dust1 teaspoon baking powder40g icing sugar85g unsalted butter, very cold from the fridge, or frozen200g buttermilk, or natural yogurt (or see recipe introduction)1 egg, lightly beaten1 teaspoon vanilla extractFOR THE JAM1kg gooseberries900g jam sugar100g waterPreheat the oven to 170°C fan. Line a baking tray with baking parchment.For the scones, mix all the dry ingredients together. Grate the extremely cold butter straight into your dry ingredients, then crumble the mix between your fingertips, rubbing it together and lifting high in the air. A quick game is a good game, so you don't warm the butter. Mix the liquid ingredients in a jug. Create a well in the centre of the flour and add your liquids. Stir from the centre, moving outwards with the spoon. When the flour is almost mixed in, you'll need to get your hands in and give it a very quick knead: less is more for a soft, fluffy texture.You can of course make this in a stand mixer. Use the same process and doubly make sure you do not overwork it.Dust a work surface with flour and roll the dough out to 3cm thick, then shape it with your hands into a rough square. Cut into 3 strips with a sharp knife, then cut each of those into as close to triangles as you can. If they are a little misshapen, it's all good. Try to cut them all out now, though you can reroll the mix once more and cut into triangles again. (If you use a cutter instead and have any dough left over, you can make it into rock bun bites, by adding raisins and rolling in sugar.)Place the scones on a baking tray lined with baking parchment and bake in the oven for 15 minutes.Leave to cool, but these are best eaten as soon as possible, even with a breath of the oven still about them, with salted butter, jam and unsweetened whipped or clotted cream.Wash and top and tail the gooseberries. This takes a bit of time, so do it while you watch TV or listen to a podcast. Put a saucer in the fridge or freezer.Put the sugar in a heavy-based saucepan with the measured water. Place over a medium-low heat and heat slowly, stirring occasionally, until the sugar has completely dissolved. You do not want the sugar to change colour. Add the gooseberries and cook for 20 minutes.To test the set, you have 2 options. Check on a temperature probe: it is ready when it has reached 105°C. Or take a small amount of jam and put it on the chilled saucer. (Turn off the heat while testing, to avoid overcooking.) Leave for 5 minutes. Run your finger through the jam: it should hold a strong line where your finger was. If it runs back together, keep cooking for another 10-15 minutes. Whichever test you are using, perform it again and again until the jam is ready to take off the heat.Pot the still-hot jam into still-hot sterilised jars (see here). Cover the surface of the jam with circles of baking parchment, then seal the lids on tightly and sterilise once more, as directed here, in the dishwasher or in a large pan. It will keep for at least a year.Tricks of the TradeIf you only have a small amount of gooseberries, make use of their high pectin content by mixing them with blackcurrants, or even apples, in other jams and jellies, to help those to set.















GUINNESS CHOCOLATE CAKEThis cake is crazy-easy and stays fresh in the fridge for three days. Though it has a high sugar content, the bitter Guinness and sour buttermilk provide balance and, together, they are why the cake stays fresh for so long. It's a great birthday cake - the one I make most for people - that you can make well in advance, as both the sponge and the cream freeze very well. Even my son has been fed it, as the alcohol is cooked off. This is a very wet batter, so don't worry: that's the way it's supposed to be.SERVES 10-12FOR THE SPONGE500g Guinness125g unsalted butter, plus more for the tins140g plain flour200g caster sugar35g cocoa powder1 teaspoon bicarbonate of soda½ teaspoon baking powderpinch of fine sea salt1 egg, lightly beaten75g buttermilkFOR THE CREAM300g double cream60g icing sugar50g buttermilk30g mascarpone1 vanilla pod, seeds scraped outPlace a saucepan under an extraction fan, pour in the Guinness and set over a high heat. Reduce to half the quantity (250g). Set aside to cool. Melt the butter in a pan, then leave it to cool.Butter 2 swiss roll tins, each about 30 × 20cm, and line the bases with baking parchment. Preheat the oven to 160°C fan.Place the flour, sugar, cocoa, bicarb, baking powder and salt in a bowl, whisk to mix, then make a well in the centre. Add 125g of the Guinness reduction with the cooled melted butter, egg and buttermilk and whisk the batter until no lumps are left.Divide the mixture between the 2 prepared tins, then bake for 10 minutes. Insert a metal skewer into the centre: when it emerges, it should be clean; also the sponge should bounce back to the touch. It should be just cooked, rather than overcooked. The mix is wet and you really need to use a metal skewer to check it's done in the centre. Leave in the tins to cool, then put a rack over the tins and turn them out. Leave until cold, then chill. The sponge needs to be chilled when you're cutting it to assemble the cake.Halve both chilled cakes widthways, then trim the sponges so you have 4 matching flat layers that will sit neatly on top of each other.Whip together the cream, icing sugar, buttermilk, mascarpone and vanilla seeds to soft peaks (see below). Use this to sandwich the cake layers together. Serve in slices, so you see the layers.Tricks of the TradeAdding mascarpone to double cream is an amazing tip given to me by a fantastic pastry chef, Rey (Hortillosa) Encarnacion from the Conrad Hotel in Dublin. When you add mascarpone to whipped cream, it never loses its air and is less likely to split.















LEMON, LEMONGRASS & CARDAMOM POSSETThis is my idea of a perfect dessert, something I often cook for a dinner party, because I like to eat it (and I am fussy about desserts). It's not only bursting with flavour, but it's very convenient to make and serve. It's zingy, sweet and sharp all at the same time: just what you want after a big meal.Recipes don't get much easier than this. At the end, you have a luscious pudding that your friends and family will rave about. You can serve it with shortbread biscuits on the side, or lovely sweet Oat cakes.We don't use mint enough in desserts, in my opinion. It's probably because we chefs overdid it with the leaves twenty years ago! I use it a lot; I find it pairs brilliantly with so many other flavours.MAKES 6FOR THE LEMON REDUCTIONjuice of 2 lemons (see below)seeds of 4 green cardamom pods, crushedFOR THE POSSET200g caster sugar500g double cream2 lemongrass stalks, trimmedTO SERVEfinely grated lemon zestsmall mint leavesOat cakes, or shortbread biscuitsFirst make the reduction: put the lemon juice in a saucepan and reduce by half. Once done, add the ground cardamom seeds, return to the boil, then leave to cool.Add all the other ingredients for the posset, bruising the lemongrass stalks with the back of a heavy knife or a rolling pin to release their aroma, then bring to the boil.Pass through a sieve, then pour into 6 glasses. Do not move the glasses for 10 minutes: this will allow the posset to set slightly, so when you do move them to the fridge, the mix doesn't splash up the sides of the glasses.Leave for as long as you can in the fridge, ideally overnight. Serve with lemon zest and ripped mint leaves on top and Oat cakes on the side.Tricks of the TradeDon't waste the zest of lemons when you only need their juice for a recipe. Instead, infuse the zest in a bottle of olive oil, or put it in a tub of granulated sugar. This citrus-scented sugar is a secret weapon which will gently flavour cakes and other bakes. Or, of course, just freeze the zest as it is for another time.















BUTTERMILK PANNA COTTA WITH LIGHTLY POACHED STRAWBERRIES & RIPPED BASILYes, this is pudding, but as the recipe uses buttermilk, it's practically a health food! Just like real yogurt, we take buttermilk for granted, but it contains live cultures that are supposed to be included in everyone's daily diet. They are excellent for the health of your gut.Panna cotta is a staple dessert for me, both at home and in the restaurant. It's simple and elegant and very easy to scale up to feed a crowd. I never tire of it. As the end of a meal, it works year round, because of the infinite ways in which you can change what you serve alongside it. This version is for midsummer, but it sits well alongside pink rhubarb in deep winter, too, or mangos in springtime, just as they arrive in season from India.To add a little texture, serve a biscuit or shortbread alongside, or consider making a sweet crumble, baked in the oven to add crispness, to strew over the top.MAKES 4-6 GLASSESFOR THE PANNA COTTA2 gelatine sheets1 vanilla pod300g double cream75g caster sugarjuice of 1 lemon, plus more if needed300g buttermilkleaves from ½ bunch of basil, to serveFOR THE STRAWBERRIES50g sugarfinely grated zest and juice of 1 lime500g strawberries, hulled and halvedPut the gelatine sheets in a small bowl of iced water and leave them to 'bloom' (soften and hydrate) while you prepare the cream mixture.With a sharp knife, split the vanilla pod lengthways, then use the tip of the knife to scrape the seeds out into a saucepan. Add the cream to the pan with the pod. (This will add extra flavour and you will be straining the mixture later.) Add the sugar and place the saucepan over a medium-high heat, stirring occasionally, until you are sure that the sugar has all dissolved.Once the cream is steaming - just before it boils - remove it from the heat, squeeze the gelatine sheets of water and add them to the hot mix, stirring to combine, then add the lemon juice, tasting the mix to make sure it's acidic enough and adding more juice if you think it needs it (but remember you will be adding the tart buttermilk in a little while). Pass the mixture through a sieve into a heatproof bowl, then set this bowl into an ice bath (a larger bowl filled with ice cubes), stirring as it gradually cools.It's a good idea to dry the vanilla pod on a sheet of kitchen paper, then seal it in a jar of sugar, to give you vanilla sugar. (You can add more spent vanilla pods and sugar to the jar as you use them.)Once the cream mixture is cool, mix it with the buttermilk and pour into 4-6 wine glasses. Place in the fridge to set for at least 4 hours, but preferably overnight.Meanwhile, get on with the strawberries. Place the sugar in a saucepan with the lime juice and strawberries and cook over a medium heat, covered with the lid, for about 5 minutes, stirring occasionally. Let cool. When the berries are cool, add the lime zest.Top the panna cottas with the lightly poached strawberries and ripped basil leaves.















CHOCOLATE & CARAWAY MOUSSEPart of the reason I love caraway is that it's a flavour that is equally at home with both sweet and savoury foods. You can stick the seeds in coleslaw, or scatter them over chicken breasts before roasting, as a great 'extra' flavour. Chefs forget to tell the home cook that the layering of flavours - such as veg, spices and nuts - gives real length of flavour and complexity to a dish. As you taste this, you will experience more layers of flavour coming in.SERVES 6-8300g dark chocolate, minimum 56% cocoa solids, broken into small pieces7 large egg yolks140g caster sugar1 teaspoon ground caraway seeds400g double creamfine sea saltPut the chocolate into a large heatproof bowl and set that over a pan of simmering water (make sure the bowl does not touch the water). Melt the chocolate, then leave to cool slightly.Whisk the egg yolks with the sugar and caraway seeds until pale and thick.Separately whip the cream to soft peaks, then fold this into the egg yolk mixture.Fold the melted chocolate into the cream mixture, along with a pinch of salt. Divide between glasses and chill.















VA-VA-VOOM CHOCOLATE BISCUIT CAKEWhen I was a child, every birthday party had a chocolate biscuit cake, and I loved it. When I became an adult, I realised I could put whatever I wanted in such a cake and that it wasn't compulsory to stick to digestive biscuits! So I took a trip to the shops, went a bit wild and bought loads of chocolate bars. I experimented with many different combinations - all in the name of science, of course - came to this version and thought it was the most fun. As well as tasting great, it looks quite dramatic and beautiful.This remains really good to serve at a special occasion to guests of any age - I find it's always the first thing to disappear and the adults are usually to blame - and it's also excellent to keep chilled for an after-dinner treat at the end of a long day. It stays good in the fridge for a very long time. And, of course, kids love it.SERVES 8 GENEROUSLY300g dark chocolate, minimum 56% cocoa solids, chopped into small pieces300g milk chocolate, chopped into small pieces100g unsalted butter, chopped100g double cream2 chocolate bars with nougat, such as Double Deckers2 × 2-bar caramel-shortbread chocolate bars, such as Twix2 chocolate honeycomb bars, such as Crunchies6 shortbread biscuit fingersLine a 1kg loaf tin with clingfilm, baking parchment, or reusable nonstick baking liner.Place the dark and milk chocolates and the butter in a heatproof bowl. Place the bowl over a saucepan of gently simmering water, making sure the bowl does not touch the water. Stir occasionally until melted, then remove the bowl from the heat, pour in the cream and mix well.Pour one-third of the melted chocolate mixture into the prepared tin and layer the chocolate bars with nougat and caramel-shortbread chocolate bars over it.Now pour on another one-third of the chocolate and cream mixture. Add the chocolate honeycomb bars (you may not fit them all in: cook's treat), and shortbread fingers on top. Pour the remaining melted chocolate over the top of that.Place in the fridge for a good couple of hours until completely set, though ideally leaving it overnight would be good. Cut into slices - a knife dipped into boiling water and wiped dry between cuts helps to create neat slices - and serve.















DOUBLE CHOCOLATE & LIME TARTIf you or any of your guests are gluten-free, the tart filling recipe here can be made in individual glasses or ramekins and served as a chocolate pot.You can swap out the lime for any other citrus you prefer, as the chocolate tart will love them all. I think it's particularly brilliant with grapefruit zest, and with grapefruit segments served alongside.During the winter, citrus are at their very best and their oils will give you much more flavour. At other times of year, the flavour will be more muted, so taste your chocolate mix, to check you have the level of zest you want. If not, add a bit more.SERVES 10FOR THE SWEET PASTRY250g plain flour, plus more to dust125g unsalted butter, chilled and chopped, plus more for the tin65g caster sugar2 tablespoons water, plus more if neededFOR THE CHOCOLATE FILLING200g chocolate, at least 38% cocoa solids, broken into pieces200g white chocolate, broken into pieces280g double cream50g unsalted butter, at room temperature, chopped2 limes, plus more lime zest (optional) if needed and to servecocoa powder, to dustcrème fraîche, to servePlace the flour and butter in the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, or in a food processor. Mix until you have a fine crumb, then stir in the sugar. Add the measured water gradually until it becomes a dough (you may need to add more water, if it seems dry). Wrap in clingfilm or reusable wrap and put in the fridge to rest for 30 minutes, or up to 2 days.Preheat the oven to 170°C fan. Find a 23cm cake tin, or tart tin with removable base, and butter it well.Roll the pastry out on a work surface dusted with flour until 3mm thick. Line the cake tin or tart tin with the pastry and trim it neatly. Scrunch up a piece of baking parchment large enough to cover the whole of the pastry shell, then unscrunch it and use it to line the pastry. Fill it with dried lentils, or dried beans, or raw rice, or baking beans, until their level reaches the top of the pastry shell, being sure to get none of them directly on the pastry (or they will bake into the pastry).Bake the pastry shell for 10 minutes until the edges start to turn golden brown, then remove the lentils or beans or rice or baking beans and the baking parchment and cook the pastry for a further 10-15 minutes or until the base starts to turn golden brown and is fully cooked through. This is called baking blind, a process in which the dried pulses, rice or baking beans absorb the heat of the oven to cook the pastry shell, without it rising or burning.Set the pastry aside to cool. While it is cooling, you can make the filling.Put both types of chopped chocolate into a heatproof bowl. Bring your cream up to the boil in a saucepan, then pour it over your chocolate. Let it sit for 2 minutes, then whisk by hand until smooth. Whisk in the soft butter, then finely zest your 2 limes directly into the mix. Stir well. Taste the mixture to see if the lime flavour is at the right level for you, adding more zest if you would like it stronger (see recipe introduction). Pour into your cooled tart shell. Place in the fridge for 1 hour to set.When ready to serve, dust with cocoa powder and some more lime zest, if you like. Serve with a spoon of crème fraîche.Tricks of the TradeAny sweet pastry that you have left over can be rolled out on a lightly floured surface, cut into circles, glazed with beaten egg or milk, sprinkled with sugar and cinnamon, then arranged on a baking tray and baked as biscuits for 10-15 minutes, or until golden. Leave to cool on the baking tray, so they crisp up, before you try to move them.























CITRUS SABAYONThis dessert means a lot to me as I learned how to make sabayon as a first-year apprentice at Cathal Brugha Street DIT in Dublin.Desserts like this do not come around too often. Although it is a very simple recipe, it's incredibly elegant. Berries work really well as a summer variation and are easier to prepare.SERVES 22 medium oranges1 ruby grapefruit20g (4 teaspoons) Cointreau3 large egg yolks2 tablespoons caster sugarFinely grate the zest from 1 orange, then slice the tops and bottoms from both the oranges and the grapefruit.Sitting one of the fruits on its base, with a sharp knife remove all the skin and pith (the white stuff), curving the knife down the sides as though it were a barrel. Working over a bowl, slice the knife between the membranes on either side of each segment so it falls into the bowl, along with any juice. Repeat to peel and segment all the citrus fruits.Add the Cointreau to the bowl, stir gently, then set aside and allow to marinate for 10 minutes.Place a heatproof bowl over a saucepan half-filled with just-boiled water and place over a low heat. Do not allow the water to touch the bowl.Strain the citrus segments through a sieve over a bowl. Add the egg yolks to the bowl with the sugar and orange zest and set it over the saucepan of shimmering water.Whisk with a balloon whisk for 8-10 minutes, or until the mixture is very light, pale and thick. The whisk should leave a ribbon trail when lifted: you should be able to write the number '8' on the surface.Arrange the orange and ruby grapefruit segments in a shallow flameproof dish or plate.Carefully remove the bowl of sabayon from the hot water and spoon the mixture over the citrus segments. Place close to a very hot grill, watching closely, or gently brûlée with a chef's blowtorch, until lightly browned in places. Serve warm.















BLACK FOREST GATEAUOne of the reasons why I put this cake in the book was that, when I was a child, I believed there was some sort of magical whimsy attached to Black Forest gateau. My mother never ever made chocolate cake, but, when we went to a restaurant, we would see the dessert trolleys roll past laden with a whole panoply of temptations... along with their version of Black Forest gateau. I knew what it was, of course, but there is something about Black Forest gateau in particular that is so uncannily good.It's the kirsch syrup on the sponge
-
the magic of the soak
-
adding both moisture and a flavour you can't quite put your finger on. It makes this cake better than any regular chocolate-cake-with-chocolate-icing affair. I'm not keen on cakes unless they are soaked in syrup; then I'm obsessed with them.One taste of this and I'm transported back in time to those dessert trolley days. If the assembly sounds too much, don't be afraid to serve slices of the sponge with the cherries in syrup spooned on top and a bowl of the cream on the side. A marvellous pudding.If you don't have kirsch in the cupboard at home, Cointreau or even Kahlua are nice alternatives.SERVES 8-10FOR THE CHERRIES400g fresh black cherries, or 300g frozen and defrosted black cherries50g granulated sugar, or to taste3 star anise1 tablespoon water50g (about 3½ tablespoons) kirschFOR THE SPONGE200g unsalted butter, plus more for the tins200g self-raising flour50g cocoa powder, sifted200g caster sugarpinch of salt2 medium eggs, lightly beatenup to 50g (about 3½ tablespoons) milk, if neededFOR THE CREAM200g double cream25g mascarponegrated dark chocolate, to serve (optional)If you can, cook the cherries the day before you make the cake, so they can infuse with the star anise overnight. Stone them first; I find it easiest to halve fresh cherries, then quarter the half with the stone and twist, in order to remove it. You can of course use a cherry stoner, if you have one.Put the cherries, sugar and star anise in a wide-based pan with the measured water (if the cherries are frozen, make sure they are defrosted first). Set over a medium heat and cook for about 5 minutes, stirring occasionally, until the cherries are almost softened and releasing their juice. Taste and adjust the sugar, if needed. Cover and allow to cool, add the kirsch, then refrigerate. Leave it overnight, if you have time, to allow the flavour of the star anise to come through; the syrup needs to be chilled before you use it.Preheat the oven to 170°C fan. Butter 2 × 20cm cake tins and line with baking parchment.Melt the butter, then leave it to cool slightly.Mix the flour and cocoa powder together in a bowl with the sugar and salt. Make a well in the centre.Pour the slightly cooled melted butter into the well with the eggs and mix until you have a thick batter. You may need to add the milk, a little at a time, if it looks a bit dry.Split the batter between the prepared tins. Bake for 20 minutes, or until the sponge is risen and bouncy to the touch. Leave to cool for 10-15 minutes, then turn out and transfer to a board, still on the baking parchment, until completely cooled. Chill until ready to assemble.As a rule, I always prefer whipped cream unsweetened, as there's already enough sugar in desserts and a cool creamy contrast is very effective. Whip together the cream and mascarpone to soft peaks; as always, be careful not to overwhip. Again, chill the cream.When you are ready to build the cake, everything - cherries, sponge and cream - needs to be chilled. Drain the cherries in a sieve over a bowl, reserving the juice (discard the star anise).Once the sponges are chilled, carefully peel off the baking parchment. Brush the cherry syrup over both sponges. This gives extra depth of flavour and helps keep the sponge fresher, though it's so delicious it's likely to be eaten up lickedy-quick.Now select your base sponge, put it on a serving plate and spoon the cream on top, then spoon over some cherries, allowing the syrup to run down the sides. Place the second sponge on top.Pile on the remaining cream, followed by the rest of the cherries. Grate over some chocolate, if you like, then serve.























WHIPPED WHITE CHOCOLATE DREAMThis is an adaptation of a technical French dessert called a crémeux, but do
not
let that put you off! I was frightened of it at first, but once I finally approached it, I realised how easy it was. All you need to do is give it a bit of time in the fridge.I keep the flavours simple here, but you can jazz this up with all sorts of treats, such as infusing the hot cream with edible lavender, or a bit of chilli (sounds crazy, is delicious). Leave it to infuse for 30 minutes or so before very gently reheating (don't let it boil), then straining and adding to the white chocolate.This is great with poached plums alongside.SERVES 4170g white chocolate, finely chopped300g double cream1 vanilla pod, split lengthways and seeds scraped outfinely grated orange zest, to servechopped pistachio nuts, to serve (optional)Put the chocolate into a large heatproof bowl. Bring 200g of the cream to the boil with the vanilla seeds and pod. Pour the hot cream over the chocolate and leave for 3 minutes. Stir until smooth, then cover and set the bowl in the fridge until chilled.Once the chocolate mixture is set and chilled, remove the vanilla pod and pour over the remaining 100g cream. Whip the mixture until it is light and airy.Leave to set in the fridge for 24 hours, then sprinkle with the orange zest and pistachios and serve with your favourite biscuit.Tricks of the TradeFor a fancy presentation, chill the mixture in a tub. Put a serving spoon into a cup of just-boiled water. When the spoon is hot, use it to scoop the mixture and drop it in curls on to serving dishes, before scattering with the orange zest and pistachios.















MAMMY'S APPLE TART ON A PLATEMammy only ever used a plate to make an apple tart. As I'm typing this, my memory is taking me back in time to when I was a little kid; my mother's kitchen helper. She's holding the plate and quick-cutting the overhanging pastry off the sides, I'm catching the pastry scraps and am proudly in charge of transforming them into decorations for the top. I was very fond of covering the tart with pastry leaves. It's her pie plate that you see in the photograph here. As a child, I loved sugar, but my mother never added sugar to whipped cream. Back then, I thought that was because she didn't want us to have too much sugar, but now as an adult I realise the cool relief that unsweetened cream gives a dessert.Bramley apples, when cooked, break down very quickly. If you do not have Bramleys, I recommend chopping your apples very finely and cooking them into a compote first, before chilling and placing in the pastry base. You may have more pastry than you need. If you do, just make it into lovely biscuits (see here).SERVES 6-8FOR THE PASTRY225g plain flour, plus more to dustpinch of fine sea salt30g caster sugar150g unsalted butter, very cold from the fridge, or frozen, plus more for the pie plate45g (3 tablespoons) waterFOR THE FILLING700g Bramley apples, peeled and chopped80g caster sugar, plus more if needed (if the apples are extra tart)½ teaspoon ground cloves, or 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon1 egg, lightly beaten200g double cream, softly whipped, to servePut your flour, salt and sugar in a bowl, grate in the very cold butter and, using the tips of your fingers, rub the butter into the flour mixture until it looks like crumbs. Add the measured water and work it quickly into a dough. Wrap the ball of dough and let it rest in the fridge for 1 hour.Preheat the oven to 190°C fan.Rub your pie plate with butter and dust with flour: this will prevent the pastry from sticking to the plate.Dust a work surface with flour. Cut your pastry in half and roll one piece out into a circle that will fill the prepared plate, then use it to line the plate. Tip your chopped apples into the pastry-lined plate and sprinkle with the sugar and spice.Roll out the other half of the pastry, wetting the outside rim with a little water so the pastry top sticks to the bottom, and drape it over the filling, pressing the rim to seal. Cut around the plate to remove the overhanging dough and use these scraps to create a decoration. Brush the pie and decorations with the beaten egg and bake for 30 minutes. Make sure the pastry is golden brown before you remove it from the oven, otherwise the pastry on the bottom won't be cooked.Serve with the whipped cream.































RHUBARB & CUSTARD WITH SHERRIED ALMONDSAs a kid we didn't get desserts every day, only on Sundays. It was often stewed apple and custard, or Mammy's apple tart, but every now and again we would be treated to rhubarb and custard... and I would be giddy with delight. This is the closest you'll get to a rhubarb trifle without the hassle. It's delicious hot or cold.You'll know how you prefer your custard, so though the recipe below is how I want it
-
in thick dollops
-
adjusting the level of cornflour gives drastically different results (see below). Oh, and the juices from the rhubarb make a delicious cordial.SERVES 4FOR THE RHUBARB500g forced pink rhubarb200g caster sugar100g waterFOR THE CUSTARD200g whole milk600g double cream1 vanilla pod, halved lengthways and seeds scraped out100g caster sugar, or to taste3 eggs3 tablespoons cornflourTO SERVE4 tablespoons flaked almonds1-2 tablespoons icing sugarsplash of sherryPreheat the oven to 100°C fan: low and slow will protect the colour of the forced rhubarb. Trim your rhubarb into 2cm pieces and place in an ovenproof dish with the sugar and measured water. Cover with foil and cook for 20 minutes. It is ready when you can push the flesh and it gives way. Let the rhubarb rest in its juices while you make the custard.Put the milk, cream, scraped-out vanilla seeds and empty vanilla pod in a saucepan and bring slowly to the boil.Whisk the sugar, eggs and cornflour together in a heatproof bowl and slowly pour the boiled cream on top, while whisking to stop the eggs from scrambling. Strain back into the pan, set over a low heat and, stirring continually, bring to the boil. Taste for sweetness and add sugar if you like.Toast the almonds in a dry frying pan. When they start to turn brown, sift over the icing sugar and stir to caramelise, then splash in the sherry and stir until it evaporates. Tip on to a sheet of baking parchment and set aside to cool.Strain the juice from the rhubarb (reserve it, see below). Spoon the rhubarb into dishes with the custard and sherried almonds.Tricks of the TradeTo adjust the thickness of custard:• No cornflour at all gives a silky, pouring custard.• 1 tablespoon cornflour creates a thick pouring custard.• 2 tablespoons cornflour results in a thick custard.• 3 tablespoons cornflour makes a custard that sits in thick dollops, even when it's hot.















CHOCOLATE-BEETROOT MICROWAVE TRAYBAKEIf you ever get the urge for something sweet, but don't feel like preheating your oven and spending an hour making a cake, this recipe is great, as you can create it from start to finish in just ten minutes. If you are going to devour the cake while warm, I would say you could leave out the oil, though it is needed if you will be eating it the next day.'Mug cakes' have become wildly popular recently, but the sponges can seize up and become tough, mainly because of their depth. Cooking microwave cake in a shallow dish removes that risk.SERVES 4FOR THE SPONGE1 egg, lightly beaten25g (about 1½ tablespoons) vegetable oil1 tablespoon water1 tablespoon milk1 small raw beetroot, grated (though if you only have cooked beetroot it will still work, as long as it is not in vinegar!), about 100g total weight60g self-raising flour20g cocoa powder70g caster sugarTO SERVE100g double cream50g dark chocolate, about 56% cocoa solids, choppededible rose petals (optional)Mix all the wet ingredients for the sponge together in a bowl with the grated beetroot. In a separate bowl, mix all the dry ingredients together and create a well in the centre. Pour the liquids into the well and whisk until you have a smooth batter.Pour into a microwave-proof dish or a silicone mould, in which the batter will lie no more than about 2.5cm deep. Cook in a 650-watt microwave on medium heat for 3 minutes, then on high for 2 minutes. It may not look completely baked, but with microwave cookery you really need to bear the concept of residual heat cooking (see here) at the front of your mind. Let rest for 5 minutes, then place on a wire rack until completely cold. The cake will be very hot when it first comes out of the microwave, so be careful when handling it.Heat the cream up until boiling. Place the chopped chocolate in a heatproof bowl and pour over the hot cream. Let rest for 2 minutes, then stir very well until smooth.Serve the chocolate sauce with the cake and scatter with rose petals, if you like.















NO-CHURN ICE CREAM 'CUPCAKES'In the past, when people asked me how to make ice cream without an ice-cream churner, I used to reply point-blank that, 'No, no you can't, it won't work.' Well, I am eating my words now. Not only does this recipe work, but it's wonderfully smooth and luscious. By serving it in cupcake papers, you can create a selection of different flavours from the same batch, so everyone can get their favourite. Here I'm making stracciatella
(my favourite ice cream of all time), hokey pokey and strawberry-marshmallow flavours.MAKES 161 vanilla pod, split lengthways and seeds scraped out1 tablespoon caster sugar600g double cream397g can of condensed milk50g dark chocolate, melted4 strawberries, chopped60g mini marshmallows, or chopped regular marshmallows1 chocolate honeycomb bar, such as Crunchie, choppedPut the vanilla seeds and sugar in a small bowl and rub them through with your fingertips. This helps to separate the seeds, so they evenly flavour the ice cream.In a stand mixer, or with electric beaters, whip your double cream with the vanilla sugar to soft peaks. Fold the cream into the condensed milk.Place 16 cupcake papers in a cupcake or muffin tray and put a spoon of whipped cream and condensed milk in 4 of them. From a height, drizzle your melted chocolate over them, then add a second spoon of cream and drizzle with more chocolate: the thinner the layers and the more you add, the nicer this stracciatella will be.Divide the rest of the ice cream mix evenly between 2 bowls. Fold the strawberries and marshmallows into the first, then the chopped chocolate bar into the second. Spoon each of those mixes evenly between 4 cupcake papers.Place in the freezer for 2-3 hours, then serve.























About the authorAnna Haugh was born in Dublin in the 1980s. She has trained and worked as a professional chef for twenty years. After studying at DIT School of Culinary Arts and Food Technology - commonly known as Cathal Brugha Street - in Dublin, Anna began her career working at L'Ecrivain restaurant in the city with Derry Clarke. She then moved to London, where she worked with Shane Osborn at Pied à Terre, Philip Howard at The Square and for the Gordon Ramsay Group.In May 2019, she opened Myrtle Restaurant in Chelsea. The name was inspired by the Irish chef Myrtle Allen, founder of Ballymaloe House. Anna takes inspiration from old Irish recipes, culture and stories to create a modern Irish cuisine that still has the heartbeat of home. At Myrtle Restaurant there is a large focus on great Irish produce, music and art.Anna has worked on numerous television shows for the BBC. She is the resident chef on the breakfast show Morning Live, often appears as a chef and host on Saturday Kitchen and was a new Masterchef: The Professionals judge for 2022.This is her first book.







IndexAairing-cupboard vinaigrette here-herealmonds, rhubarb & custard with sherried hereanchovies: caper & anchovy dressing hereAnna's Wednesday night curry here-hereapplesapple-barley salad here-hereblack pudding parcels with Bramley apple dip & apple-barley salad here-hereMammy's apple tart on a plate hereasparagus: roasted asparagus with boiled eggs & fried chorizo hereAunty Ann's show-stopping carrot cake with carrot jam here-hereavocados: guacamole here-hereBbaconboeuf bourguignon herecoddle herepotato cakes with rashers & mushrooms herebaked bean can soda bread herebalsamic prawns with cherry tomatoes & creamy polenta herebanana skins: no-waste vegan pulled pork with slaw here-herebananas: spiced banana bread herebarley: apple-barley salad here-herebasilbraised ox cheeks with sweet potato & basil crush herebuttermilk panna cotta with lightly poached strawberries & ripped basil here-herebeansspiced three bean (& chickpea) ragù heresummer bean bowl herebeefboeuf bourguignon herechilli con carne here-hereMammy's shepherd's pie with forked spuds here-hererump steaks with charred sprouting broccoli & black garlic heresteak with speedy roast new potato salad hereTuesday night quick stir-fry herebeetroot: chocolate-beetroot microwave traybake herethe big celebration roast here-here timings chart here-herebiscuit cake, va-va-voom chocolate hereBlack Forest gateau here-hereblack pudding parcels with Bramley apple dip & apple-barley salad here-hereblenders here, hereboeuf bourguignon hereboning knife hereboxty pancake with ham hock & chive crème fraîche here-herebreadbaked bean can soda bread heregrilled rosemary flatbreads with roasted tomatoes & goat's cheese herepan-fried chicken livers with capers on toast hereroasted asparagus with boiled eggs & fried chorizo hereultimate cheese & ham double decker toastie hereunforgettable focaccia herebroccoli: rump steaks with charred sprouting broccoli & black garlic hereburgers, pea & Cheddar herebutter beansmustard-crusted salmon & butter bean salad herepea & Cheddar burgers herebuttermilkbaked bean can soda bread herethe big celebration roast herebuttermilk panna cotta with lightly poached strawberries & ripped basil here-herebutternut squashAnna's Wednesday night curry here-heremarinated monkfish, butternut squash & pumpkin seeds hereCcabbageroasted juniper-marinated duck & potato waffle here-hereslaw here-herecakesAunty Ann's show-stopping carrot cake with carrot jam here-hereBlack Forest gateau here-herechocolate-beetroot microwave traybake hereGuinness chocolate cake herespiced banana bread herecaperscaper & anchovy dressing herepan-fried chicken livers with capers on toast hereRich's 'WLC' couscous herecaramelised swede & honey soup herecaraway: chocolate & caraway mousse herecardamomlemon, lemongrass & cardamom posset herepink peppercorn & cardamom grissini here-herecarrotsAunty Ann's show-stopping carrot cake with carrot jam here-hereboeuf bourguignon herecarrot & cumin soup herecarrot jam here-herecarrot, pickled raisin & hazelnut salad here-herepimped-up carrots hererack of Irish lamb & double cauliflower here-hereRich's 'WLC' couscous hereTuesday night quick stir-fry herecauliflower, rack of Irish lamb & double here-herecheesecrispy chicken thighs with spinach purée, goat's cheese & quick pickled red onion heregrilled rosemary flatbreads with roasted tomatoes & goat's cheese hereorzo, fennel, orange & feta salad herepea & Cheddar burgers hereultimate cheese & ham double decker toastie heresee also ricotta cheesecherries: Black Forest gateau here-herechickenAnna's Wednesday night curry here-hereblack pudding parcels with Bramley apple dip & apple-barley salad here-herechicken & Baby Gem taco night here-herechicken fricassee with pesto & semi-dried tomatoes herechicken satay salad herecrispy chicken thighs with spinach purée, goat's cheese & quick pickled red onion hereHenry's chicken goujons hereRich's 'WLC' couscous hereseeded chicken nuggets herestuffed & roast chicken breast with potato rosti herechicken livers: pan-fried chicken livers with capers on toast herechickpeasMonday night salmon with chickpeas, peas & watercress herespiced three bean (& chickpea) ragù herechillieschilli con carne here-herespiced three bean (& chickpea) ragù herechips, spicy sweet potato herechives: boxty pancake with ham hock & chive crème fraîche here-herechocolateBlack Forest gateau here-herechocolate & caraway mousse herechocolate-beetroot microwave traybake heredouble chocolate & lime tart here-hereGuinness chocolate cake hereIrish buttered fudge with a secret ingredient hereva-va-voom chocolate biscuit cake herewhipped white chocolate dream herechopping boards herechorizo, roasted asparagus with boiled eggs & fried herecitrus sabayon herecoconut milkAnna's Wednesday night curry here-herechicken satay salad herecoconut cod curry herecodcoconut cod curry herefish goujons with mushy garden peas & spicy sweet potato chips hereroasted cod with white wine & mussel sauce here-herecoddle hereCointreau: citrus sabayon herecolours herecondensed milk: no-churn ice cream 'cupcakes' hereconsommé, gazpacho here-herecouscous, Rich's 'WLC' herecrackers, gazpacho salsa here-herecreamBlack Forest gateau here-herebuttermilk panna cotta with lightly poached strawberries & ripped basil here-herechocolate & caraway mousse hereGuinness chocolate cake herelemon, lemongrass & cardamom posset hereno-churn ice cream 'cupcakes' hererhubarb & custard herewhipped white chocolate dream herecream cheeseBramley apple dip here-heregazpacho salsa crackers here-heresalmon stuffed with horseradish, with cucumber-watercress salad heresmoked salmon crêpes herecrème fraîche, boxty pancake with ham hock & chive here-herecrêpes, smoked salmon herecucumbercucumber-watercress salad hereherby cucumber salad herecumincarrot & cumin soup herespiced three bean (& chickpea) ragù herecurryAnna's Wednesday night curry here-herecoconut cod curry herecustard: rhubarb & custard with sherried almonds hereDDad's fish pie from Howth here-heredill: smoked salmon crêpes heredipsBramley apple dip here-herered pepper mayo dip heredishes heredressingsairing-cupboard vinaigrette here-herecaper & anchovy dressing hereherby mayo here-heremy house vinaigrette hereduck: roasted juniper-marinated duck & potato waffle here-hereEeggschocolate & caraway mousse herecitrus sabayon hereroasted asparagus with boiled eggs & fried chorizo hereEliza's pasta hereFfennelorzo, fennel, orange & feta salad hereroasted juniper-marinated duck & potato waffle here-herefennel seeds: fennel sausage meatballs herefeta: orzo, fennel, orange & feta salad herefish here-herecoconut cod curry hereDad's fish pie from Howth here-herefish goujons with mushy garden peas & spicy sweet potato chips hereherb crusted tuna loin with caper & anchovy dressing heremarinated fish cakes here-heremarinated monkfish, butternut squash & pumpkin seeds hereMonday salmon with chickpeas, peas & watercress heremustard-crusted salmon & butter bean salad hereoat-crusted hake with smoked mackerel sauce hereroasted cod with white wine & mussel sauce here-heresalmon stuffed with horseradish, with cucumber-watercress salad heresea bream puttanesca heresmoked salmon crêpes heretemperature check herefish knife herefish slice hereflatbreads: grilled rosemary flatbreads with roasted tomatoes & goat's cheese herefocaccia, unforgettable herefricassee: chicken with pesto & semi-dried tomatoes herefritters, parsnip & oregano herefudge: Irish buttered fudge with a secret ingredient hereGgarlicchilli con carne here-hererump steaks with charred sprouting broccoli & black garlic heregateau, Black Forest here-heregazpacho consommé with gazpacho salsa crackers here-heregoat's cheesecrispy chicken thighs with spinach purée, goat's cheese & quick pickled red onion heregrilled rosemary flatbreads with roasted tomatoes & goat's cheese heregooseberry jam here-heregoujonsfish goujons with mushy garden peas & spicy sweet potato chips hereHenry's chicken goujons heregrapefruit: citrus sabayon heregraters here, heregravy, glorious heregrissini, pink peppercorn & cardamom here-hereguacamole here-hereGuinness chocolate cake hereHhaddock: Dad's fish pie from Howth here-herehake: oat-crusted hake with smoked mackerel sauce herehamboxty pancake with ham hock & chive crème fraîche here-hereultimate cheese & ham double decker toastie herehand blender hereharicot beans: spiced three bean (& chickpea) ragù herehazelnutscarrot, pickled raisin & hazelnut salad here-herenuttylicious loaf hereHenry's chicken goujons hereherbsherb crusted tuna loin with caper & anchovy dressing hereherby cucumber salad hereherby mayo here-heremussels with herb pesto herehoney: caramelised swede & honey soup herehorseradish: salmon stuffed with horseradish, with cucumber-watercress salad herehummus: summer bean bowl hereIice cream 'cupcakes', no-churn hereIrish buttered fudge with a secret ingredient hereIrish cooking hereJjamcarrot jam here-heregooseberry jam here-hereJerusalem artichoke vegan risotto herejug blender herejuniper: roasted juniper-marinated duck & potato waffle here-hereKkale: Tuesday night quick stir-fry herekidney beanschilli con carne here-herekidney bean meatballs with pomodoro sauce herespiced three bean (& chickpea) ragù herekirsch: Black Forest gateau here-hereknives here, herekoftas: lamb kofta with yogurt dressing & herby cucumber salad hereLlambkofta with yogurt dressing & herby cucumber salad hereMammy's shepherd's pie with forked spuds here-hererack of Irish lamb & double cauliflower here-herelemon, lemongrass & cardamom posset herelentilslentil ragù heremushroom & lentil shepherd's pie herenuttylicious loaf herelettucechicken & Baby Gem taco night here-herechicken satay salad herelimes: double chocolate & lime tart here-herelinguine: fennel sausage meatballs hereMmackerel: oat-crusted hake with smoked mackerel sauce hereMammy's apple tart on a plate hereMammy's shepherd's pie with forked spuds here-heremandolines heremarmalade, red onion heremayonnaisered pepper mayo dip heretarragon mayonnaise here-heremeat here-heretemperature check heresee also beef; lamb, etcmeatballsfennel sausage meatballs herekidney bean meatballs with pomodoro sauce heremicroplanes hereMonday night salmon with chickpeas, peas & watercress heremonkfish: marinated monkfish, butternut squash & pumpkin seeds heremortar and pestle heremousse, chocolate & caraway heremushroomslentil ragù heremushroom & lentil shepherd's pie herepotato cakes with rashers & mushrooms hereroasted juniper-marinated duck & potato waffle here-hererump steaks with charred sprouting broccoli & black garlic heremusselsDad's fish pie from Howth here-heremussels with herb pesto hereroasted cod with white wine & mussel sauce here-heremustard-crusted salmon & butter bean salad hereNno-churn ice cream 'cupcakes' hereno-waste vegan pulled pork with slaw here-herenuttylicious loaf hereOoatsnuttylicious loaf hereoat cakes hereoat-crusted hake with smoked mackerel sauce hereoffice knife hereolives: sea bream puttanesca hereonionsquick pickled onions herered onion marmalade hereorangescitrus sabayon hereorzo, fennel, orange & feta salad hereoregano: parsnip & oregano fritters hereorzo, fennel, orange & feta salad hereox cheeks: braised ox cheeks with sweet potato & basil crush herePpancakes: boxty pancake with ham hock & chive crème fraîche here-herepanna cotta: buttermilk panna cotta with lightly poached strawberries & ripped basil here-hereparsnipsDad's fish pie from Howth here-hereparsnip & oregano fritters hereparsnip & rosemary soup herepastaEliza's pasta herefennel sausage meatballs herekidney bean meatballs with pomodoro sauce herelentil ragù hereorzo, fennel, orange & feta salad herepasta Ferrari herepeanut butter: chicken satay salad herepearl barley: apple-barley salad here-herepeascoddle herefish goujons with mushy garden peas & spicy sweet potato chips hereMammy's shepherd's pie with forked spuds here-hereMonday night salmon with chickpeas, peas & watercress heremushroom & lentil shepherd's pie herepea & Cheddar burgers hereRich's 'WLC' couscous herepeelers herepeppercorns: pink peppercorn & cardamom grissini here-herepeppersEliza's pasta herered pepper mayo dip hereRich's 'WLC' couscous herepestochicken fricassee with pesto & semi-dried tomatoes heremussels with herb pesto herepickled onions herepie: Dad's fish pie from Howth here-herepink peppercorn & cardamom grissini here-hereplates herepolenta, balsamic prawns with cherry tomatoes & creamy herepomodoro sauce, kidney bean meatballs with hereporkchilli con carne here-hereMammy's shepherd's pie with forked spuds here-hererosemary pork chops with red onion & balsamic marmalade herepork, vegan: no-waste vegan pulled pork with slaw here-hereposset, lemon, lemongrass & cardamom herepotatoesboxty pancake with ham hock & chive crème fraîche here-herecoddle hereDad's fish pie from Howth here-hereMammy's shepherd's pie with forked spuds here-heremarinated fish cakes here-heremushroom & lentil shepherd's pie hereperfect roast potatoes herepotato cakes with rashers & mushrooms herepotato rosti herepotato salad hereroasted juniper-marinated duck & potato waffle here-heresteak with speedy roast new potato salad hereprawns: balsamic with cherry tomatoes & creamy polenta herepumpkin: nuttylicious loaf herepumpkin seeds: marinated monkfish, butternut squash & pumpkin seeds herepurple sprouting broccoli: rump steaks with charred sprouting broccoli & black garlic hereputtanesca, sea bream hereRragùlentil ragù herespiced three bean (& chickpea) ragù hereraisins, pickled here-herecarrot, pickled raisin & hazelnut salad here-herered kidney beanschilli con carne here-herekidney bean meatballs with pomodoro sauce herespiced three bean (& chickpea) ragù herered wineboeuf bourguignon herebraised ox cheeks with sweet potato & basil crush hererhubarb & custard with sherried almonds hererice: Jerusalem artichoke vegan risotto hereRich's 'WLC' couscous herericotta cheese: Eliza's pasta hererisotto, Jerusalem artichoke vegan hererosemaryflatbreads with roasted tomatoes & goat's cheese hereparsnip & rosemary soup herepork chops with red onion & balsamic marmalade hererosti, potato hererunner beans: spiced three bean (& chickpea) ragù hereSsabayon, citrus heresaladsapple-barley salad here-herecarrot, pickled raisin & hazelnut salad here-herechicken satay salad herecucumber-watercress salad hereherby cucumber salad heremustard-crusted salmon & butter bean salad hereorzo, fennel, orange & feta salad herepotato salad hereslaw here-heresprout slaw heresteak with speedy roast new potato salad heresalmonDad's fish pie from Howth here-heremarinated fish cakes here-hereMonday night salmon with chickpeas, peas & watercress heremustard-crusted salmon & butter bean salad heresalmon stuffed with horseradish, with cucumber-watercress salad heresmoked salmon crêpes heresalsa: gazpacho salsa crackers here-heresalsa rojo here-heresamosa pastry: black pudding parcels with Bramley apple dip & apple-barley salad here-heresatay sauce: chicken satay salad heresausagemeatstuffed & roast chicken breast with potato rosti herestuffing balls heresausagescoddle herefennel sausage meatballs herescones, the perfect fluffy here-heresea bream puttanesca hereseeded chicken nuggets hereshepherd's pieMammy's shepherd's pie with forked spuds here-heremushroom & lentil shepherd's pie heresherry: rhubarb & custard with sherried almonds heresieves hereslawsno-waste vegan pulled pork with slaw here-heresprout slaw heresmoked haddock: Dad's fish pie from Howth here-heresmoked mackerel: oat-crusted hake with smoked mackerel sauce heresmoked salmon crêpes heresoda bread, baked bean can heresoupscaramelised swede & honey soup herecarrot & cumin soup hereparsnip & rosemary soup heresourdoughpan-fried chicken livers with capers on toast hereroasted asparagus with boiled eggs & fried chorizo herespaghettilentil ragù herepasta Ferrari herespiced banana bread herespiced three bean (& chickpea) ragù herespinachcrispy chicken thighs with spinach purée, goat's cheese & quick pickled red onion heresummer bean bowl herespoons heresprout slaw heresprouting broccoli: rump steaks with charred sprouting broccoli & black garlic heresquash: marinated monkfish, butternut squash & pumpkin seeds heresteakrump steaks with charred sprouting broccoli & black garlic heresteak with speedy roast new potato salad hereTuesday night quick stir-fry herestir-fry, Tuesday night quick herestrawberries: buttermilk panna cotta with lightly poached strawberries here-herestuffing balls heresummer bean bowl heresunflower seeds: nuttylicious loaf hereswede: caramelised swede & honey soup heresweet potatoesbraised ox cheeks with sweet potato & basil crush heremushroom & lentil shepherd's pie herespicy sweet potato chips heresweetcorn: Rich's 'WLC' couscous heresweets here-hereTtaco night, chicken & Baby Gem here-heretarragon mayonnaise here-heretartsdouble chocolate & lime tart here-hereMammy's apple tart on a plate herethermometers heretoast, pan-fried chicken livers with capers on heretoastie, ultimate cheese & ham double decker heretomato knife heretomatoesAnna's Wednesday night curry here-herebalsamic prawns with cherry tomatoes & creamy polenta herechicken fricassee with pesto & semi-dried tomatoes herechilli con carne here-hereEliza's pasta herefennel sausage meatballs heregazpacho consommé here-heregazpacho salsa crackers here-heregrilled rosemary flatbreads with roasted tomatoes & goat's cheese herekidney bean meatballs with pomodoro sauce herelentil ragù heremushroom & lentil shepherd's pie herepasta Ferrari heresalsa rojo here-heresea bream puttanesca herespiced three bean (& chickpea) ragù heresummer bean bowl heretongs heretools here-heretraybake, chocolate-beetroot microwave hereTuesday night quick stir-fry heretuna: herb crusted tuna loin with caper & anchovy dressing hereturkey: the big celebration roast heretweezers hereUultimate cheese & ham double decker toastie hereunforgettable focaccia hereVva-va-voom chocolate biscuit cake herevacuum sealing machine herevegetables here-heresee also individual types of vegetablevinaigretteairing-cupboard vinaigrette here-heremy house vinaigrette heresee also dressingsWwaffle iron herewaffles, potato here-herewatercresscucumber-watercress salad hereMonday night salmon with chickpeas, peas & watercress herewhisks herewineboeuf bourguignon herebraised ox cheeks with sweet potato & basil crush hereroasted cod with white wine & mussel sauce here-hereYyogurtgrilled rosemary flatbreads with roasted tomatoes & goat's cheese heresmoked salmon crêpes hereyogurt dressing here







AcknowledgementsGo raibh mile maith agat.In Ireland we say 'thank you' in a wonderful way: it means 'may there be a thousand goodnesses by you'.The people who helped me make this book should be thanked first. Lucy, who had to help navigate my words - from my mouth and on paper - into something coherent and well written. It's Lucy's talent for the inner story that you're reading.Laura, my wonderful photographer that took my food and made it beautiful and added new levels to the feel of each dish.Rosie, ably assisted by El, Lucy and Maria, who worked on the recipes with me and helped me question what a recipe should look like. Tabs, who has the eye for beauty and balance, with the addition of colour or a textured napkin: her kindness radiates off her. Emily and Rowan from Bloombury, who believed I could create a great cookbook and helped me build a team to do that. Sabhbh, my literary agent, who helped me shape up the proposal to get publishers to turn the dream into a reality. Sandra, who took all of the above and wove each idea and concept together to create a flow that jumps off the page. This band of incredibly talented women worked with me to create this book. Now, being able to cook delicious food is one thing, but shaping that into a book that a home cook can follow is another. And not only follow, but fill with recipes that will inspire you to embark on something new. I couldn't have done this without them, I mean that from the bottom of my heart.And now I must thank the people in my life. My mother, my first head chef, who taught me how to make stocks and jams, roast potatoes and cook real food from scratch. My father, who really taught me to have a curiosity about food, flavour and ingredients from all over the world. They were my first guinea pigs as I started to experiment in the kitchen. My sisters Catherine and Sarah, such keen home cooks, who through my entire career have motivated me to cook real tasty food, not just cheffy stuff. They challenge me and impress me beyond belief, both through the questions they ask me about cooking and the food they serve me: always - and I mean always - delicious. My brother Anthony, who when his beautiful wife Michelle passed away asked me the most basic cooking questions, as he now was in the kitchen cooking for his wonderful children Joe, Katelyn and Laila. It was in these conversations with Anthony that I learned which tips and tricks people needed to be told, in order to cook better at home.My two best pals: Janice and Orla. These two are my cheerleaders. When I first moved to London, I was lonely. It was tough and I honestly could write a book just on that experience alone. I would go to a red phone box with a phone card on Sundays to call them; they would have been out partying the night before and we would all chat and laugh and I would often cry, out of pure gratitude for their friendship. They would tell me I was amazing and so brave and talented, even before I could properly chop an onion. You see, when the right people see your potential, you are unstoppable... but it was a long journey. Without them I'm not sure I'd have stuck it out.Rich - now an honorary cheerleader, too - has been my dinner date for a decade, often joined by my stepson Henry, and we have a new recruit to eat my food in the form of a beautiful bubbly blonde boy called Oisín. Rich is navigating this busy life with me, and, without him, I'm not sure I could do it. If he didn't have my back, I wouldn't have achieved what I have. He is a brilliant dad and does more than most dads, I think. And that needs to be shouted from the rooftops.I always say I was raised by three families: Mine, Janice's (my Uncle Tony and Aunty Marian), and Orla's parents Joe and Liz Dunne. Meal times in their house were all very different to mine, except for one core message. Their intention was just the same as that of my mammy and daddy: love, nourishment and sharing.I want to thank those great chefs whose kitchens taught me resourcefulness and how not to waste: even in peeling there is the opportunity for creativity! So thank you Shane Osborn, Derry Clarke, Philip Howard, Rob Weston, Gordon Ramsay, Gualtiero Marchesi and Caroline Hall.And finally, I'm so proud of my team at Myrtle: G-Bob, Ryanoooooo, Jimmy-Jam, Kennylicious, Jazzy Jeff and our manager, Dan. To see their excitement at this book coming together is something I didn't expect. Getting this book done involved a massive group effort from my kitchen. As I was prepping for the photo shoots, they were right behind me and never ever gave anything but encouragement. Thanks to Dan for always being a critical eye and a great ear to chew: you love food and recipes as much as I do. And Ash: thanks for all the coffee.







BLOOMSBURY PUBLISHINGBloomsbury Publishing Plc50 Bedford Square, London, WC1B 3DP, UK29 Earlsfort Terrace, Dublin 2, IrelandThis electronic edition published in 2024 by Bloomsbury Publishing PlcBLOOMSBURY, BLOOMSBURY PUBLISHING and the Diana logo are trademarks of Bloomsbury Publishing Plc.First published in Great Britain 2024Text © Anna Haugh, 2024Photographs © Laura Edwards, 2024Front cover and photograph© Bruna Duque Estrada, 2024Photograph © Rosie Ramsden, 2024Anna Haugh and Laura Edwards have asserted their right under the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act, 1988, to be identified as author and photographer, respectively, of this work.For legal purposes the Acknowledgements constitute an extension of this copyright page.All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, or any information storage or retrieval system, without prior permission in writing from the publishers.A catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library.ISBN: 978-1-5266-6721-2 (HB) ISBN: 978-1-5266-6719-9 (eBook) ISBN: 978-1-5266-6720-5 (ePDF)Project Editor: Lucy BannellDesigner: Sandra ZellmerCover Designer: David MannPhotographer: Laura EdwardsFood Stylist: Rosie RamsdenFood Styling Assistants: El Kemp, Lucy Turnbulland Maria GurevichProp Stylist: Tabitha HawkinsProofreader: Sally SomersIndexer: Vanessa BirdTo find out more about our authors and books, visit www.bloomsbury.com and sign up for our newsletters.



