




Caught in the Pulpit: Leaving Belief Behind
Daniel C. Dennett
and
Linda LaScola









Copyright © 2013 by Daniel C. Dennett and Linda LaScola
Photography by Bryce Vickmark / vickmark.com
All rights reserved,
including the right of reproduction
in whole or in part in any form
First Edition









TABLE of CONTENTS
Foreword by Richard Dawkins
I. Introduction
1. Preachers Who Aren't Believers
2. Some Cautions
3. What We Did and Why We Did it
4. Qualitative Research ("What Is It Like...?")
II. Five Sketches
5. Winnie, the Presbyterian Pastor: Wanting to Belong; Trying to Believe
6. Carl, the Lutheran Pastor: Persevering Through the Pain
7. Brian, the Lutheran Seminary Dropout: Dodging a Bullet
8. Glen, the Catholic Priest: Hiding Among Those Who Damned Him
9. Joe, the Mormon Bishop: A Hopeful Agnostic
III. Breaking the Shell—Transparency and the Survival of Religions:
IV. From the Ivory Tower to the People in the Pews
10. Three Seminary Professors
11. What Happens in Seminary: The Students' Perspective
12. After Seminary: Preaching and Teaching
13. Burnout and Depression
V. Emerging Themes
14. The Plight of Liberal Clergy: Metaphors, Myths, Truths, and Facts
15. The Plight of the Literals: Dealing with the Challenges
16. What Our Participants Gained and Lost As Their Beliefs Changed
VI. Where Are They Now? Checking in with Four Pilot Study Participants
VII. The Inner Shell—Isolating Pastors from Their Parishioners and from Themselves
Appendices
A. The Participants
B. About Qualitative Research
C. Linda's Personal Story
D. Dan's Personal Story
References and Resources
Acknowledgments









Foreword
What must it be like to be frightened of your own
opinions? If asked "What do you think about X" most of us enjoy the luxury of
reflecting: X, well yes, what do I think? What is the evidence bearing on X?
What are the good things about X, what are the bad? Maybe I should read up on X
before formulating my opinion. Maybe I should discuss X with friends. X is
interesting, I'd like to think about X.
Imagine being in a job which forbids any of that: a
profession to which you have vowed your life with solemn commitments; and where
the terms of the job are that you must hold certain rigid beliefs about the
world, the universe, morality and the human condition. You are allowed opinions
about football or chimney pots, but when it comes to the deep questions of
existence, origins, much of science, everything about ethics, you are told what
to think; or you have to parrot your thoughts from a book, written by unknown
authors in ancient deserts. If your reading, your thinking, your conversations,
lead you to change your opinions you can never divulge your secret. If you
breathe a hint of your doubts you will lose your job, your livelihood, the
respect of your community, your friends, perhaps even your family. At the same
time, the job demands the highest standards of moral rectitude, so the double
life you are leading torments you with a wasting sense of shameful hypocrisy.
Such is the predicament of those priests, rabbis and pastors who have lost
their faith but remain in post. They exist in surprisingly large numbers, and
they are the subjects of this fascinating, sometimes harrowing, sometimes
uplifting book.
Other jobs might make demands on your skills, but if you are
deficient you can do something about it. A lumberjack or a musician can improve
with practice: try harder. But lumberjacks and musicians are not required to
believe. You can't change your beliefs as an act of will, in the way you can
decide to improve your skills with chainsaw or keyboard. If the evidence before
your eyes doesn't support a belief, you cannot will yourself to believe it
anyway. This, incidentally, is one of the many arguments against Pascal's
Wager: no matter how you rate the odds of immortal salvation, you can't decide
to believe in God, as if it were a decision to bet on Red or Manchester United.
It is hard not to feel sympathy for those men and women
caught in the pulpit. It is for this reason that a group of us set up The Clergy
Project. I originally even thought of trying to raise money for scholarships -
retraining clergy as carpenters, say, or secular counsellors. That proved too
expensive. But we did provide apostate clergy with a website where they can
secretly go to talk to each other, in confidence, protected from parishioners
and even from family by pseudonyms and passwords: a safe haven where they can
share experiences, advice, even metaphorical shoulders to cry on. Dan Dennett
and Linda LaScola were involved in the Clergy Project from the start: indeed it
was largely inspired by their pilot study, together with the experiences of the
pioneer apostate Dan Barker. LaScola and Dennett's pilot study involved five
Protestant ministers. Four of them are founder members of the Clergy Project.
Subsequently the Clergy Project grew and grew, and it now numbers more than
500, including Catholics, Protestants, Jews, Muslims and Mormons. The sheer
numbers are heart-warming to those of us who see religion as unfavourable to
human welfare and positively hostile to educational values. But the figures
also imply a level of human misery on the part of the unfortunate clergy
themselves, and the gentle kindness of Dan Dennett and Linda LaScola shines
from every page of this book.
Their expanded study looks in detail at thirty individual
cases. Some of these men and women believed passionately for many years before
losing their faith. Others seem to have been already skeptical while still in
seminary, but went ahead with their priestly career for reasons that need to be
explored - and are. These are human beings, every one different, and the
victims are allowed the space to tell their own stories, woven together with
intelligent and insightful commentary by the two authors.
The book is a collaboration between a patient, sympathetic
social worker and one of the world's great philosophers. It will surprise as it
fascinates. If, as I hope and expect, the 500 apostates now in the Clergy
Project turn out to be the thin end of a very large wedge, tip of a
reassuringly large iceberg, harbingers of a coming and very welcome tipping
point, this book will be seen as - to mix metaphors yet again with pardonable
glee - the miner's canary. It will help us to understand what is happening as
the floodgates open, as I hope they soon will. I also hope it will be widely
read by still-believing clergy, and that it will give them the courage to join
their colleagues who have already seen the light and walked away from the dark
shade of the pulpit.
Richard DawkinsOxford, UKNovember 2013









I. Introduction
Daniel C. Dennett
1. Preachers Who Aren't Believers
This book is about men and women who entered the clergy with
the best of motives and intentions and have come to recognize that they no longer
hold the beliefs their parishioners think they do. Half of the people interviewed
still have a congregation awaiting them each Sabbath, trusting them to speak the
truth from the pulpit. They come from various backgrounds and have made different
decisions about how to deal with their lack of belief in what they think somebody
in their position ought to believe.
The present study, made in collaboration with the clinical social
worker and qualitative researcher Linda LaScola, is a continuation of our 2010 pilot
study of five male nonbelieving Protestant ministers.[1]
Our main objective: to explore, through in-depth interviews, the disconnect between
what closeted nonbelieving clergy believe and what they preach, and the impact it
has on their personal lives, their congregations, and society.
Most people who participated in the present study first learned
about it through the media attention the pilot study received. This time there were
thirty new participants, including women, Catholics, Jews, Mormons, a wider spectrum
of liberal (mainline) and literal (fundamentalist) Protestant denominations, a few
current or former theology students, and three mainline Protestant seminary professors.
We included the seminary professors to learn how their students react to academic
and historical perspectives on the Bible that may be quite different from what they
learned in Sunday school. These professors teach Old and New Testament studies to
beginning seminarians. Their personal religious beliefs were not known in advance
and were not explored in the interviews.[2]
To get a better sense of liberal clergy beliefs and thought processes, we included
two active, believing, Episcopal clergy. Follow-up interviews with four of the five
clergy from the pilot study are also included. As with the pilot study, the interviews
were done in confidence, with names and identifying details changed.
The interviews—all of which were conducted by Linda—varied in
number, length, and setting. Though most were conducted face-to-face, some
were done by Skype or phone. Only a few people were interviewed once; most were
interviewed two or three times over several days, in discussions lasting an hour
to an hour and a half. All active clergy were interviewed three times, allowing
Linda to follow up on important issues and giving the interviewees time to reflect
more deeply on their experiences and emotions. All in all, 90 interviews
were conducted in more than 120 hours of conversation. (For a complete list and
categorization of the participants, see Appendix A.)
We had planned to assemble a diverse group of participants; the
reality turned out to be more diverse than we guessed. People didn't fit into the
neat demographic boxes we had prepared for them. Some had changed denominations
during their careers, moving from literal to liberal (never the other direction)
before dropping their beliefs altogether. Some who were active clergy "came out"
unexpectedly a few weeks or months after they were interviewed, prompting follow-up
interviews. Two participating clergy were on leaves of absence when they were interviewed,
so their futures were up in the air.
An intervening event that surely affected some participants'
subsequent behavior was the establishment of The Clergy Project, in March of 2011.[3]
The Clergy Project, a confidential online community
for active and former professional clergy who do not hold supernatural beliefs,
is separate from our study—although both of us were among its founders and there
is considerable overlap of study participants (twenty-four) and project members.
It was the culmination of years of discussions between Richard Dawkins, founder
of the Richard Dawkins Foundation for Reason and Science, and Dan Barker, copresident
of the Freedom from Religion Foundation. Dawkins had long wanted to provide assistance
to nonbelieving clergy who wanted to leave the church. Barker, a former evangelical
minister, often encountered other former clergy who urged him to "do something"
for people who, like them, had made such a dramatic, life-altering decision. The
first fifty-two members of The Clergy Project came from lists of people Barker had
met over the years and people who had participated in our 2010 pilot study or contacted
us about it. It's important to note that while Linda and I are among the
cofounders, we are not members, because we have never been clergy. Like all nonmembers,
we have no access to the private Web site and take no part in the discussions there.
All current and former clergy and seminary graduates were
asked about their childhood religious experiences, their decision to become clergy
(or seminarians), their experiences in the seminary (if applicable), and
their changes in belief and its effect on them and the people around them. As the
interviews were ending, Linda asked two specific questions of the nonbelievers:
"What have you gained as a result of your changes in belief?" and "What have you
lost?" Their responses to these two questions comprise a section toward the end
of the book.
2. Some Cautions
What is it like to be a practicing pastor or rabbi while
not believing most—or any—of the doctrines of your faith? You may think you know
quite well if you have read some of the many good autobiographical books and articles
written by former clergy or nuns (e.g., in alphabetical order, the work of
Armstrong, Barker, Compere, DeWitt, Ehrman, Hurlin, . . .Johnson, Loftus, . .
. Semple, . . . Uhl, . . . .). Or perhaps you have read In the Beauty of the
Lilies, the heartbreaking novel by John Updike about the (fictional) Reverend
Clarence Wilmot, a Lutheran minister who after years of struggling with religious
doubt announces his disbelief and thereupon is plunged into a terrible downward
spiral, losing his job, his respectable position in the community, and even his
family's love.
Linda and I knew some of this literature quite well when we embarked
on our research project. But, as usual, reality outstrips imagination. We didn't
know the half of it.
There are very different ways of becoming a nonbelieving preacher,
and very different ways of coping with the discovery that that is what you are.
Our interviewees are not saints, anymore than you are, but they are in general good
people: more conscientious and honest, we would hazard, than the average citizen,
all trying hard to help their neighbors and not hurt a soul, trying not to lie or
dissemble, but caught up in a web of tact, tradition, and subtly imposed expectations—a
web trapping them in patterns of deceit that accumulate and threaten to immobilize
them. Some respond more gracefully—which does not necessarily mean more honestly—than
others. Some are bitter, feeling seduced and abandoned by their creed or angry at
themselves for allowing their eagerness to go along with the program to trump their
honesty. Some are wistful about what they will miss if ever they find a way out
of their predicament. What they will miss is in some cases the wholehearted community
spirit of their congregation; in others, the inflated respect and deference
their position commands; in yet others, the limelight in which they exercise their
considerable talents as preachers. These are people like the rest of us, succumbing
to some temptations and stalwartly resisting others, with often unrealistic hopes
and ambitions, sometimes self-deceived, sometimes depressed, sometimes aching with
love of what they fear they will lose forever. And, yes, sometimes terrified of
the financial calamity that will likely befall them if they lose their modest living.
None of these people went into the ministry for money, that's for sure. If many
of them now have a family to support, children to send to college, no equity in
a home, who can blame them for considering money an important part of their problem?
I must stress these points from the outset, for our informants
have already been subjected to ferocious criticism by religious leaders who
read the article on our pilot project in Evolutionary Psychology. I find
it a telling irony that out of the several dozen who posted commentary on the Washington
Post's On Faith Web site, where our piece first appeared,[4]
only Max Carter, a Quaker (whose tradition has no ordained clergy) and Rebecca Goldstein,
a Jewish atheist, saw the torment of these clergy for what it is. The others seem
to have forgotten Jesus' message about casting the first stone (John 8:7), responding
for all the world like stage magicians infuriated by another magician's revelation
of their trade secrets.
They were right to feel threatened. One of the moral quandaries
Linda and I have faced in preparing this account is whether our revelations about
the methods used by our informants to conceal their disbelief from their congregations
will make the job of being a pastor much harder for all, believers and nonbelievers
alike. We concluded that the membrane of deceit so often separating clergy from
their congregations is on its way out in any event, and if we can hasten its extinction
that's a good thing, even if in the short run it makes life more difficult for those
intent on maintaining their positions with a careful self-presentation. They
will just have to be more careful.
Stage magic has handsomely survived the rude subversion of Penn
and Teller, whose amusing exposure of magicians' tricks has earned them accolades
even from their fellow magicians, and it is quite likely, in our view, that after
the initial shock wears off, churches that can put the stage magic behind them—or
keep it on as explicit stagecraft, if they like—are likely to be healthier competitors
in the Information Age of the 21st century.
Some are already there, such as the ceremonially "high" ("smells
and bells ") but doctrinally "low" (believe whatever you want) Episcopal churches
that hold their own in some parts of the country. Other, more "creedal" denominations
have a harder road ahead, as their leaders well know. Evangelicals repeatedly warn
that "if current trends continue, only 4 percent of teenagers will be 'Bible-believing
Christians' as adults."[5]
In 2009, one "postevangelical" spokesman declared, "We are on the verge—within 10
years—of a major collapse of evangelical Christianity,"[6]
a prediction echoed and expanded more recently.[7]
Our decision to include the tricks of the trade in our account
was not taken lightly. We realize that doing so may cause serious harm, making some
benign effects of current religious practices harder to achieve. This is not the
first time I have faced this issue. Many years ago, when I was researching the practice
of anesthesia for an essay on pain[8],
I learned of the widespread use of amnestics by anesthesiologists. These drugs aren't
painkillers at all; they are memory erasers, and anesthesiologists use them to wipe
out any awful memories of pain that may have leaked onto the scene in insufficiently
anesthetized patients. The use of amnestics makes their job easier and safer, since
they don't have to anesthetize their patients as deeply (which is dangerous) to
ensure an untroubled postsurgical result. But telling patients in advance that they
might be receiving an amnestic only makes them more anxious and hence harder to
tranquilize and anesthetize. (Now are you sorry you began reading this? There is
more to come, so caveat lector!) I was importuned by several of my
anesthesiologist informants not to reveal this awkward fact about benign subterfuge
to the world at large, but I didn't take their advice, and now, forty years later,
anesthesia is safer than ever. Perhaps this just goes to show how few people
read my essay on pain, but in fact I have found that people who know all about amnestics
are blithely unconcerned both pre- and postsurgically—certainly it hasn't bothered
me in my surgical encounters. I suspect that anesthesiologists and church leaders
alike are more fearful of candor than they need to be, and we will show you some
evidence of that in due course.
Another worry of mine is that readers of this book may inadvertently
render themselves immune to certain sorts of helpful intervention. When I was an
undergraduate, I had a classmate, whom I will call Rob, who was both depressed (or
had some other mental disorder) and obsessed with the literature of psychotherapy—especially
the techniques. The obsession made him all but untreatable by the college psychotherapist.
Rob would return from his weekly visit both morose and strangely triumphant: "He
started by chatting me up about my coursework, and I responded with 'Gain your patient's
confidence by engaging with him about a subject he knows well,' Jones and Smidlap,
How to Treat an Undergraduate, p. 5,'" or words to that effect. He was just
too self-conscious and savvy to let the therapist gain a foothold. I'm happy to
say he survived his youthful funk and has had a productive research career as a
psychologist. Will churchgoers who could use some spiritual counseling be similarly
immunized and unable to respond to the best efforts of their pastors? Perhaps, but
if that is the price to pay for saving some young aspirants to the clergy from falling
into the traps our informants landed in, it will be worth it, in our view.
3. What We Did and Why We Did It:
When I called for the scientific study of religion in Breaking
the Spell: Religion as a Natural Phenomenon,[9]
I drew attention to many of the obstacles to such study but urged readers to press
ahead because of the importance of the phenomena and the urgency of learning more
about them in an age when so many policies hinge in one way or another on getting
religion right. I was soon approached by Linda, a professional qualitative researcher,
who proposed to help me study closeted nonbelieving clergy—if we could find some.
It turns out that we could, and the reaction to our pilot study encouraged us to
expand our research and made it possible by inducing many other clergy to volunteer
as confidential informants.
My collaboration with Linda has been my attempt to follow my
own advice. Are the results "scientific"? Yes, in the important sense that we pursued
our work with careful attention to the established methodological principles of
research with human subjects, which always raises special problems. Chemists, geologists,
and botanists can conduct their research without having to tiptoe around or whisper
in the presence of their phenomena. They may even talk to the trees—or the rocks
or the molecules—without worrying that in doing so they will subvert the objectivity
of their experiments by provoking uncontrolled reactions in their materials. Research
on animals needs more attention to these possible confounds, since animals are perceivers
and perception is a gatherer and amplifier of environmental effects that are hard
to keep track of. In the field, if you can't avoid detection altogether, you strive
to avoid doing things that might perturb the normal behavior of your subjects, and
if you absolutely must catch, tag, and release your study animals, you attempt to
minimize both the trauma and the chances of creating dependencies between experimenter
and subjects. (If they need it, nurse them back to vigor before releasing them,
but don't provision them and don't warn them of approaching predators, for instance.)
Moreover, there are standards of ethical treatment of animals that must be scrupulously
followed.
Research on human subjects raises the bar much higher and introduces
the need for special restrictions on experimenters, as well as care both in the
choice of subjects (avoiding self-selection and other biases) and in how subjects
are briefed and debriefed (if they're not simply observed "in the wild"). Institutional
review boards must approve all research involving human subjects in advance, and
issues of privacy and risk must be carefully assessed. With all these difficulties,
it is still possible to do objective, controlled research on human subjects—even
research on that most private phenomenon, human consciousness. What is it like to
be a human being confronted with various stimuli, challenges, experiences, problems?
We have a wealth of partial answers derived from more than a century of empirical
research.
But consider the question What is it like to be a religious
believer? Or nonbeliever? This is a perfectly reasonable and important question
to ask, but if we want anything like a scientific answer, an answer that
has some credentials beyond the respondent's reputation, we have to confront still
greater obstacles to our inquiry. To see this, let's review the standard provisions
for experiments designed to investigate human consciousness. This is the methodology
I have called heterophenomenology[10]
(the study of other people's phenomenology, or conscious experience). It requires
the experimenter to communicate with the subjects, briefing them about what they
will be asked and then getting them to express their beliefs about what is going
on in their minds under the various conditions (which they often do by pushing buttons
or moving joysticks, but these are still communicative acts, intentional and meaning-laden).
The only way of ensuring—and one can never ensure this 100 percent—that
your subjects will be truthful or sincere is to keep them in the dark (they must
be what the field calls "naïve subjects") about the point of the experiment. Thus
they can't frame a desire, even unconsciously, to help or hinder the experimenter,
and they will have no motivation to express anything but their candid, unvarnished
opinion about what is happening in their consciousness.
Evaluation of many such experimental situations has also shown
that experimenters often can't help biasing their interactions with their subjects
or letting wishful thinking bias their interpretation of their data, so best practices
involve a double-blind design, in which the person who interacts directly with the
subjects also is as naïve as possible about the point of the particular experiment
being conducted, and the person who categorizes the data is shielded from knowledge
of which subjects had which preparation. (The same policy is followed in drug evaluation
testing, where neither the administrator of the drug-or-placebo nor the subsequent
evaluator of the effects on patients knows which patients are getting the drug and
which the placebo, until all the interactions and evaluations are completed.)
Now ask how these well-supported rules for designing experiments
interact with an attempt to probe human attitudes toward religion or to understand
what it is like to believe in one God or another. There simply are no naïve subjects
and cannot be any naïve subjects! Moreover, quite aside from any desire on the part
of subjects to help or hinder the experimenter, there are a host of motivations
to be less than candid, less than fully open, in responding to inquiries. Indeed,
in some religions, such as Roman Catholicism, there is a sacred obligation always
to profess the orthodox creed. Cardinal Ratzinger, before he became Pope Benedict
XVI, composed a Declaration entitled "Dominus Iesus: On the Unicity and Salvific
Universality of Jesus Christ and the Church," which was ratified by Pope John Paul
II at a Plenary Session on June 16, 2000. Again and again, this document specifies
what faithful Catholics must "firmly believe" (italics in the original),
noting at one point what "the Catholic faithful are required to profess"—that
the Roman Catholic Church is the one true church (italics in the original). Cardinal
Ratzinger cites Paul's first letter to the Corinthians: "Preaching the Gospel is
not a reason for me to boast; it is a necessity laid on me: woe to me if I do not
preach the Gospel!" (1 Cor. 9:16). But this means that researchers have grounds
for doubting sincerity whenever a Catholic claims to believe an article of Catholic
doctrine.
Religious belief is a unique psychological phenomenon—not just
hard to study objectively but often systematically elusive by design. For
instance, we cannot know if Benedict XVI, now the pope emeritus, believes in the
Trinity, because by his own avowal he would tell us he did even if he didn't, and
there is nothing he could do to support his words with deeds. The best we can do
is adopt the anthropologists' method of respectful but persistent inquiry and observation
and make of it what we can. This can't take us far; religious beliefs, unlike beliefs
about mundane matters (whether the horse in the corral is dangerous, whether these
berries are good to eat, whether there are fish in the river), have no clear nonverbal
manifestations in action.
When it comes to interpreting the religious avowals of others,
everybody is an outsider. Why? Because religious avowals concern matters that are
beyond observation, beyond meaningful test, so the only thing anybody can go on
is religious behavior and, more specifically, the behavior of professing. A child
growing up in a culture is like an anthropologist, surrounded by informants whose
professings stand in need of interpretation. The fact that your informants are your
parents and speak in your mother tongue does not give you anything more than a slight
circumstantial advantage over the adult anthropologist, who has to rely on a string
of bilingual interpreters to query the informants. (And think about your own case:
Weren't you ever baffled or confused about what you were supposed to believe?) You
may well be an insider, but you know perfectly well that you don't have any special
insider's knowledge of the tenets of the faith you were raised in.[11]
The present study therefore did not adopt a strict double-blind
experimental procedure, but we did what we could to neutralize our bias as experimenters.
For instance, Linda didn't send interpretations of her interviews until I
had read the transcripts and written up my notes, which I didn't share with her
until she had finished drawing her own conclusions—though I sometimes sent her questions
that needed answering. In interviewing, she made it clear that she was a researcher,
not a therapist, and scrupulously refrained from offering advice or diagnosis,
even when the subjects would clearly have welcomed it. In many cases, Linda
was the first person with whom they had discussed these issues in such depth. They
had not talked at length about their failed belief with their spouses, children,
colleagues, close friends, or—needless to say—their church superiors. Their lives
were, in this respect, supremely lonely, and their gratitude to Linda, a sympathetic
interlocutor who helped them think things through in deepest confidence, was
moving. Free at last, free at last—if only in their thoughts.
Quite independently of any official discouragement of candor
by one's church, there are obviously many motivations to be less than truthful in
responding to researchers on these topics, so the best we could do, ethically, was
provide a setting that minimized these motivations. The mantle of strict confidentiality
often encourages people to tell a researcher things they have never told anybody
before, even their spouses and closest friends. For instance, would anybody confess
to rape or murder to a researcher? Yes, in fact. University of Pennsylvania psychologist
Adrian Raine conducted a strictly confidential experiment involving twenty-one "successful
psychopaths"—people without criminal records, identified by their "passing" the
standard test used to diagnose psychopathy in populations of convicts, an identification
strengthened by brain scans revealing the telltale prefrontal-lobe deficiency in
gray matter and other well-established markers of psychopathy. The interviewees
were reassured by the certificate of confidentiality Raine secured for the experiment
(a standard provision in research into topics where subjects could be at risk if
their identity was revealed), and they readily provided detailed accounts of the
crimes they had committed, including armed robbery, rape, and murder. Raine
thinks there is scant chance that they were making any of it up, and he has
perhaps more experience than any other researcher in talking with violent criminals.
"Perhaps for the first time in their lives they could talk about their wrongdoings
at length with a professional in full confidence and without risk—even getting into
the nitty-gritty of rape and homicide."[12]
Linda found her subjects just as willing, even relieved and grateful, to find somebody
with whom they could discuss the ideas that had been roiling their brains for years,
unexpressed and unconfided. Nobody, I daresay, has ever before confidentially
interviewed so many practicing clergy about their loss of faith. There are inexpressibly
sad moments, joyful moments, and moments when Linda uncovers self-deception that
leaves an interviewee exposed—but not attacked.
Imagine what a momentous step it is to volunteer for these interviews.
You have been conditioned not to unburden your soul, not to indulge in avowals with
your parishioners or anyone else, and you have become adept at deflecting even your
own attention from topics you know you can't handle. To let down your defenses and
explain the inexplicable, admit the inadmissible, and acknowledge your own complicity
takes courage. Their belief that by doing so, they would be helping others deal
with their own entanglements with faith is a belief we intend to honor by
helping some of them tell their stories, without distortion, without special pleading.
Our primary goal, however, has not been to help our informants
but to learn from them. They are, both officially and in actual fact, research subjects
in a project administered by Tufts University and hence approved by Tufts' IRB (Institutional
Review Board, the human-subjects committee). As researchers, we are professionally
obliged to respect their autonomy, preserve their dignity, minimize their exposure
to risk, and do whatever we can to ensure that our research is properly conducted
so that their cooperation yields valuable results.
A word on terminology: Oversimplifying somewhat, we use
the term "literal" to refer to Judeo-Christian denominations that profess Scripture
to be the inerrant word of God, a source of unvarnished truth on all matters. Literals
profess belief in a personal God who created the world in six days and intervenes
in the world, answering prayers and arranging for miracles. Jesus was literally
the son of God and was literally resurrected. The term "liberal" refers to those
who temper these claims with varying amounts of metaphor, holding that their function
is symbolic or poetic. God is not a bearded guy in the sky—and maybe not even a
person, and maybe not even a "being" at all, but something beyond our meager human
comprehension. Pentecostals, Mormons, and Seventh-day Adventists are prototypical
literals, and Unitarians and (most) Episcopalians are prototypical liberals. The
literal/liberal opposition is best seen as a spectrum, with all manner of intermediate
positions on specific issues, even within denominations; thus some Roman Catholics
are adamantly literal about Transubstantiation and some are more liberal.
Agnostics are those who profess not to know—and deny that anybody
can know—the truth about God's existence, or the divinity of Jesus, or the
existence of miracles, and so forth. One of our participants, the Humanist rabbi, Jacob, introduced us to a term worth knowing
and using: "ignostic." It was coined in the 1960s by the late Rabbi Sherwin Wine,
a founding figure of Humanistic Judaism. He used it to refer to those who declare
the question of the existence of God meaningless, in the absence of an agreed-upon
definition of God, or (more brusquely) to those who just ignore religious
doctrine, finding the issues not worth thinking about. Around the globe there are
probably more ignostics than any other category, something we tend to forget.
4. Qualitative Research ("What Is It Like. . . ?")
Although it was not part of our study's explicit design, Linda,
as a qualitative researcher (see Appendix B), occasionally asks, "What was it like
for you?" The answers are, typically, informative not only in what they assert
but also in the way they assert it. Consider, for instance, Sherm, an Orthodox rabbi
in his thirties:
Linda: Was there a time during this process that you stopped
praying, or your prayers changed, or what?
Sherm: You can't stop praying, because, I think,
it would become noticeable.
Linda: But what was it like for you?, is what I'm—
Sherm: Oh. Yes. Certainly in my head I've stopped praying.
It's just words to me. And I spend a lot of the time actually— I have other books
open in front of me, other books of learning, and I study those. Those are, you
know, Jewish things.
Linda: When you're supposed to be praying?
Sherm: Yeah. Nobody would really notice, because a lot
of people do that. People learn while they're praying, they'll pray a little bit,
a little quicker than everybody else, and while they're waiting, they'll read a
line here, a line there.
Linda: From another book?
Sherm: From another book.
Linda: Like, a popular novel?
Sherm: Oh no, no, no (chuckle). I actually, for the first
time, saw somebody bring a popular novel to synagogue. But normally, no. It's a
book of the Talmud, or the book of Mishnah, or even the Bible.
Here is Dave, a Baptist missionary in Asia, talking about
his experiences teaching Bible stories to someone he hoped to convert.
Dave: And to sit there and explain to them about someone
who died on a cross, then rose again; a donkey that spoke; and a snake that
spoke in the Garden of Eden? Even back then, it's almost like, "Come on, do I really
believe this?" But then I think, "Well, God can do anything," and then you teach
it. Just not having to defend all that crazy stuff is a great blessing [laughs].
Linda: What was it like, saying those things to people?
Dave: Well, a part of you says it can't be true, but then
God can do anything. God says it happened, so you talk yourself into believing that
it really happened. I'll never forget, I was in my home church a few years ago and
the pastor talked about, I think it was out of Judges, chapter 15, in relation to
Samson. And something happened to Samson, where the Philistines wouldn't allow him
to see his wife, so he went and caught three hundred foxes and he tied their tails
together and he put a firebrand between their tails and sent them off to the cornfields,
to burn up the cornfields. And I remember a woman . . . saying, "That's kind of
hard to believe—that he rounded up three hundred foxes and sent them to burn up
a cornfield." And I said, "Yeah, but with God's help, he could do it all." And she
said, "Yeah, I think you're right." That was one of my first moments of "Wow, this
is just a fairy tale!"
And here is Tony, a former Catholic priest, describing how
he dealt with being gay.
Linda: How were you thinking about sexuality? I know priests
aren't supposed to have sex with anybody, but already knowing you're gay—what was
it like?
Tony: Yeah. I thought—there are a few different things
I thought. Because I compartmentalized. I always knew that I'd been sexually abused;
this all related into it. It's like there was this other me, or little me, that
it happened to, but I was this super guy, straight-A, president of the class, perfect
Catholic, perfect whatever, blah, blah, blah. So when I went into this whole priesthood
thing, this celibacy thing, it was very easy to say to myself, "Yeah, I'm all integrated
sexually. And all this counseling, all this growth that I have, and I accept all
myself and everything, and blah, blah, blah." But then there was this whole other
side of me—that I was just putting it all in the little closet inside of me, and
there was a part of me that was thinking, "Yeah, I'll get ordained, and then it
will all make sense." I really wanted to understand how celibacy worked. And especially.
. . the last two years of college and the first years of seminary when I was with
these priests that were hitting on me and using me for sex. It was confusing, because
I had feelings of love and respect for them, and it was very difficult.
Linda and I don't just acknowledge the limitations of our
methodology revealed by these observations; we wish to highlight them and stress
that there is no feasible alternative if you want to study the experience of clergy
who have to conceal their convictions. The best we can do is trust our abilities
to engage honestly with our subjects and to detect the everyday signs of dishonesty
as they might imaginably arise in these extraordinary circumstances. We're sure
there are no impostors among our informants; relying on the well-known if far from
exceptionless principle that admissions made contrary to interest are apt to be
sincere, we judge our informants to be, in large measure, truthful. There are, of
course, the occasional red flags of narcissistic recollection, of exaggerated self-pity
or self-dramatization, a few tell-tale flashes of score-settling and gamesmanship,
but repetition of pattern works wonders, and we eventually learned to recognize
these moves.
Another limitation of our study is that our sample is self-selected
and, as in all qualitative research, the farthest thing from a random sample. So
no generalizations about clergy, or disbelieving clergy, or Baptist clergy, or liberal
congregations is supported by our findings. One cannot learn all about what it's
like to run a marathon by interviewing only those who drop out—but one can learn
something. Like failure analysis in engineering, one can learn from a few mishaps
what to look out for and where the weaknesses may lie. One can learn about the difficulties
these individuals face and see patterns in them. One can learn about features encountered
by all, or almost all, our informants in widely different religious environments
and have some grounds for suspecting that these features are ubiquitous.
There is one question everybody is curious about that we are
utterly powerless to answer: How widespread is the phenomenon we have been studying?
At one extreme, is our sample close to exhaustive—are there only a few dozen such
"bad apples" in a trainload of preachers? At the other extreme, have we uncovered
a nearly universal affliction of clergy everywhere, with devout and sincere believers
being the "rare birds" who survive today only in isolated pockets? Or is it much
more likely that the truth lies somewhere in between? Nobody knows. Seriously, nobody
knows. Our informants are generally sure they are the tip of the iceberg, but they
have no way of testing that conviction. In all the commentary we have provoked
from experts on religion or spokespeople for religion, nobody—as far as I know—has
accused us of making things up or turning a molehill into a mountain. We can say
that there are at least a hundred instances, since among the more than five hundred
current members of The Clergy Project there are over a hundred who still have a
pulpit, still have a congregation. (The rest are all former clergy.) Since
that private, confidential Web-based organization for nonbelieving clergy has grown
to those numbers in two and a half years, without advertising or canvassing, we
can safely surmise that there are many more clergy out there who are in the same
boat but haven't heard about The Clergy Project, or for various reasons would not
want to join. Perhaps a nationwide confidential survey of clergy could give us a
ballpark number, but the logistics of doing such a survey in a way that maximizes
security and anonymity while screening out spurious responses is daunting indeed.
The purpose of qualitative research is to develop insight—in-depth
understanding of attitudes and behavior in order to provide direction for further
research. Because of the small number of people interviewed and the nonrandom method
of recruitment, our findings cannot be evaluated quantitatively. It is important
to remember this standard limitation of qualitative research while reading the sections
to come. They are the truth about the people they are about, and not about anything
else. They are anecdotal evidence, not statistical evidence. Make of them what you
can.




[1]
"Preachers Who Are Not Believers," Evolutionary Psychology, 8:1, 122-50
(2010).
http://www.epjournal.net/wp-content/uploads/EP08122150.pdf 


[2]
Finding seminary professors willing to participate was more difficult than
finding nonbelieving clergy; out of twenty-six professors we contacted, only
three volunteered.


[3]
http://www.clergyproject.org/


[4]
http://newsweek.washingtonpost.com/onfaith/Non-Believing-Clergy.pdf


[5]
Laurie Goodstein, "Evangelicals Fear the Loss of Their Teenagers," New
York Times, Oct. 6, 2006.


[6]
Michael Spencer, "The Coming Evangelical Collapse," Christian Science
Monitor, March 10, 2009.


[7]
John S. Dickerson, The Great Evangelical Recession: 6 Factors That Will
Crash the American Church. . .and How to Prepare (Grand Rapids, MI: Baker
Books, 2013).


[8]
"Why You Can't Make a Computer That Feels Pain," reprinted in Daniel C.
Dennett, Brainstorms: Philosophical Essays on Mind and Psychology (Pepperell,
MA: Branch Line Press, 1979).


[9]
(New York: Penguin, 2006).


[10]
Dennett, Consciousness Explained (Boston, MA: Little, Brown, 1991); Intuition
Pumps and Other Tools for Thinking, (New York: W. W. Norton, 2013).


[11]
The previous two paragraphs are drawn with revision from Breaking the Spell.



[12]
Adrian Raine, The Anatomy of Violence: The Biological Roots of Crime (New York:
Pantheon, 2013), p. 122.










II. Five Sketches
Linda LaScola
5. Winnie, the Presbyterian Pastor: Wanting to Belong; Trying to Believe
Winnie was a Presbyterian minister for over ten years. She
served two parishes, one as an assistant pastor and one as the senior and sole pastor.
She is now a psychologist living with her wife in a major Midwestern metropolitan
area. The Presbyterian Church was a central part of her life as a child.
I grew up participating in every part of the Church, starting
with day care and Sunday nursery school and then going on to Sunday school.
She especially liked the church her family attended when she
was in her early teens:
They had a guitar group, and they had an informal folk service.
I was smitten; I wanted to be there all the time. My family sometimes wanted to
go traveling on the weekends, and I'd say, "No, I want to stay home and go to church!".
. . . I joined the adult choir there. I became very good friends with a couple that
sang in the choir.
Her doubts about religion did not keep her from being active
in the Church:
I always had doubts—doubts about believing any of it. Does God
really even exist? I remember walking our dog in the park at the top of our street
that looked down on the water, and the wind and the sun, and I thought, "I don't
worship God, I worship the sun." I love the sun, it's wonderful. Then I thought
I may as well believe and join the Church, because millions and millions of people
have been joining the Church for many years, and they can't all be wrong.
As a thirteen- or fourteen-year-old, I would also go to adult-education
classes, and I loved those. I just loved being accepted as an adult when I was a
teenager—I thought it was cool.
It was then that she had the first sense of her sexual preference.
I kind of thought all women got married but your best friends
and who you got close to were other women. And you'd have your deep, emotional,
intense intimacy relationships with them.
I'm a lesbian, I realize now, but at the time I didn't. But
I basically fell in love with this female pastor. I basically stalked her a lot
of that time. So it was kind of a lot of awakening going on for me that year.
She also became aware then that women could become ministers.
I didn't know women could do anything in the Church; I hadn't
seen that before. So to see the female minister in her red robe and white stole
just was totally enlightening. They used inclusive language—we'd cross out the words
in the hymn book. Instead of "man," we'd use "human" or whatever. So all of that
was just like this enormous awakening to me.
At one point when we were having one of our many, many long,
intense talks, the pastor told me she thought I was called to the ministry. And
I was kind of stunned and didn't want to say anything. I had thought that to myself,
but I hadn't said anything to anyone. And to have her confirm that perception of
me—that it might be something I could do well—just floored me.
Years later, she told her parents about her interests.
They basically said, "Well, you know, you'll never get married.
You'll never have children. You won't be paid very much. You won't be respected,
because women aren't respected much in the Church. .. . Do you really want to do
this?" Then they go, "OK, if that's what you want to do, go ahead."
She looked to the Bible to support her decision.
There are lots of passages in the Bible that say, "Leave your
family and turn to God. Don't look back. This is the family of God; this is better
for you."
I'm called to do this. This is very important, even if they
don't see it yet. God calls, God means it.
She spent a year in Israel before starting seminary.
That was the year of really losing my faith. It's not just a desert,
it's a spiritual desert. If you haven't been to Israel, it's a piece of desert that's
rocky, dusty, hot, ugly, and it's the center of three monotheistic religions that
fight with each other constantly. And it's in the middle of the trade routes. So
it's an area that doesn't have any real reason to exist, except for those religions
and because all the trade routes between Europe and Asia and Africa branch through
there.
She was exposed there to many other kinds of religions.
I took a tour of Sinai in October, and everybody and their uncle
was climbing Mount Sinai. There's a church or a mosque or a grotto or shrine or
something on every hill, nook, cranny, and cave. And most of the religious tombs
and all the rest I found repulsive.
I'm Presbyterian. I'm not Orthodox, I'm not Roman Catholic.
I don't get into incense and smells and bells and icons. And that stuff is all over.
You get Coptics and Russian Orthodox. You get dozens and dozens of types of Christianity
that are nothing like Protestants.
After her experience in Israel, she questioned her commitment
to the ministry.
Well, I came back and I was really troubled, because I really
wasn't sure I was Christian, and I really wasn't sure what to do.
My ministers, when I was growing up, weren't hammering beliefs
into us, but I knew I was supposed to believe that Jesus Christ was my Lord and
Savior—I wasn't quite sure what that meant. And I don't see how you can have one
God but three Gods—Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. And what are the End Times? I was
hoping nobody would ever really ask me, because I really didn't know what to say.
While at a Presbyterian camp, she listened to the hymn "Be
Not Afraid," with the lyrics "You shall cross
the barren desert, but you shall not die of thirst. / You shall wander far in safety
though you do not know the way."[1] She
also encountered Mary Stevenson's poem "Footprints in the Sand," which concludes
with "the Lord" saying, "The times when you have seen only one set of footprints,
is when I carried you."
I was very touched by those kinds of things. And I was kind of
like, "Oh, I can do this."
Winnie went on to a prestigious interdenominational
divinity school whose students came from various belief systems and levels of religious
education.
A lot of people take Old Testament first year, and the Old Testament
lectures would throw students into the emotional, spiritual trauma that I went through
in Israel. There are four sources in Genesis, and you know if there are all these
different writers, then it's not all from God. And it's been translated, and it's
been orally transmitted forever, and we don't really know what these words or those
words mean today. . . . There's a phrase in the Song of Solomon that says, "Her
hair was like a flock of goats on a hillside." And I thought, "Yuck!" until I was
in Israel and I saw a flock of goats on a hillside, and they ripple. It's gorgeous!
I realized there's so much we don't understand because we're in such a different
culture and time.
To me, it was fun. It was like a puzzle—I wanted to know this
stuff. This was exciting. It didn't throw me at all. My parents had talked about
this kind of stuff all the time, my church had talked about it, the adult group
had talked about it. So I'd been exposed to a lot of that stuff. I didn't have the
same reaction that a lot of my friends did, who were just kind of like, "Oh my God,
what does this mean?"
Fundamentalist students who hear this stuff never assumed that
the Bible has multiple authors, or that it's dependent on the culture or the times
or whatever.
There were people who completely lost their faith. There were
people who dropped out. There were people who weren't sure they were going to go
on to the ministry—they changed what they were going to do.
Her doubts persisted, as did her desire to be a part of the
Church.
I wanted to believe in God; all those years, I wanted to. I wasn't
sure if I really did or not, but I really wanted to.
I felt like the Church was a family. It gave me a second chance,
second home. I felt like there has to be something spiritual out there, and I wanted
to be a part of it. And it gave me aim to my life, it gave purpose, it gave me direction,
it got me out of my family. It was so comforting to know where I was going and what
I was doing, and to love doing it. I loved it!
She enjoyed preaching in her first church, where she was one
of four on the ministerial staff.
Because I didn't have to do it very often, I didn't have to face
my doubts very much. I would get to really spend a lot of time crafting a sermon,
and I would pick something that was more of interest to me, that was talking
about forgiveness or compassion.
I would take a story in the Bible, and create some character
that might not even exist, and tell the story from that person's perspective. People
loved those sermons.
She eventually moved to a small, conservative congregation
when its longtime pastor retired.
When I got to my church where I had to preach every week, it was
hell on wheels very quickly. . . . I was really stunned and shocked when a woman
said to me, "I know what Jesus said in the Bible, because it's written in
red." I remember just kind of sitting there, thinking, "Oh my God, what am
I doing here?"
I was not in a liberal church anymore. And when I talked about
having doubts—because I've always shared my faith story with people and talked about
my own struggles with it—the same woman looked at me and said, "Well, doubts are
sinful. They'll make you go to Hell."
When asked her reasons for choosing such a conservative church,
Winnie said she "admired their simple faith."
I wanted to believe the way they did. I wanted that kind of fervent,
deep, to your core, you-know-this-is-true.
She tried to make a go of it.
I'd always agreed with Frederick Buechner's Wishful Thinking,
his dictionary of faith, which defined doubt as "the ants in the pants of faith"
that keep you moving.[2] So I always hung on to the idea that somehow you're not going to have the same faith
you had when you were six, or when you were twelve, or when you were twenty-two.
It's going to keep changing.
But she eventually left both that church and the ministry.
I didn't feel like I could keep my integrity and stay in that
church. I didn't feel like I could survive in that church. I knew I couldn't be
me and be there. I know what they wanted to hear, and I couldn't give it to them.
The longer I had to preach every single week, and lead Bible
study every week, and deal with these people—it soured me on the entire thing. After
living in a fishbowl for a while, I had no desire to be a pastor anymore.
I was starting to realize I was a lesbian. The Church had banned
the ordination of gays and lesbians back in 1978, before I finished seminary, so
that being honest about my sexual orientation was never was going to be a
possibility. And I just couldn't keep saying the words I did not believe.
She considered other, more liberal denominations, like the
United Church of Christ or Unitarianism, but ultimately decided against making a
change.
I couldn't see switching denominations and having to take other
people's exams, going through all those hoops again. I was done with that. And it
would have required some of that, no matter what denomination I went to.
After working at a couple of counseling-related jobs, Winnie
eventually went back to school for her Ph.D in clinical psychology.
I think I get the best of ministry without all the crap of the
Church. I really do. I mean, psychology is the study of the soul. I feel like I'm
doing a lot of intervention with people in helping them figure out how to run their
lives in a healthier way and get more of whatever it is they want.
She hasn't been back to church since leaving her pastorate.
Her wife of thirteen years, a former fundamentalist, also does not attend church.
At the end of the interviews, Winnie described her current views about religion.
I believe there's something more than us, and I don't know what
that is, and I have no way to define that. I don't want to put a label like "God"
on it, because that has so much baggage for me.
I missed believing in Santa Claus when I found out there wasn't
one, and I had to fake it for my younger brother—and that's been the cycle. I wanted
to believe, I embraced it wholeheartedly, and then I find out it's not true and
I miss it. I look for something all-good and all-powerful and all-encompassing,
and it's not there. I don't feel that I'm completely separate from any kind of spirituality.
I would say that where I'm feeling it is in my gardening, being out in nature. I
miss the fact that it doesn't have to do with community. But it really doesn't.
6. Carl, the Lutheran Pastor: Persevering Through the Pain
Carl is a mid-career Lutheran pastor of a liberal church in
the Midwest. He has two children in college and a devoted wife who is aware of his
lack of belief but does not share it. Carl describes himself as a "womb to tomb"
Lutheran who felt called to the ministry as a young man.
Part of my sense of call was a pretty emotionally charged thing,
particularly at the camp. It was a place where families would come together for
a week, and it was a very emotionally intense kind of experience. People would come
in on Sunday and, over time, would sort of let their guard down, and there
would be some pretty deep sharing that would happen. Typically, the Friday evening
candlelight and Holy Communion services were pretty emotionally powerful events—lots
of tears, lots of hugs, lots of good feeling. And it was in that environment that
I had this strong feeling of being called to ministry—in addition to a discovery
that my love of history connected pretty nicely with Church history, biblical studies,
theology, philosophy, thinking about life in more than simply concrete ways.
He reflected carefully on his decision at the time, but has
since questioned his reasoning.
Who am I to be saying yes to this, and who am I to claim the Church's
authority and to speak for God? It seemed—and still seems, at times—a bit overwhelming
if a bit absurd, increasingly so, that a human being can claim to speak for God.
I'm more and more skeptical of people who say, "God told me" or "I heard God say
this to me." I've used that same language myself, but even when I used it at all,
I used it sparingly. I might say, "Well, I think that this could be of God," or
"I think this might be what was meant there." So I wonder, "Who am I to be doing
this?" and I get a deep sense of my own humanity, my own imperfections. I think
I'm a reasonably good, decent person, but in no way perfect.
When Carl went to seminary, after a rigorous academic and
psychological acceptance process, he easily accepted the historical/critical method
of studying the Bible and was interested in learning Greek and Hebrew, the Bible's
principal original languages. This perspective "really unlocked some things
that helped to make sense of what was going on." However, as he studied further,
he had mixed emotions about what he was learning.
The process of demythologizing Scripture was at the same time
exciting and troubling, in the sense of looking, for example, at the two Creation
narratives in Genesis and seriously saying, "OK, if they're not in fact true as
people often define truth, then what are they? What's the purpose? Why are they
important? What might be a different way of thinking about them?" The older I got—and
I think this is true for a lot of people—the older I got, you look at those stories
and you think it's ridiculous to think that this could be literally true in any
way.
While he was "beginning to ask those questions," he continued
"trusting [his] professors, who managed to hang in there with their own vows of
ordination and teaching in a seminary of the Church."
I was so set on this career path by then that at times I thought,
"Well, you know, that's just the professor's perspective." Then at other times,
I just took it in. And then at other times it was overwhelming.
He realizes the limitations of seminary training.
Seminary's a place for a lot of questions, but it's also a vocational
preparation school. Seminaries are in the business of providing pastors for the
Church, which isn't to say that what we did there was superficial, because it wasn't.
It was good scholarship, but finally, of the Church.
It was after years of repeating the liturgy and Bible verses
that Carl began to read contemporary liberal Christian writers and revisit questions
he had had in seminary.
More and more, I paid attention to what's happening in the world,
and I was having a difficult time squaring that with the problem of evil—the problem
of bad things happening to good people, or bad things happening to people for no
apparent reason. And then just sort of falling back on, "Well, you just don't understand,"
or "It's God's will," or "Only the good die young," or "God wants that person in
Heaven." It begins to break down. So then I moved to really a pretty heavy focus
on Jesus and who he is, and that's what drew me to the Jesus Seminar and
Marcus Borg and Dominic Crossan and Bishop John Spong.
I love the term that Spong uses—the whole idea of debunking
supernatural theism. What does it mean if we begin to say, "OK, is there an interventionist
God? And if so, then why do these things happen? And if not, then what?" Then how
do we understand God at all—the concept of God, using the name of God?
If I could have a completely candid conversation with Marcus
Borg[3],
where he could be safe to answer, I'd like to ask him, "Do you believe in God at
all?" And I don't mean that as a hostile question. Part of me would be comforted
if he said, "No, this is a philosophical system. This is a system of finding our
way through this world. But ultimately there is no sort of supernatural or cosmic
other. This is what it is."
I'd like to ask Borg how he has managed to keep his sanity with
all of his writing and his teaching. He seems like a very mystical guy, but at times
it does seem to me like he's putting it on so that he can still have a voice in
the Church, because his whole thing is about what he calls "adult theological re-education":
"precritical naïveté," deconstruction,
and "postcritical naïveté."
It's undoing childhood stuff and then going through a period of pretty profound
deconstruction, but then reconstructing something at the end. It's like Paul Tillich's
idea of God as the ground of being. Sometimes that makes sense to me; sometimes
that sounds like gobbledygook. What does he mean, "the ground of being"? And how
does one love the ground of being? I guess I'm not that smart.
Carl rejects "this understanding of God as this supernatural
being out there" but still finds value in upholding Christian stories and traditions.
More and more, I think Christianity has to do with living a good
life. I think the lessons of Jesus are profound and apply to life, without needing
any sense of "other." For instance, when I preach at a funeral of a lifelong faithful
Lutheran, I think I need to be a good steward of the tradition. But I've pretty
much rejected the idea of Heaven and Hell; it doesn't make sense to me.
Being a "steward of the tradition" and "an apologist for the
Lutheran faith," as he put it, can be difficult.
There's some dissonance because of my doubting. I'll say all the
right words, do all the right prayers—sort of enter into it. But, yeah, it's tough
for me.
Carl also expressed concern about being found out.
If folks in my congregation knew I was having this discussion
with you, it would not go down well, understandably. So maybe I'm looking for some
answers myself, you know. Something about your study grabbed my attention and was
intriguing enough for me to send an e-mail. But it's hard—it's hard for me.
He provided a typical dialogue showing how he approaches colleagues
in the clergy about his concerns.
When I've tested this a little bit—granted, a limited sample—it
hasn't gone down real well. For instance [I'll say,] "Hey, have you read Marcus
Borg's Meeting Jesus Again for the First Time?"
"Oh, that guy's a heretic, and he's way out there, and he's
a radical, wild liberal!"
"OK, thanks. See ya."
He speculates on the reasons for his colleagues' responses.
I don't think a lot of my colleagues are having the struggles
I'm having, because they have simply chosen to compartmentalize it [their
faith]. And for those who don't have the struggle, God bless them! I don't enjoy
this. I hate it, actually. I wish it were easier for me. Most days, I wish I could
just believe it and be done with it and go on. I haven't been able to do that.
Carl has a few friends he has discussed some of his concerns
with: a group of retired Lutheran ministers and a buddy from seminary who didn't
finish. This is how he paraphrases the advice from the retired ministers:
Well, we long ago gave up on the idea that any of this is literally
true, so what's the big deal? Why not simply appreciate the aesthetics of it and
the meaning and purpose it gives to people. And if stuff seems like BS to you, well,
don't preach it. You don't throw out the baby with the bathwater.
And that of the seminary buddy:
You know, if this doesn't seem good for you or good for your health
or good for whatever, why don't you do something else?
Carl says his response is to "kind of drop the subject and
move on." Several years ago, he started a weeknight book-discussion group with parishioners.
Their reading has included Borg's The God We Never Knew;
A New Kind of Christianity, by the progressive evangelical pastor, Brian
McLaren and books by the very liberal retired Episcopal Bishop, John
Shelby Spong.
Well, first of all, I say up front, "I am the facilitator
of this group—I'm not teaching." Part of that, to be candid, is a little bit self-protective,
but also I don't want to be seen as the authority, a pastor who is teaching from
on high. I come prepared, and I ask questions, and I basically say there
will be no judgment in the group. It will be an open discussion.
Carl has thought of leaving the ministry, and he applied for
numerous jobs; however, he was not offered any he found sufficiently appealing.
I think if somebody had said to me, "Here's a job that has nothing
to do with God or deep thoughts or philosophy or anything having to do with the
Church, and we'll give you the same amount of money," I would have taken it. But
it wasn't there, so I didn't.
He has also considered becoming a minister in the Unitarian
Universalist Church, which accepts nonbelievers both as members and clergy.
Still, he feels the pull of his Lutheran roots.
There's also the ecclesiastical sense of call. So there might
be times when that inner sense of call is not very strongly felt, but you hear the
Church calling. And it's embedded in my mind that the Church's call is God's call—that
God is in the community, the spirit at work in and through the community. So when
there have been doubts, the Church has always been there to say, "No, you're called
to do this. You're good at it, you're good with people, you're a good public speaker,
and so on."
He recognizes the positive role the Church has played in his
life, and he fears the effect that his loss of belief could have if it were
known.
The Church has been my community all my life, OK? It's a place
of meaning, a place of purpose, a place of affirmation, a place of wonderful music
and relationships, a creative place. The community of the Church has been the thing
that has supported me and been there for me through the best and worst of it. So
to question, in a very fundamental way, the basic tenets upon which this institution
exists, is, for me, enough to cause me to quake a little bit. . . . I have kids
in college, so it's frightening to think that all that could be taken away if I
ask too many questions or raise too many issues publicly, so I keep a lot of this
in the closet. But I think there are times when I have physical symptoms. I don't
like the term "anxiety attacks," but sometimes I'll read a hymn while we're singing
it—a great old hymn that I've loved all my life—and take another look at the text
and think, "That is absurd!" I love this music—bizarre language that I have sung
with full voice without even thinking about it.
Carl decided he did not want to talk confidentially with other
nonbelieving clergy because it would just "stir things up" for him. He plans to
stay in parish ministry until his retirement.
7. Brian, the Lutheran Seminary Dropout: Dodging a Bullet
Brian is a government contractor in his thirties from the
Midwest who calls himself "a naturalist, a materialist." We decided to interview
him to get the perspective of a person who recognized his nonbelief before making
a commitment. He contacted us after reading the 2010 pilot study—not to participate
in the present study but to urge us on in our research, noting that:
I fall into the category of those who dodged that bullet by deciding
at the last minute not to continue on to seminary after college. I didn't realize
at the time how much trouble I was saving myself.
Still, openly stating his views on religion ("I don't have
a belief in the supernatural") is a relatively new experience for him.
For the longest time, for many years, I didn't give it much thought,
really. It was just sort of in the background of my daily life.
On some level, not being religious was my default condition.
As far as having the courage to acknowledge it internally, or even say it out loud
to someone in a low-risk environment, like a coworker who I already knew wasn't
a churchgoer, I would say it's fairly recently—within the past couple of years—that
I really felt comfortable enough, as a fully formed adult, that I could demand basic
human respect from people, that I didn't have to use the idea of religion to encourage
them to accept me.
His Lutheran religious training allowed for some questioning.
I was raised to believe that questioning our faith is natural—but
not too much questioning. If you were having serious doubts, you needed to read
your Bible. You needed to pray about it; you needed to reflect on how best to forgive
yourself this fault and soldier on.
As a child, becoming a pastor seemed like a natural choice
for Brian.
I was brought up to believe that joining the clergy was one of
the best things you could do with your life. And in conjunction with the fact that
my particular set of inborn talents was uniquely appropriate for that duty, it seemed
a natural progression for me, according to everyone around me. "Oh, he's so good
at public speaking. Wouldn't he make a great pastor? He's so smart about memorizing
Bible verses. He's so compassionate with his friends and his family members—isn't
that a great quality for a minister?"
Brian attended a Lutheran high school and graduated from a
Lutheran college with a double major, in communications and pre-seminary studies.
Most of the hour-long Skype call with Brian was spent discussing his religious education.
I studied ancient Greek and Old Testament Hebrew, and the contemporary
Old Testament texts, and things like that. They're fairly frank there [at his college]
about acknowledging how the Bible was put together in the first place. But no one
at that school denied that it was all divinely inspired.
Even in high school, we were already taught some of the historical
information about how the Bible was compiled, and so on. There wasn't a moment in
a college course when the professor shattered all my illusions about the divine
inspiration of the Bible. It wasn't like that. It was just sort of a gradual, "Oh,
OK, so you're just saying this or that book was included or excluded—that it was
a political decision. OK. But you're also telling me that God made it happen that
way because that's the way He wanted it to happen." It was all very self-justifying.
It was an accumulation of knowledge, and then at a certain point you just realize
and accept that God was an invisible hand guiding it all—or you don't. But, yeah,
when I was a little kid I was taught that Moses wrote the Pentateuch and that it
was directly inspired by the Creator. You're disabused of that notion fairly quickly,
once you get into the meat-and-potatoes of religion classes, particularly at the
college level.
It was like, "Is your faith strong enough to withstand learning
these things?" And the answers all around you are, "Yes, of course. Yes, obviously.
We're learning more about how great God is—that He's able to achieve all this by
these means. And the outside world, the secular world, won't understand,
because they can't understand, and how lucky are we?"
It's not an intellectual exercise. It's not an academic pursuit—it
sort of masquerades as one, but at its core it's a test of trust in each other.
Are you or aren't you one of us? And woe to the one who doesn't toe the line. There's
a lot of psychological pressure to conform, and when I was young it was too much
for me. I was scared to look objectively at things, because I thought I was sinning
by doing so.
I'm almost a little embarrassed now, looking back, that I didn't
have the courage as a youth to stand up and ask the questions that probably a lot
of people around me were thinking about too. We all just assumed that the faith
that was around us was rock-solid.
After college graduation, Brian moved to another state to
attend a respected Lutheran seminary, but he left after the first day of orientation.
I didn't feel that I could, in good conscience, be a faithful
representative of the Church to people who were relying on me for their information
about God. I had this overwhelming feeling that I was setting myself up to be a
black sheep if I was too honest. Or alternatively, to be a self-loathing kind of
creature if I stayed with the program, if I stuck to the talking points.
He had an explanation ready for his family about why he had
changed his mind.
There's a code in the Church as to the calling: Are you [called]
or aren't you? And only you know whether you're called. So I very simply
just had to say, "You know, I didn't have the calling." A lot of information is
conveyed in that simple phrase—to be called or to not be called—and it's enough
for people. Now, they may ask follow-up questions, like, 'Well, what do you
think you're going to do?' But then it becomes a secular question, a logical question.
The question of whether or not to join the clergy is a spiritual question.
Brian is now employed in a technical field for which he is
well suited, and he is happily married. At the time of his interview, he and his
wife had one child and another on the way. His wife is "culturally Catholic," and
they plan to raise their kids that way.
I don't proselytize my son against religion. I put it in a cultural
context, an historical context, for him if he has questions. So I expect that he'll
be raised understanding the Christian tradition but not necessarily being a believer—unless,
of course, he concludes on his own that it's the way to go, in which case I'll respect
it. But I've got a real problem lying to my kids. I don't want to be a party to
an indoctrination. I doubt if my wife would want that either, but she just sees
it as a cultural heritage thing. She's not a hard-core Catholic, either.
He continues to be grateful that he did not pursue his seminary
education.
I would have been setting myself up for no end of misery had I
gone into the clergy.
8. Glen, the Catholic Priest: Hiding Among Those Who Damned Him
Glen is on an extended leave of absence from the Roman Catholic
Church after ten years in the priesthood. He was raised in the United Methodist
Church and as a young adult, became an Episcopalian and considered ministry
in the Episcopal Church. He completed a doctorate in an unrelated field before
entering a Catholic seminary. Glen felt drawn to clerical life as an adolescent.
Even now it's hard to put into words this desire to be involved
in the things of the church. . . . This desire to grow closer to God, and
as you do so, to lead others to God. This desire to be involved in the liturgical
and sacramental acts of the church. That was very much part of it. And I think even
at that point there was an awareness of ministry as an opportunity to walk with
people through the important events of their life. And that was very attractive
to me as well.
I remember when I sat down with my pastor and said, "I'm having
these feelings that I can't quite put into words. It's almost like a calling from
someone else." And he said, "Well, those are the right words to use: 'calling
from someone else.'"
When Glen finished his undergraduate degree, he planned to
enter Episcopal seminary, but he changed his mind after attempting to write his
spiritual autobiography.
I wrote one page, reread it, and thought, "This is the
most ridiculous thing I've ever seen!" It was full of clichés and fluff and imaginative,
overly romantic thinking about how God and I had been buddies all these years. I
had an epiphany—that this is dishonest, and how can I pursue ministry when I don't
have a concept of God, much less a relationship with God? And I just said, "Well,
this will be past tense." And that ended my discernment in the Episcopal Church.
Glen remained an Episcopalian for a while before switching
to a Catholic church.
During my doctoral studies, I somehow fell in love with the Catholic
Church. And how that all started I really don't know, other than that I was deeply
in love with a guy who was Roman Catholic. So to get in good with him, I played
the faithful bit. But I was rejected by him. And somehow I found myself really questioning
myself, uncertain about myself, loathing myself as a gay man. I knew that the Catholic
Church had some answers about morality, and about confirming that yes, there was
something wrong with me.
I could hide among those who were damning me. Oh, yeah, I had
a lot of self-hatred, self-loathing. For the first time in my life, I had pursued
a gay love interest, and it had gone horribly, horribly wrong.
The Catholic Church offered structure and safety.
I thought, "This is a great solution to all of my sexual woes.
I'll just be so good."
I also sensed in the Catholic Church a more well-developed theology.
I'm not quite sure why that mattered to me, but I understood it later in life: It
provided answers, and I liked that; I needed that.
In the Catholic Church, the personal closeness to God that
is a feature of the Episcopal faith seemed less important to him.
In the Catholic Church, I could say that it's OK that I never
fell in love with God, because I experience God through the Sacraments. I experience
God through the recitation of the rosary.
I may not have the warm fuzzies and the hugs that I need to
live, but I will have the structure of having security. I will have the responsibilities.
I will know my place, and everyone else will know their place, too.
When he applied to the seminary, he was not truthful about
his sexuality.
During my psychological evaluations, I was asked by the examining
psychologist if I was gay or straight, and I said, "Straight." I lied.
Glen estimates that 50 to 75 percent of his fellow
seminarians were gay, including "some who were not aware of it, so repressed that
they never would have been able to access it." He recalled that the Church formally
addressed celibacy but not homosexuality.
Every year, we were required to have a sexuality seminar, where
often we brought in an outside speaker and talked about sexual integration, about
how to have healthy friendships, and how to be a happy celibate priest. But nowhere
were things like homosexuality addressed. Masturbation was never addressed, other
than to be laughed about.
In seminary, he encountered widespread social dysfunction.
There was dysfunction among the faculty and the students. And
I'm not excluding myself, either—I was certainly dysfunctional. There was severe
emotional immaturity, severe relationship impairments.
There was no expressed interest in getting to know people as
individuals. I wouldn't ask, "How are you doing today?" I would ask, "Hey, have
you done your rosary yet? Would you like to pray the rosary with me?" Or, "I hear
your mom died. I'll do a novena to the Blessed Mother."
There's a superficiality and social posturing in seminary that
uses religious language to pat people on the head. People are trying to outdo each
other in terms of piety and in terms of perceived socially aligned power relationships—for
instance, "Well, my bishop is more popular than your bishop."
As for his academic experience at seminary, he enjoyed his
studies even as he questioned some of what he was learning.
A lot about Church history I just found fascinating! So much of
it was new to me. And there is something about the complexity of Catholic theology
that is really engrossing. But alongside the interest, there were also times in
which I was troubled by something.
We were studying atonement theory, and I thought, "Was there
not a better way to save humanity than to resort to human sacrifice?" But we were
not encouraged to ask those kinds of questions. This particular professor mocked
those who did ask those kinds of questions.
We learned about how the Bible was written and how it came to
be. It's a mess! And when we study it semantically, we realize it's a joke—I mean,
it is an absolute tragedy. It's just carryovers from other traditions; I could figure
that out on my own. Then when there is repetition of stories within the Bible, the
professor would say, "Well, these are just two different sources that were sown
together, but that's OK." There are always answers for these things.
Glen accepted the miracles of the New Testament without questioning.
The prophecy about Mary may have said "young woman" and not "virgin,"
but Christ also happened to be born of a virgin out of necessity—that he not be
tainted by Original Sin, which is transmitted by sexuality. So it's taking some
Scripture and Catholic theology and fusing them together to provide a nice answer.
I thought, "Well, that makes sense! That's a nice answer!" I just wanted answers.
I wanted things I could write down and regurgitate.
In Christology class, we learned the importance of setting
aside scientific proofs when it comes to theology—saying there is scientific natural
history and there's also God's supernatural history. And the Resurrection is the
prime example of supernatural history that suspends the laws of nature. We cannot
understand it in terms of natural explanations, only supernatural explanations.
And I said, "OK, sounds good to me!"
Some seminarians would ask questions, being careful not to
seem personally skeptical.
They would ask the question in class in just the right way to
get by with it, such as, "Well, how do we answer those who say...?" And that's the
clue—"those who say." Then the professor would give the answer, and you could tell
the person was still wrestling with it.
Glen described other ways that some seminarians dealt with
their skepticism.
Often they became more and more entrenched in conservatism. They
would study the Latin Mass and the saints. They'd read only the old authors.
Maybe they immersed themselves in overly pietistic behavior. They retreated into
the safety of hyperstructure, and I think I was guilty of that to some extent.
He didn't dwell on the theological explanations he learned
in seminary until he became a parish priest.
We don't have a lot of situations where we, as seminarians, are
called upon to give these answers publicly to real people in real situations, and
deal with their responses. It is such a controlled environment that the rubber never
quite meets the road in a seminary.
It wasn't until I got to the parish giving these same answers
that I realized, "Boy, what bullshit!" There was a difference hearing myself give
these answers to people who were genuinely asking. I felt like a fraud. I really
felt bad.
Sometimes I would convince people—not because of my language,
but I think because they wanted to be convinced. When I was teaching Bible study
in the parish, I would often use my seminary notes. I'd written down verbatim the
nice way to say these things. And if you say crazy things in a nice way, most people
for a split second will say, "Well, that sounds good." And then they'll be at home
and they'll say, "Now, wait a minute! That doesn't sound right."
Giving sermons was easier for Glen than answering parishioners'
direct questions about Church teaching. In his sermons, Glen found ways to deflect
difficult situations.
I never preached sermons that delved into the history of the Scriptures,
because I was uncomfortable doing that. It raised too many questions in my mind,
and I was afraid it would raise questions in parishioners' minds, and they would
then ask me about it.
I often would give sermons about life lessons that we can learn
from the Scriptures as literary text. For instance, one Christmas I gave a sermon
about the shepherds spreading the good news after they left the stable. And what
was the most effective way to do that? To live a good life. Not necessarily to preach
dogma but, as St. Francis says, "To preach the Gospel at all times, and when necessary
use words."
As time went on, I turned more and more to these canned, prewritten
sermons that you can subscribe to for about $100 a year. They were actually pretty
well done, using Scripture as the grounds for personal development. I would always
adapt it to make it sound a little bit more like me.
There was one potential sermon subject that Glen carefully
avoided.
I never preached about homosexuality, ever. If I had said something
against it, I thought people might think, "He doth protest too much." If I had said
something in support of gay people within the Church, then that would probably have
had ramifications—I might be called into the bishop's office.
I never got a sense that people knew I was gay, but I'm not
naïve enough to think that nobody figured it out.
Attempting to resolve parishioners' Church-related dilemmas
was painful for him.
A young, gay man comes to see me and says, "My partner and I have
a child through a surrogate. I'm a practicing Catholic, my boyfriend comes to church
with me often, and we'd like to have our child baptized." And my heart is breaking
at this point. Everything I know as a human being says, "Baptize this child." If
you believe in the theology of infant baptism, we're doing this for the child—to
guarantee that he goes to Heaven. Plus, this is a practicing Catholic man whose
partner comes to Mass often. But to my eternal—if there's such a thing—regret, I
refused to baptize the child. I said, "Our Church loves you as a gay man, we support
you as an individual, but we cannot support your lifestyle, so we cannot baptize
your child." He started crying and pretty much stormed out, and I never saw him
back again. That was the first major experience I had of realizing that what I did
was harmful and disingenuous and fake.
A parishioner asked if it would it be OK for his non-Catholic
wife to take Communion. And both I and my superior said no, and the letter of the
law says no. Here's a good woman, truly. She was raising Catholic kids, living a
quasi-Catholic life. She would have converted in a heartbeat if it hadn't been for
her family of origin. I still feel sick today about it.
As time went on, it became harder for Glen to accept his role
as a representative of the Church.
There were a lot of these experiences, feeling like a fake or
fraud or disingenuous, and they were increasing in power for me and really caused
me to question. At first, I would never have admitted to not believing in the entire
system. I'd think, "Well, this is just a crack in the foundation." But as time went
along, I became more and more aware of cracks that I knew were there all along but
just kind of pretended they weren't.
There's a horrible lack of humaneness regarding marriage and
remarriage issues. There's close-mindedness to scientific progress beneficial to
people—like birth control and condoms for people in Africa to combat AIDS.
I became aware of my own emptiness as a priest. Not just because
I didn't enjoy it; I did enjoy some of the duties. I just couldn't effectively convey
a belief system that was less and less real or believable to me.
After he told his bishop that he was unhappy and thinking
of leaving, the bishop sent him to a retreat facility to "read and pray and reflect
and do Mass." The psychotherapy he received while on retreat gave him additional
insight.
Pretty early on, I knew that finding a different assignment wasn't
the answer, because I would still be playing a role I didn't feel comfortable
playing anymore and giving answers I didn't believe in. And I was dissatisfied with
living an increasingly double life, going to Mass and saying, "Well, this is just
a waste of time. Do people really believe this? Because I don't."
"It's true whether you believe it or not," was something I heard
along the way. But I didn't believe that the bread changes to anything. My first
awareness of my thinking was when someone dropped a Communion host and I wasn't
at all alarmed. People will freak out if the host drops; a priest will take it and
eat it. I would never do that; that's nasty. I'd throw it in the yard.
After much reflection, he accepted his unbelief.
I've wondered: Did my beliefs change, or did I confront a lack
of belief that had been there all along? I think it's probably more that I refused
to acknowledge a lack of belief because I so desperately wanted to believe. I needed
the structure of church; I believed in the institutional Church and felt that was
satisfactory enough. But the less I came to believe and trust the institution, the
comfort faded. So I'm now left with the God that should be behind the Church that
I don't really believe in.
I do not believe in the Christian God. I do not believe in the
God that is recorded in the New Testament or the Old Testament. I do not believe
in the God that is portrayed in the Christian creeds. I am fairly certain that there
is no God—99-percent certain.
There's no God who is invested in our lives. There's no God
who is by nature a relational being. The less than 1 percent of me holding out the
possibility that there is would see it more as some kind of a vague force, an energy.
But, again, in my mind it's so far-fetched and so remote a possibility that I really
don't have a refined concept of what a god would be like if it did exist.
He considered the possibility that he had not believed for
a long time.
I remember fairly early on in my priesthood saying to myself that
I really don't think there's anybody listening. And I admitted to myself that I'm
probably doing this out of a sense of duty, for some kind of psychological compulsion.
I wasn't praying because I believed I was communicating with God, I was praying
to assuage guilt for not doing it.
He started paying attention to information about nonbelief.
The very last year of priesthood, I read atheist writers like
Richard Dawkins and Sam Harris. They just made sense to me; they hit my own logical
thinking.
I remember watching episodes of South Park about the
Catholic Church,[4]
and thinking, "There is probably more truth in this than there is in all
the New and Old Testaments—more truth about religion and the portrait of God that
we humans have created for ourselves." Things like that, even though not scientific
and not reason-based or particularly intellectual, still stuck with me.
When he decided to take a leave of absence, the first step
in formally leaving the priesthood, his family was supportive but perplexed.
I didn't talk with my mother about it much, because I sensed that
it just added to her confusion about why someone would walk away from a career they've
trained for and seemed to enjoy. She has some Catholic friends who went to my parish,
so she knows that I was well liked, well regarded. So for her it just doesn't make
a lot of sense.
Now that he was away from the Church, preparing to reenter
his pre-seminary profession, he reflected on how his life was changing.
On Sunday mornings, I'm not quite sure what to do with myself.
For quite a while, I did go to Mass, because I felt it was expected of me. But that
was such an uncomfortable experience, internally and externally, with people seeing
me there on the other side of the altar. I would force myself to go up and receive
Communion, because I wanted to be seen receiving Communion. But I felt like
a fraud doing that. So, I do miss the community. I do miss the being around people.
I do miss having something in your life that you can count on taking place once
a week for an hour.
As the last interview ended, Glen had a few final points he
wanted to make.
I want to help others—I believe that the kind of research you're
doing can be very impacting.
The breaking point came one morning when I was putting the clerical
collar around my neck and I felt like I was putting on a shackle—you know, those
old iron shackles? Leaving the priesthood was like taking the shackles off. It really
was a sense of freedom, even though I was walking into great uncertainty.
I knew of a priest who committed suicide and it came out afterwards
how unhappy he was as a priest, as a person. I remember saying to myself when it
happened, "Boy, I will never let myself get that unhappy."
9. Joe, the Mormon Bishop: A Hopeful Agnostic
Joe is a Mormon in his early forties, about halfway through
his five-year term as bishop, or pastor, of his ward (congregation). The Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints does not have lifelong career clergy; instead,
respected men in the community are called upon to act as bishops in addition
to their secular occupation.[5]
When their five-year terms are up, they leave that office—although they may be called
upon again to serve the Church in one or another capacity. Joe has five children,
the older ones in their teens, and a wife who is a stay-at-home mom and a dedicated
church member. Both he and his wife come from families that have been
Mormon for generations.
Joe's first questioning of his faith started a few years ago,
when he became more active on the Internet.
I think the Internet was a big factor, just beginning to research
some of the questions about my faith and its origins.
You know how you're on the Internet and something strikes your
eye? You say, "Oh, that's kind of interesting. I'll just check that out—I'll just
kind of browse." So I began to read some articles of an unorthodox nature that began
to cause me to expand my perspective a little bit and help me to see things from
a different point of view. I've always tried to be an open-minded person, so I began
to see things from a different side.
One piece of information that Joe learned on the Internet
particularly disturbed him.
I was always taught that Joseph Smith had these gold plates and
he had a tool to translate them with a scribe. Well, I come to find out that's not
really how it happened. How it happened is, the gold plates aren't even there, or
they're covered up in some way. He's got a hat, with what's called a seer stone,
that he previously used to go treasure hunting with. He's got that in the hat, he's
looking in the hat, and then this kind of dictating is coming to him. So I'm wondering,
"What's the purpose of the gold plates, then." Right?
The Church has no artistic representations of Joseph's face
in a hat. And now I'm hearing about the hat, and I'm like, "I never heard about
the hat. How come I never heard about the hat?" So, it's hard, you know—I mean,
something like that is devastating.
Based on some of his Internet readings, he started to think
of some Mormon teachings as being symbolic rather than literal.
What goes on inside the literal Temple is kind of a macrocosm
of what goes on inside your bodily temple. You are really the center, and
how you create harmony and unity inside you is really what's more important than
the actual, literal ordinances or sacraments or ceremonies. There was something
about that that made sense to me and appealed to me. It provided more spiritual
nourishment.
However, there are problems with the symbolic approach to
Mormonism.
The downside of that is that if you don't look at it literally,
then you start to question what is literal and what is symbolic. Is there literally
a God, or is that a symbolic thing? Is Joseph Smith literally a prophet, or is that
more of a symbolic thing? So you start to examine those different points
of view, and you start to question and wonder and examine what you believe.
The Mormon faith is very black and white; there's not a lot
of gray area that you can work with. Even my just talking superficially about the
Temple with you would make a lot of Mormons feel very uncomfortable.
There's no pathway that says doubt is a part of faith, from
my experience in Mormonism. It's always "to know." "I know the Church is true. I
know Jesus is the Christ. I know Joseph Smith is a true prophet." That's what you
say every month in the Testimony Meeting. You get up spontaneously and you say,
"I know these things are true." Nobody gets up there and says, "I have faith, I
believe."
He also placed great stock in having spiritual experiences,
until he learned more about them on the Internet.
For Mormons, the idea of how you come to know that something is
true involves having a spiritual experience where the spirit testifies to you or
tells you that something is true.
I've had some really special spiritual experiences—I would say
that for me it transcends mere emotion. It's something I can't explain, necessarily.
But then through my curiosity on the Internet, I began to find out that Mormons
are not that unique. People who are Catholic, Protestant, Muslim, Buddhist, are
having spiritual experiences, too.
If God wants everybody to be Mormon because Mormonism is the
true Church, why would He give other people spiritual experiences that would confirm
their own faith tradition and send them out on that trajectory? It's confusing,
you know.
Joe is struggling with his beliefs.
It didn't feel good to me anymore to say that what I believe trumps
everybody else. It's like the toothpaste is out of the tube and you can't push it
back in.
I don't know what I believe anymore, you know. I don't know
that I can hang my hat on anything. I do feel like there's love out there. I don't
know that I can confidently, on a literal level, say that there's this Bearded Father
that I'm going to physically embrace someday. The probability of it being exactly
the way that I was taught is pretty low.
I'd probably label myself a hopeful agnostic, or a 'possibility'
agnostic. So probably leaning more towards theism a little bit—that something's
out there. It's hard for me to let go of that.
His change of heart has been difficult for him and his wife.
You do a lot of crying. You try to talk to your wife about it,
but she's still pretty orthodox, so it's hard on her. You're alone. You've got no
one to talk to, because you're a bishop. You're supposed to be the leader of the
congregation for five years, yet this is happening right in the middle of it. So
it tears you apart, you know. You try to figure out a way. . . to carry on, because
if you were to step down, that could hurt a lot of people's lives. It's hard, it's
horrendous, it's painful.
The issues about the history, and some of the other things I
talk about, are not a big deal for my wife. I don't think she thinks that deeply
about it. The Church is a positive influence on her. It helps her to feel good.
It helps her to feel connected.
Through all of this, Joe still feels like a Mormon and sees
value in it for his children.
I will always call myself a Mormon. It's in my blood; it's in
my DNA. It's my community on both my mom's side and my dad's side. Even if I'm not
sure of the truthfulness or the literalness, I still have very positive feelings
for the Church—so there's some loyalty there.
I think my positive experiences growing up Mormon tend to be
more prominent than the part of me that worries that my kids are going to be in
the same boat I'm in now. Yeah, they could be, but if they are, then I can be there
for them.
He struggles to do right by his conscience and his congregation.
I love being able to help people through problems, to counsel
them. That's good.
Some days are easy, some days are hard. I try to look for what's
good. I try to look for how the Church is making a positive difference in people's
lives. I talk like Jesus did, where everybody assumes I mean something in a literal
way, and my meaning is more symbolic. I might say that I know that Joseph Smith
is a true prophet of God. Now, on a literal basis, I don't totally know. But on
a symbolic basis, I agree with Moses, who said, "I wish everybody was a prophet."
And maybe everybody is, you know, for their own life.
When asked how he thought people understood what he said,
he responded:
I think they're taking it literally. Sometimes it's hard, because
I worry that if they knew really what I was thinking and feeling, they'd be sad
or angry or disappointed—devastated, maybe. But I always hold out hope that those
things are true. I won't know it's literally true unless I leave this life and wake
up and it's all the way I was taught. I think the probability of that happening
is very low.
His changing beliefs have made it difficult to carry
out his duties as bishop.
I'm in this really weird position, where a good bishop
is supposed to try and bring people back into the fold. But at the same time, technically,
I'm a lost sheep myself, from some people's point of view. So it's this cognitive-dissonance
force, where it's just shredding me, and I want to talk with them so badly and say,
"I know what you're going through." But I'm their bishop, too, you know, and I'm
supposed to help them back in.
He would like to see the Mormon Church change.
There are Mormons who want some breathing room, want some flexibility,
want some reformation. They want to have that flexibility to be able to say that
some things are not literally true, that it's more symbolic. I think there's
a lot of Mormons who want to stay in the faith, but they want things to be a little
bit different.
If I'm talking to you right now, that means something. There
are others out there. Maybe they don't talk about it, but I would imagine that there
are some who feel the same way I do or have gone through what I'm going through.
In the meantime, he is waiting for his term as bishop to come
to an end. He is glad to have an established way out and a secular career that provides
financial support for his family.
This is as far as I'm going. I decided I can't deal with the cognitive
dissonance. It's too much being a leader—I'm barely surviving as it is. But I know
there's a light at the end of the tunnel and that I'll be gone in the next two years
or so.
I'm fortunate. I know that those in other religions who have
chosen ministry as a career have gone to divinity school. They've invested their
whole lives in it. I can't imagine the pain they're going through. They don't have
an easy exit. I'll have the opportunity to have a graceful exit, to go quietly.
But they don't.




[1]
By John Michael Talbot.


[2]
Frederick Buechner, Wishful Thinking: A Theological ABC (New York:
Harper & Row, 1986).


[3]
Marcus Borg - well known author and theologian, originally Lutheran http://www.marcusjborg.com/ 


[4]
e.g., "Red Hot Catholic Love," Season 6, Episode 8 http://www.southparkstudios.com/full-episodes/s06e08-red-hot-catholic-love
or http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/11/17/top-10-south-park-episode_n_824696.html#slide=480114
, clips of 10 episodes dealing with religion.


[5]
One prominent example is Mitt Romney, who served as a bishop in Belmont,
Massachusetts, from 1981 to 1986.










III. Breaking the Shell: Transparency and the Survival of Religions
Daniel C. Dennett
There was a great Hasidic rabbi who used to say that a Jew
sees more on the subway in one ride from Williamsburg to the city than the Jews
used to see in the shtetl—back in the early days—in their whole lifetimes.
—Sherm, the Orthodox rabbi
The second law of thermodynamics tells us that everything
wears out in the end—"In time, the Rockies may tumble, Gibraltar may crumble, they're
only made of clay." Living things defy the second law for a while, extracting energy
and materials to repair and renew themselves, and of course reproduce themselves,
staving off death and extinction indefinitely. Religions, as self-perpetuating social
institutions, similarly defy the second law, and they do it thanks to design features
that bear a striking resemblance to the mechanisms of the simplest living things:
cells.[1]
In order to survive and reproduce, a cell needs:
(1) a way of extracting and using energy—that is, a metabolism;
(2) a way of reproducing—copying its particular solutions to the problem of staying
alive into other, offspring systems;
(3) a protective membrane to keep the good stuff in and the bad stuff out.
The membrane must have entrances and exits, of course, under
the control of the inner machinery—not only to acquire the energy and excrete the
waste products but also to acquire useful outside information to guide its trajectory.
Here, too, the essential trick is finding ways of letting the good
stuff in while keeping the useless and subversive stuff out, or else neutralizing
or destroying the bad stuff once it gets in. Cells have evolved many ways of dealing
with these requirements, including extra internal membranes to protect specialized
modules, all manner of sentries to keep the enemies out, and inner patrols to keep
the peace within.
Religions have rediscovered many of the same mechanisms. This
is not really a case of Art copying Nature, since most of these features of religions
had been in place for centuries before the discoveries of cell biologists. Rather,
it is a case of convergent evolution. Similarly, dolphins didn't copy sharks when
the dolphins' mammalian ancestors joined sharks in the oceans millions of
years later; evolution by natural selection reinvented the hydrodynamic sharklike
shape a second time. Good tricks tend to get reinvented again and again.[2]
Looking at the plight of pastors through the lens of evolutionary theory yields
a compelling sense of the Good Tricks that have culturally evolved to deal with
the problems and forces that have shaped practices and traditions over the centuries.
What the Darwinian perspective adds to traditional interpretations of these mechanisms
is the recognition that Good Tricks need not have clever, devious designers; they
may evolve by differential replication. There are reasons why the surviving variations
work so well, but nobody needs to have appreciated these reasons. The practices
and policies may have emerged by happenstance and been adopted with a mere glimmer
of understanding, or even utter misunderstanding, but they then "paid for themselves"
by enhancing the fitness of the institutions incorporating them.
It is well known that different religions handle the membrane
problem in different ways and with different results. At one extreme are secretive
sects and cults, highly xenophobic and isolated, prohibiting access to all outsiders
and severely restricting the inflow of information from all media to their members.
Less insulated but still heavily sheltered are Orthodox Jews; the Hutterites; Anabaptists,
such as the Amish; the Druze; some varieties of Muslims, especially the women; some
varieties of Buddhist monks; and Christian monks and nuns. At the other extreme
are churches that advertise an open-door policy, welcoming all and attempting, with
varying degrees of success, to render their members immune to all the alien material
rushing in.
There is a systemic problem that all religions face, no matter
which policy they adopt: Somebody has to monitor the external world to decide what
to let in and what to censor (if possible). Moreover, some of what gets in needs
to be detoxified somehow, and doing this means that somebody has to attend carefully
to the dangerous material. How do these monitors protect themselves from
the dire effects of the poisons? Not very well, and the task is getting harder every
day. Does it ever happen, for instance, that a church leader gets to know the enemy
in order better to combat it, only to be persuaded by the encounter that the enemy
is right? Yes, indeed. Several of our clergy—Glen, the Catholic priest; Adam,
a Church of Christ minister from our pilot study; and Harry, a former Lutheran and
nondenominational pastor interviewed for the present study, for instance—sought
out books by the New Atheists (Richard Dawkins, the late Christopher Hitchens, Sam
Harris and myself, among many others) only to find themselves persuaded by them.
The media have become well stocked in recent years with new expressions
of disbelief, bringing taboo topics into general currency and confronting defenders
of religion with a delicate choice. Should they avert their eyes and urge their
flocks to do likewise, in the hope that these subversive themes will recede? Or
should at least some of their members examine the new threats and try to disarm
them, discredit them, extinguish them? Religions are not alone in facing this quandary.
How much sex education do parents want their children to get, and when and how should
they get it? And the problems are not new.
How 'ya gonna keep 'em,
down on the farm,
After they've seen Paree?
How 'ya gonna keep 'em away from Broadway;
Jazzin' around and paintin' the town?
How 'ya gonna keep 'em away from harm?
That's a mystery;
They'll never want to see a rake or plow,
And who the deuce can parleyvous a cow?
How 'ya gonna keep 'em down on the farm,
After they've seen Paree?[3]
Religion's defenders (the monitors guarding the membranes)
have had to deal with this problem in one form or another for centuries, but it
has become much more severe with the rapid spread of electronic media. The Roman
Catholic Church's notorious Index Librorum Prohibitorum (Index of Prohibited
Books) was initiated by Pope Paul IV in 1559, in response to the rising tide of
printed books in the wake of Gutenberg. It lasted for over four hundred years and
was quietly abolished after the Church realized that it was not only ineffective
but also counterproductive, inciting curiosity about the listed books. (Compare
"Banned in Boston," an epithet once much sought by Broadway shows.) Books
and other print media continue to storm the gates, but their role is beginning
to be overshadowed by the electronic media. South Park had an episode about
Catholicism that made an impression on Glen, the Catholic priest who has lost his
faith. And the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has decided to
respond to the smash-hit Broadway musical The Book of Mormon (written and
directed by the creators of South Park) by running an advertisement in the
show's program, a wise concession to the obvious new truth: There is no effective
way to reassert the traditional privilege of religions not to be treated satirically
and critically. It is worth noting that the underlying problem also besets the best-intentioned
news media: Should they broadcast a story about some evil hoax or urban legend sweeping
the Internet? Won't exposing it have the unintended effect of rendering it more
credible to many viewers who may not even have encountered it?
Why might a television cartoon be a more potent faith-breaker
than a carefully argued book? There are many obvious reasons, but one that has not
been sufficiently understood is the role of mutual knowledge. Whenever you
read a book, there is bound to be, somewhere in the back of your mind, a sense of
the many others who have read or will read it. Pulling a book from a library shelf
and seeing by the slip pasted in the back that only one other person before you
has ever checked it out has quite a different effect from seeing a long list of
prior readers: The book instantly becomes more potent, in ways seldom reflected
upon. Is the book now more authoritative, just because others have read it? No,
not necessarily, but it can be seen to have been a bit more influential than the
average book. It has attracted attention. Perhaps the book has been popular, unduly
popular, with readers for bad reasons; perhaps it is notorious, not celebrated;
but still, you are not the only person to have read at least some of the sentences
in this book. You are not an audience of one. Why do advertisers pay such extraordinary
amounts for twenty or thirty seconds on the Super Bowl? Because they know that hundreds
of millions of people will be watching and will themselves know that hundreds
of millions of people are watching and will know that these hundreds of millions
will also know that hundreds of millions are watching. That is a spectacular
amount of mutual knowledge, and it pays off in heightened credibility.
How so? Well, would you pay millions for an advertisement and
then make claims in your ad that could be scrutinized for falsehood by hundreds
of millions of potential whistle-blowers? What someone is willing to say "in public"
has always had this added credibility, for good reason, and the electronic media
permit the public arenas to be multiplied by many orders of magnitude. People don't
need to reason it out explicitly; they can just find themselves being particularly
impressed by what is said in public. This is a simple example of the reasons that
can lie behind a practice that becomes popular and eventually traditional.
Nobody has to have theorized explicitly about the added value of a public pronouncement
in which mutual knowledge is maximized; once its success is noted, it will be copied
and its success confirmed.
Imagine you're a Catholic watching the South Park episode
on Catholicism. The fact that it makes your religion look ridiculous is bad enough,
but that fact is multiplied by your realization that millions of people are laughing
and those millions know that millions are laughing. Your religion is in danger of
becoming a standing joke! How does the isolated viewer know that millions are not
just watching but laughing? Because this is commercial television; if the program
were too offensive, too obnoxious, it wouldn't be broadcast (note that this is manifestly
not the case with Web sites). Apparently, your neighbors don't just tolerate
this denigration of the tenets and practices of your religion; they may well enjoy
it.
A television documentary provides another telling moment. Sherm,
the Orthodox rabbi, recalled watching a conversation between Richard Dawkins and
the Nobel laureate physicist Steven Weinberg, in which Weinberg mentioned
that he had a friend who was an Orthodox Jew and an atheist. This, in a way, gave
Sherm permission to be an atheist. He wouldn't be alone—there were some really smart
Orthodox Jews (friends of Nobel laureates!) who managed to be atheists. And now
the world knew this—they talked about it on television, after all. It was an open
secret.
Religions aren't the only institutions facing novel problems
of maintaining their membranes, their metabolisms, their very lives, in the face
of the challenging new environment into which we are thrust. The transparency of
information engendered by electronic media has dramatically changed the epistemological
environment—the environment of knowledge, belief, error, illusion, confidence—that
we all inhabit. It threatens the security and stability of all institutions that
depend on confidence and trust—which includes, besides religions, such disparate
entities as newspapers, banks, hospitals, universities, and governments. If a reliable
source of information loses its reputation for telling the truth, it may be out
of business, no matter how scrupulously it checks the facts it promulgates. So a
new arms race ensues, dealing in the manipulation of reputations for truth-telling,
and its campaigns can be detected on all sides. Al Jazeera has an excellent and
deserved reputation in most of the world outside the United States for truthful
reporting. Will its recent acquisition of Al Gore's news Web site finally secure
Al Jazeera's respectability in this country, or will it damage Gore's reputation?
Time Magazine continues its print edition in the United States, whereas
Newsweek abandoned its U.S. edition in 2012 and that edition now exists
solely on the Web. In recent decades, both magazines tried bolstering sales by running
favorable cover stories on religious topics: the Shroud of Turin, the Dead Sea Scrolls,
the Gnostic Gospels, new interpretations of putative relics and archeological discoveries.
They clearly saw the security of religious institutions as a possible lifeboat to
cling to, but in retrospect it is not obvious that the choice was wise.
Oxford zoologist Andrew Parker has proposed, in his 2003 book
In the Blink of an Eye, that the Cambrian Explosion of novel life-forms that
occurred some 540 million years ago was triggered by a change in the chemistry of
the atmosphere or the seas or both—a change that increased the transparency of these
media, letting much more sunlight in, making vision possible for the first time.
Suddenly it paid to have eyesight, with which to see your prey or your predators
in the offing, and as eyes evolved so did all the devices and tactics that eyes
enable. The result was an arms race of new ways of hiding and seeking, locomoting,
and defending oneself that drove evolution into one of its most innovative and revolutionary
periods. My suggestion is that we are entering just such an arms race today, thanks
to the cultural evolution of all the new ways of obtaining and distributing information—and
misinformation. Old tactics and defenses no longer suffice, and whoever doesn't
redesign in a hurry is doomed to extinction.
Religion has changed more in the last century than in the previous
millennium, and I predict that it will change more in the next twenty years than
it did in the last century, for just this reason. The old ways, the traditional
ways, no longer work in the new world of universal transparency. Faced with these
changing conditions, institutions will either have to learn how to live with the
greater transparency or how to shield themselves from it—going underground, in effect.
As usual, those who guess wrong will soon be defunct. Our study participants are
the canaries in the coal mine, sensitive harbingers of things to come. Consider
the experiences they report as having contributed to the shaking or evaporation
of their faith. Here are a few examples.
The story of Noah's Ark is a favorite Sunday school staple, for
obvious reasons. It invites art projects and—except in creationist churches—provides
a nicely indirect and innocuous way of introducing the idea that the Bible contains
myths (without challenging any of the myths of Christianity). But for Tammie, a
Methodist pastor, observing the Sunday school presentation of Noah's Ark became
a particularly eye-opening moment, for she realized for the first time how depraved
the story is.
They did a few weeks on Noah's Ark. . . . They did this
little sand art thing, and just pictures for me to put on my wall, you know, as
little kids will do. And I thought to myself, "How horrible is it to teach a child
about a God who would save eight people and then destroy the rest of the world?"
Of course, as kids, we don't see it that way—we focus on the boat and the animals
and the rainbow. But if you really think about it, it's a horrible story. It's worse
than any horror picture out there. That makes God worse than Hitler.
Why did this perspective occur to Tammie? The story of Noah's
Ark has been taught to children for centuries, but a new sensibility about genocide,
about ethnic cleansing, is now much more apt to intrude on one's reflections than
in earlier times.
The people at Disney face the problem of what to do with the
vault of Disney classics that were innocent and charming only forty or fifty years
ago but now make us uncomfortable. Are the Indians—excuse me, Native Americans—in
Peter Pan acceptable, or racist stereotypes? What about the African Americans
in Song of the South? Or (one of my all-time favorites) the jiving black
crows in Dumbo, who sing about seeing an elephant fly? I find the parallel
between embarrassing Bible stories and no-longer-presentable Disney films personally
enlightening, since I remember how much I loved the Disney films as a child (and
still do), and hence how mixed my emotions are today as I applaud, on the one hand,
the progress we've made while deeply regretting that one price of that progress
is the tarnishing of the treasures of my youth. I feel a touch of shame when I recall
how oblivious I was to the racism in those movies—but then I reject that guilt;
I was responding naturally and naïvely,
as children do, to what is presented to them as benign by their elders. But then
it occurs to me that I was enlisted, subliminally, in a bland conspiracy of prejudice—which
I might resent, were it not for the reflection that the enlisters were in the main
as innocent as I was. It was nobody's fault and everybody's fault, and now there
is no turning back—no honest, innocent way of maintaining a pristine regard for
the movies one has loved.
These mixed emotions assault many Christians when their attention
is drawn in adulthood to Bible stories they learned to love as children. Pastors
can't retire half the Bible to the vault, available for scholarly study but never
again accessible to the general public, much as they might like to. They can only
hope that benign neglect of those verses in the weekly Scripture reading and in
Sunday school will allow the offending passages to recede into obscurity. But too
many of the tales are too famous, too ubiquitous in world culture, to retire gracefully.
For literalists, for whom the Bible must be avowed to be the inerrant word of God,
this is a particularly vexing problem, a trap with no escape route. They may recoil
in anguish from the prospect of denying their love of those verses, seeing it as
a betrayal of their heritage, but they can no longer claim unaltered respect
for and belief in them with a clear conscience. They may compartmentalize, trying
to isolate their faith from their worldly knowledge, but at some level they know
it is loyalty now, and not conviction, that evokes their professions of faith.
This phenomenon complicates the task of seminary professors.
Winnie the Presbyterian recalls her professor giving the class some friendly advice
about how to discuss the Virgin Mary.
He said, "With Presbyterians right now [in the 1980s], the Virgin
Birth is a really hot topic. And when you go out and interview with a church, you're
probably going to be asked a question of what does it mean. So here's your answer:
It's not a question of Mary's sexuality, it's a question of God's initiative—whom
God chooses to do God's work in the world. God picks the weak and the foolish, not
who you'd think would be picked. So someone like Mary, who normally would be stoned
to death, is actually someone [to whom] God said, "Nope, you get to carry the Son
of God." I thought, "Cool! Got that one!" And I used it in interviews, and it worked.
People liked it when I told them that, because they'd struggled with that for years.
Then she added, "His assumption was that none of us assumed
this is literal. To make that kind of statement to a theology class. And nobody
raised their hand and said, 'No, you're wrong.' All of us were, like,
'Oh, good answer!' " One wonders: Weren't any of the students shocked
by this tacit presupposition? Or had they all been initiated already, without ceremony
or explicit acknowledgment, into the inner sanctum, the club of loyalists whose
mission is to maintain the flock's allegiance to the traditional liturgy?
Every professor in every field is beset by the problem of having
to adopt unexamined presuppositions in order to get on with the teaching, but seminary
professors face an acute form of this quandary. If they are too candid too early,
they risk alienating their students, so they are well advised to save the
inside dope until the class is ready for it, but this requires them to be less than
honest at the outset.
Movies like Bill Maher's Religulous and Monty Python's
Life of Brian have a way of insinuating themselves under the skin of the
curious faithful who dare to go to them—not surprisingly. But, ironically, some
of the books intended to shore up flagging loyalty by offering new avenues for the
expression of faith can inadvertently undermine it. A prominent series of video
study guides, Living the Questions, may work well for many parishioners,
but according to our pastors it can also shine a little too much daylight on the
details. For instance, Carl the Lutheran pastor watched the programs himself and
decided some of his flock couldn't handle them. Bart Ehrman's books are eye-opening
surveys of Biblical scholarship and church history, not intended to subvert faith
but having that effect on some pastors and churchgoers. Then there are the respectful
books by liberal journalists who are acceptably polite and apparently supportive
of religion. These are some of the most corrosive items in the environment, as the
fundamentalists recognize. Robert Wright's The Evolution of God and
Nicholas Wade's The Faith Instinct are by journalists who are part of the
"I am an atheist, but. . ." brigade, and they sometimes have the effect of hastening
the evaporation of the last traces of conviction. With friends like these, who needs
Dawkins and Hitchens and Harris?
It's not just that the current information environment has a
broad spectrum of content explicitly inimical to religion: Even without it, the
sheer accessibility of factual information on all aspects of the history and internal
workings of religion endangers institutional creeds as never before. Just discovering,
in a newspaper article, that most Christians don't believe in Hell can be unsettling,
and, as Harry, the ex-Lutheran pastor, recounts, so can trying to explain
the Trinity to foreign students who just don't get it.
. . . I remember trying to explain the Trinity in both
languages, and then getting through my explanation and just looking at these blank
stares and then finally getting a lot of pushback from them, saying "This makes
no sense at all." And rather than agreeing with them, I remember trying to find
other ways to explain the Trinity in a way that might make sense. But that was a
seed that was planted a long time ago that kind of stuck with me, and I think maybe
festered in a way; little things like that.
Tony, the ex-Catholic priest, was astonished to learn
about Protestants in public high school: "I thought everyone who wasn't Catholic
was Jewish, because that's the only other religion in the Bible." It is unlikely
that young Catholics today can still grow up so sheltered.
The factual stew is growing and growing, and our study is doubtless
adding to it. In today's world, studies like this must be accepted. They are perhaps
radical, but they are not pornographic, treasonous, or violent. Their
intent is to inform, not destroy. Churches must learn to live in a world where
such discussions are rife, or they will go extinct.




[1]
For more on this, see Dennett, "The Social Cell: What Do Debutante Balls, the
Japanese Tea Ceremony, Ponzi Schemes and Doubting Clergy All Have in Common?" New
Statesman, April 13, 2012. 


[2]
See Dennett, Darwin's Dangerous Idea: Evolution and the Meanings of Life
(New York: Simon & Schuster, 1995) 


[3]
Words by Sam M. Lewis and Joe Young, music by Walter Donaldson. Published 1919,
by Waterson, Berlin & Snyder Co., Music Publishing. 










IV. From the Ivory Tower to the People in the Pews
Daniel C. Dennett and Linda LaScola
10. Three Seminary Professors
"I tell them I think the Bible is the word of humans about
their experiences with God. Those who can think can then realize that's perhaps
not exactly the same as saying it is the word of God."
—Beatrice, seminary professor
This formulation nicely captures the tension of the encounter
between the professor and seminary students in their first-year course on the Old
Testament. Beatrice breaks the news gently: "Those who can think" will read between
the lines, and any who can't think will not notice the difference. The message still
comes as a shock to many of her devout but naïve students. Beatrice, who was educated
abroad, says, "I think I am a Christian. I believe in God." Apparently her experience
in the United States has made her wonder, and she resents being forced by
U.S. churches to be the bearer of bad tidings, a revelation that caught her off
guard in her first semester of teaching
these unpleasant truths. For some it's unpleasant—like [the fact
that] Adam and Eve did not really live. I did not think anybody could think that
they really lived and ran around in Paradise—I just couldn't have imagined that.
So by now I've learned to be a bit more careful, just enough not to hurt people's
feelings and take them a bit more slowly into this new way of looking at the Bible.
She herself attends a liberal Protestant church and is bothered
by the way every Scripture reading is prefaced with, "Listen to the word of God."
I think the Church is to blame a bit for the confusion the students
have to go through, in that it does not make clearer that the Bible is a
human document.
Beatrice is a scholar, steeped in the painstaking critical
analysis of the texts and aware of the centuries of creative and political turmoil
that went into the editing of that anthology we now count as the Bible. "I think
it's much more exciting to see these differences—for example, contradictions in
the Bible," she says. But many of her students are threatened, not fascinated, by
these discoveries, and her enthusiasm is met by resistance, a problem she faces
with a mixture of frustration and sympathy.
Beatrice is one of the three seminary professors included in
our study. As noted in the Introduction, we had no precise way of assessing what
self-selection bias went into our small sample, but since the three who were interviewed
provided strikingly different perspectives on how they handled student dismay, it's
safe to say that their experiences are not unfamiliar phenomena in seminaries.
Portia, too, teaches Old Testament to first-year students at
a seminary that takes in students from a variety of Protestant denominations,
ranging from Unitarian Universalist to Pentecostal. She has come to recognize
"that shell-shocked look I get, maybe, in those first two weeks of class," and notes
that quite apart from anything she might say to them, their discovery of
the sheer diversity of creeds among their fellow incoming students is often a rude
awakening.
Many students in their first semesters are actually shocked to
learn that not all Christians believe that God sent Jesus to Earth to die for their
sins. Although that is one common belief within the Christian church, it's not necessarily.
. . the norm for all Christians.
Matthew has a somewhat easier diplomatic task than Beatrice
and Portia, since he teaches New Testament to second-year students, mostly of mainline
Protestant denominations. Still, although they've survived their first year, they
are often upset by what he teaches them, and part of his reaction to their continuing
naïveté is to seek refuge in
the perspectives of postmodernism.
As children of the Enlightenment, they tend to regard texts as
valuable insofar as they speak about the truth.
His students still believe in truth and falsity and haven't
yet learned to appreciate the sophisticated framings by which deconstructionism
can evade those challenging judgments and transform troublesome text into a soothing
miasma of metaphor and myth, since different contexts make for different messages.
All three professors in their different ways acknowledge
that their seminaries face difficult times, in keeping with national trends. Seminaries
that used to receive more than three-quarters of their total operating costs from
their denominations now receive, on average, less than half. Enrollments are down
for younger students, so that today's trained seminarians emerge considerably older
than their predecessors and hence will have shorter pastoral careers.[1]
After years of steady decline, enrollments nationally seem to have leveled off,
or even increased slightly, but given the current economic situation, more students
are relegated to online courses or evening classes after work at the seminary nearest
their home, instead of attending—and living at—a seminary run by their own denomination.
A delicate task confronts the professors: Their students arrive
at seminary with their heads buzzing with fervent aspirations and unrealistic expectations,
and it falls to the faculty to bring them down. gently but firmly. Says Beatrice:
Many of our students coming to the class think the Bible is true—for
example, that the five books of Moses, the Pentateuch, are written by Moses, and
the prophetical books are written by the prophets. Then, they have ideas about inspiration.
Somehow, they think, it all comes directly from God. Most of them don't seem to
have thought through exactly what they think. Many of them grew up with the
biblical stories in church as if all these stories happened as they were told. .
. . And then the historical/critical method tells them that's not the case: These
writings were written in time, and by many different authors, and the story of Adam
and Eve is a myth and didn't happen like that.
Not surprisingly, the students are upset.
They really struggle with that, because some of them then think
everything they believed was wrong. The first reaction of many is to reject what
I teach. They don't like what I teach [laughs]. Different people react differently—it
depends very much on their upbringing. Some of them reject what I say, and they
close their ears and don't listen. More of them try to integrate it somehow. . .
. They play cheap tricks in order to try to harmonize these [revelations] differently.
And just like that, many of these students take their first
steps into the world of systematic hypocrisy that will surround them for the rest
of their career in the clergy. What else can they do? Abandon their dreams on the
spot? Hardly possible; first, they decide they must reserve judgment until they
are sure. (Imagine arriving at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry and finding
yourself enrolled in Introductory Card Magic: Sleight-of-hand and Marked Cards.
"They must just be testing me," you think. "The good stuff will come later. I'll
hang in there and see.")
It appears that the students don't have to be warned about not
divulging what they're being taught. Portia notes that a common immediate reaction
of her students to all this new information is to declare that they will have to
keep it a secret. They do this spontaneously, from the best of motives: to protect
somebody they love and admire. She puts it this way:
When you inform a student that David didn't write that psalm,
you're not just raising a question about the authorship of the psalm, you're challenging
somebody's grandmother. . . . or you're challenging a pastor who may have been extremely
influential to a person. . . . So, especially within the first year or so, there's
a great deal of almost this sense of secrecy—that "I can't share this with people
in my congregation. They can't handle it."
Self-initiation into the secret society comes naturally under
those circumstances, but Portia tries to use this reaction to get her students to
reflect.
Well, that is kind of my role. . . . I try to do it somewhat pastorally
too. . . . If you can find what the good news is in it for yourself and share what's
liberating about it, what's useful about it, then most people in congregations,
more people in congregations, are willing to hear it . . . . So, often I suggest
to students that they've skipped a step by worrying about how they're going to share
it with other people. They haven't taken the time to figure out what it means to
their own faith. A lot of our students are so caretaking that they can actually
hide behind other people and fail to own up to how disturbing it is to them. They'll
say, "Oh, other people will be upset about this." "Well, did it upset you? Why?
Why not? What does that mean for you?"
But does this work? Do her students pause to consider this
carefully, or do they leave the question unconsidered and unanswered? Sometimes
their circumstances make examination a luxury they cannot afford. Consider this
heartbreaking case recounted by Portia.
The lawyer who grew up, let's say, in a secular setting, finds
a church, becomes very involved, decides she wants to work within the Church. Gives
up the law practice, sells the house, . . . leaves the kids, and then begins to
learn things that are different from what led her to leave her law practice in the
first place. And now she's got a spouse and kids. . . . So it's hard for her to
feel like she's got the freedom to explore diverse possibilities, because it's late
in life. "I don't have much time. I need to get on with my training, and
I need to get on with what I'm called to do."
Couldn't churches and seminaries find ways of giving an early
warning to would-be seminarians in order to prevent such untimely disillusionment?
Perhaps, but that only displaces the problem instead of solving it, as is shown
by another painful case, recalled by Beatrice. In her first year, she taught a demonstration
class for prospective students, to show them what seminary would be like.
I chose that topic [the Book of Esther] on purpose, because I
thought, "That is a book nobody cares about very much, and if I introduce
them to the idea that it's not historically true or did not happen like that"—there
was never a Queen Esther—"it will not upset anybody very much." We know that, because
we know a lot about these Persian kings. We know all their wives' names, and there
was no Esther, ever. So we're pretty sure nothing like that happened. So I thought
I'd choose this story and then talk about how I think we can still look at these
books and think about the theology they express. We had a big circle, with all these
prospective students I didn't know, and I told them that this story never took place
like that, but that is not the end point; we have to look at the texts, they are
still valuable. . . . But afterwards a young woman, one of the prospective students,
told me that the moment when I told her there was never a Queen Esther, her whole
world broke down.
Liberal denominations don't often create this problem, since
their Sunday schools tend to teach the Bible stories as wonderful stories, not necessarily
as true stories. As long as conservative denominations persist in teaching the Bible
as literal truth, they are playing a game of chicken with the minds of their young
proselytes. It solves a short-term problem by laying down an easy rule to remember:
Every statement in the Bible is literally true. And the challenge this poses for
some young believers is usefully bracing; they revel in what they take to be their
creedal athleticism. But what will it yield when an authority figure—a professor
at seminary, a pastor in a different denomination, a biologist on television talking
about 3-billion-plus years of life on Earth—calmly, matter-of-factly denies one
of the unassailable truths they have been taught? Some have the temperament to hang
on to their convictions resolutely. As Matthew notes:
Some of them compartmentalize: "OK, I'll play the academic game
so I get the degree, but I'll keep it in a safe compartment. I'll play the game
as a game. But deep down, I'm going to be fundamentally the same kind of deeply
conservative, perhaps even fundamentalist, believer as my people."
There do not seem to be any stable intermediate positions
between defiant inerrantism on the one hand and, on the other, the sort of interpretation
and appreciation of the Bible as literature which is available to any atheist. Portia
discusses how hard it is for her students to get comfortable with an intermediate
position:
That takes a lot of practice, so it's not surprising that people
leave seminary not fully excellent at it. That's why we really focus on "You've
got to get continuing education, and you have to have support groups and peer groups."
She envies the ease with which more conservative Christians
can get their message out.
This is just a hunch, and I can't prove it whatsoever, but I think
what's happened in the last twenty years in the United States is that fewer and
fewer diverse Christian voices are making it into the media. And that the religious
right has been extremely successful in getting a lot of press. What's happened is
that believing and nonbelieving persons think the religious right speaks for all
of Christianity. So I think it's harder than it was even twenty years ago to talk
about, and even Christians can't agree on what "God" means. I do protest when they
assume that the religious right is Christianity and liberal Christians are just
a little footnote.
Liberal Christians have no difficulty saying what they don't
(any longer) believe, but they find it hard to express a positive version of their
message that can compete with the forthright, even defiant, claims of the literals.
When asked whether her students believe in a supernatural God, Portia's difficulty
with the question is more expressive than her actual words:
That's not always a question I ask students. So the truth is,
it's hard for me to know for sure the question you're asking. What I do believe,
though, is they haven't moved from yes to no, or no to yes—that there's a lot of
movement within their definition of what God is. So that's really why my question
for you was, "Will this study interpret anything that's 'differently believing'
as nonbelieving?" Or it might not look like the way they believed when they were
seven or even twenty-five. So, how many go from no to yes, or from yes to no? I
think that that's far less the case than more open-endedness and more diversity.
. . . I think part of the reason they struggle so much is that they probably still
don't have good language for what they do believe, so all they know to talk about
is what they no longer believe. So you'll get students who say, "Well, I don't believe
God's the big father in the sky." OK, great, fine: What do you believe about
God? And I think that's [pause] ---The seminary tries to work on that, but I think
if we fail them somewhere, it's probably there. It's not that they don't believe,
but they're not leaving with good enough alternative language to express what they
do believe. So what it comes across as is, "Well, I don't believe that anymore,
and I don't believe that anymore. I don't believe the Bible is the literal
word of God." Well, OK, fine: What do you believe about the Bible? And often
when students say, "Well, I'm not sure if I believe in Jesus anymore." Believe what
about Jesus? You don't believe Jesus was a human being? You don't believe that Jesus
died for your sins? You don't believe that Jesus was a model to follow for human
example? I think also what students are aware of is that what they used to believe,
they no longer believe—that they're not as articulate yet in affirming what they
do believe. And most of them—I believe this—most of them actually still believe
in God, still have a place for Jesus in their understanding, but they don't have
good language. They don't have good. positive language.
She is confident that her students are wrong when they claim
that nobody in their home congregations believes what they now believe.
I hear this all the time: "Everybody in my congregation believes
that; I'm the only one [who doesn't]. And how can I go to them and say I don't believe
that?" Well, I can just guarantee that that's not true. Not everybody in a congregation
believes the same thing . . . . I teach in churches some on the weekends, and preach.
And often I'll go to larger Protestant denominations, where people can pay
me to come. So I'll get a really intelligent adult who'll come to me after and explain
to me that they don't really fit in here because they don't believe what everyone
else does. Then the next person in line will tell me that same thing. And then the
next person will say the same thing. And I think you're right: I think people are
scared of having the conversation. because nobody wants to be left out, especially
out of a voluntary group.
From Matthew we get some first-hand glimpses of the interface
between academic theologians and the more straightforward creeds of many would-be
pastors.
What I try to do when I introduce the historical/critical method
is to emphasize the difference in the social setting between the rules for reading
in the church and the rules for reading in the academy. Identifying those different
social contexts helps the students make the transition, so that they don't think
they're being asked to learn a new set of dogmas that replace those that they use
in the church.
What does Matthew advise his students to do about negotiating
the passage between these two different contexts? He tells them what they shouldn't
do: use the pulpit for instruction.
But what I think is important in principle is that the pulpit
is the least important place where teaching should take place. Preaching is much
more about ethos and pathos arguments than it is about logos.
. . . So that your sermon doesn't become the place of introducing strange concepts
to the congregation—very bad teaching method.
Should the young pastor then try to make it clear to the congregation
that no truth claims are being made from the pulpit? I don't think that would work.
If you were to announce the context in advance, you'd lose the sought-for effect.
Preaching is a kind of theater, and just as actors strive to get you so involved
in their words and deeds that you forget you're watching a play, preachers shun
any expressions that might remind you of the hypothesis that they are purveyors
of traditional metaphors—symbol-slingers, not teachers. If you tell the congregation
that it is ethos and pathos, you lose them.
Like Portia, Matthew understands that when his students
leave the seminary they are far from expert in the art of speaking in the special
nonacademic style one should adopt in the pulpit. And like her, he has no
quick fixes to propose.
When I use the term, "a little bit of knowledge," I mean it quite
seriously. I mean, they learn enough to be able to use phrases and mouth slogans
and, you know, play around with ideas. But they don't have the depth of learning
to communicate to others what's really of value to them. . . . And that depth of
knowledge, which we often think of as genius, is simply the capacity to have control
over a huge amount of data and find the simplest route to expressing it, whereas
people who are undereducated are manipulating sets of concepts that they don't fully
understand in their actual relationships. So they mouth views, but they don't really
grasp it themselves at a deeper level.
Linda: This is what I've gathered—that they don't know
what to do with the knowledge they have. They may understand it, but they can't
imagine going back to their congregations and talking with people about that, because
they don't think it will go down well.
Matthew: But that's exactly what I'm trying to suggest—that
the difference between my students and me . . . is not only that I'm older, it's
that I've worked at this field long enough that I don't have to couch it in jargon.
Remember I talked earlier about being an honest broker? I can teach about these
things as simple metaphors, comparisons, analogies, common sense. Here's how the
world works; think about your grandma. And it's highly sophisticated. It's the social
construction of reality. I can go on and on about the theoretical bases of this—but
what makes a good teacher, and a good preacher, is the capacity to take complex
issues and render them simply. And they don't know how. That's why they're ill educated;
they simply don't have the depth of knowledge to be able to speak.
So I'll give you an example! They've studied the Gospels with
somebody and they've learned that Jesus spoke in parables but that the parables
are very complicated and he may or may not have actually said this parable. They've
read three books on this subject. And they get up in the pulpit, and they rehearse
this infinite regress before they ever can say how simple this parable really is.
So they're half-baked intellectuals, if you will. And that's what creates this anguish.
Linda: Let's say I was a good student. I got class time
with all the best professors, and I'm mature, and I go into this congregation. I'm
a good speaker, I'm a compassionate person. What do I do?
Matthew: I will say it's tremendously varied. There are
churches that would be eager as all get-out to hear what you had to say. If you
were in a UCC [United Church of Christ] congregation, if you were in a Presbyterian
congregation, if you were in an Episcopal congregation, you're not going to find
the problem. They're hungry for educated pastors, they love them. But—
Linda: Let me stop you a minute. They may be hungry for
an educated pastor, but they may not be hungry for some of the information
the pastor has.
Linda then asks him what she should do in that circumstance.
What's an "honest broker" to do? Should she give them what they want, even
if it means dissembling, and then do the innovative work away from the pulpit? Is
the answer in adult education, Sunday school, seminars, conferences? If so, then
what should she say from the pulpit?
But Matthew has no advice on that point. He is better on problems
than solutions. He sees and deplores the "infantile" faiths of many churchgoers
and even some of his students, but he does not articulate his "mature" faith, beyond
saying that "ambiguity is the sign of mature faith."
Linda: OK, faith in what?
Matthew: In God.
Linda: And what is God? I know that's another huge question.
Matthew: But I can answer it. For me, God is the source
of everything that exists, and the goal toward which everything that exists is directed.
It's not an object among other objects; it's not thematic; it's not —. As
Augustine said, if you can think it, it's not God.
Linda: What does that have to do with Christianity and
Scriptures?
To which Matthew responds:
Here's what it has to do with Scriptures and Christianity. In
the 13th century, Aquinas, among others, developed a very sophisticated
epistemology, a theory of knowledge with regard to things divine, and it said authentic
theology has to be dialectical in character. It has to have three dialectical moments:
The first is the moment of affirmation; this is what we'll see in Scripture. It
tells stories, it gives commandments, it says that God is angry, God is loving,
God is this, God is that. And there's a certain simple, mystic appropriateness to
that language. We can't do without it—"Your mama loves you." But, said Aquinas,
following Pseudo-Dionysius, to speak only at that level is to make an idol of God;
it's to identify God with our own concept; it's to be incredibly intellectually
immature. So the second moment of the dialectic is called the negative way; it is
to deny the proposition. The Scripture says, "God is good." The first thing the
theologian has to say is, "God is not good"—just like Christopher Hitchens says,
"God is not good." And why? Because whatever God is, God can't be good the way that
your mama is good. So, the third moment of the dialectic is called the analogical
way, so that in analogy, points of similarities are found within points of greater
dissimilarity. So that one says goodness is to God and goodness is to your mama,
but you recognize that you're talking about something totally different.
It's hard to imagine what a congregation would make of any
of that. Matthew's primary mission as a seminary professor, supposedly, is
to prepare his students for the role of pastor, including their role in the pulpit,
but he has no detailed advice on how to address "infantile" congregations as an
"honest broker."
Portia puts the problem differently, and starkly, saying of her
graduates, "Most of them actually still believe in God"—hardly a ringing endorsement
of her seminary's success with its primary mission. You might expect that
if this is a widespread pattern, religious leaders would be bent on examining it
and considering reforms to alleviate it. One way would be to drop the requirement
of seminary training for pastors altogether, and this has been a growing trend among
conservative churches. But the problem of how to meld "mature" and "infantile" faiths
gracefully almost never gets mentioned. The oft-cited 2008 Alban Institute study,
Becoming a Pastor: Reflections on the Transition into Ministry, discusses
the results of an ambitious "Transition into Ministry" program involving hundreds
of Protestant seminary students moving into the profession.[2]
Presumably this study was initiated and funded because of perceived shortcomings
in the current practices of preparing people for their roles in the clergy, and
while it goes on at length about the importance of mentoring once the novice pastor
gets out of seminary, it doesn't mention the problem of an awkward mismatch between
seminarians' newly developed beliefs and those of the congregations they hope to
lead. Why the silence? This "dirty little secret," as one pastor put it, cannot
be openly discussed, because—in the minds of most people who know about it—it
would exacerbate the problem by having a devastating effect on everybody's morale.
This is not an unusual phenomenon in institutions, from corporations
to the military. For instance, colleges with declining enrollments or SAT scores
or acceptance rates tend not to publicize those ominous trends for fear of accelerating
them. Portia closes her interview by saying that the question on her mind—a question
she would like to put to her students—is, "Are they really sure they can't talk
honestly?" Probably they are not really sure, but they don't dare commit themselves
to the experiment. Unlike Portia, who has a measure of job security in the seminary,
their fates hang on the opinions of congregations who may, for all they know, be
full of folks who share their beliefs but are themselves unwilling to stick their
necks out.
11. What Happens in Seminary: The Students' Perspective
Until the advent of the Internet, objective information about
religion was hard to come by except in higher education, where students specifically
interested in religion, and perhaps wanting to make it a career, took courses in
it. Most of us learned about religion from our families. We were indoctrinated.
We went to the religious services that our families took us to as children, where
we were taught to believe in a particular creed and eschew others. We were aware
of other religions, and in many cases we had been taught to respect other people's
beliefs, but we were not expected to share them. Times have changed. The
huge amount of information available on the Internet has enabled people to learn
about many subjects, including religion. Instead of being limited to the stories
and doctrine heard from family and clergy, people can easily learn the facts and
history of many diverse religions on their own.
Students who enter seminary, like any students who have committed
time and tuition payments to specialized, master's-level education, are strongly
motivated to complete their studies and succeed in their chosen fields. Like all
serious scholars, seminary students have a thirst for knowledge and a desire to
apply it properly. Most graduate students hope for ultimate financial security
and some measure of respect from their community. Seminary students hope for
that and more—a special place in society. They will be addressed as "Reverend"
or "Father" or "Rabbi"; they will be perceived—among people who share their beliefs
and even among some who do not—as representatives of God's word on Earth. They take
their studies seriously, hoping to use their advanced knowledge to carry out their
work. However, as we saw in the previous section, there are surprises in store for
those incoming students who expect that their faith will be deepened, and
for those graduates who expect that flocks will appreciate their wisdom.
We found, among our interviewees, four more-or-less distinct
reactions, in varying degrees, to the seminary experience:
(1) Fascination with and enthusiasm for the religious knowledge
and insights they were gaining;
(2) a deeply troubled sense upon exposure to the ambiguities and
complexities of religious history and thought;
(3) a recognition of the seeds of doubt that would trouble
them later in their careers; and
(4) an emphasis on diligence in pursuing their coursework,
without much analysis or judgment.
Fascinated Seminarians
Tony, the former Catholic priest; Caitlin, an Episcopal priest;
and Darryl, a Presbyterian pastor, all exemplified, in their seminary years,
those students who thoroughly enjoy and appreciate the experience. Tony was
especially enthusiastic.
Oh, I was fascinated! I love to learn, and learning all this stuff—it
was incredible! This academic approach—it all started to make sense to me, because
all these black-and-white arguments never seemed right to me. "Do it because God
told you to." How did God tell me to do this, you know? But learning about it like
it was scientific—using the historical/critical method, or semantics and the hermeneutical
approaches we were using—it was just fascinating and stimulating to me. And it felt
very real to me, because we're putting all this time and effort into it, using our
logic and our rationality.
That's how I was trained. You've got to go back and understand
not only how the Scripture, the teaching, was formed but what it meant, in the time,
for the people, and what the Church was trying to say at that time, and . . . how
it was supposed to be used for those people, in that time. You can find how to say
how it's supposed to be used. You can draw the parallel today. I learned that from
my professors.
Caitlin had a similar gratifying experience while studying
for the Episcopal priesthood. She recalled how much she enjoyed learning about and
analyzing the formation of the early Church.
In seminary, we were given license to pick apart things, with
critical and traditional historical criticism. We could see how the Babylonian influence,
and how the Judaic influence, and how the early Christian influence, and then the
Constantinian influence, shaped Christianity. And then the early Middle Ages, with
the Roman Church and the Celtic branch. We were allowed to tease that apart.
She was also open to a metaphorical understanding of the Resurrection.
Oh, I think there was no doubt in my seminary that all of us believed
in the Resurrection. And whether we believed in an actual, physical, body Resurrection—we
fell along a spectrum of that.
It didn't have to be true factually for me. I embraced it because
it could be—it could have been—like that. And the mystery of it was— I loved the
mystery of it! Sure, I think it could happen. Would I have been a person of non-faith
if I didn't believe that it happened? No, I wouldn't. I would still be that person
embracing the possibilities that it could have happened. So I think maybe I'd call
myself a Christian person embracing the possibilities more than the factualities.
I could work with that.
Darryl, who participated in our 2010 pilot study, spoke about
how his Presbyterian seminary classes "blew open" Christian doctrine for him.
In seminary, it wasn't black and white, it was plaid, polka-dot—there
was just such a variety of thought that went in every different kind of direction.
Deeply Troubled Seminarians
Others reacted negatively to academic religion. Stan, who
became a Disciples of Christ military chaplain, got off to a rough start in his
Christian college, even before entering seminary.
The school I went to was affiliated with a Pentecostal faith group,
yet our professors taught us textual criticism, how the Bible was formed. So, yes,
that came as quite a shock. I can remember taking one of the introductory classes
and thinking, "Wow, this is not at all what I thought it would be!" At first it
felt very threatening. I felt very angry—this is what I've always heard about so-called
liberal theologians and denominations. And then after a while I really wanted to
embrace it, because I thought, "Gee, this is genuinely how it came to be. This is
based in history, literature, and archaeology." It was the first time I felt that
the myth I'd been told from childhood was shattered. It was the time I realized
that there was a feeling of a shift from a literal understanding.
Stan considered changing his major at that point, but instead
he continued his studies, because he figured he could "compartmentalize what I was
learning in class, if I had more faith," or that he could become a professor instead
of a pastor. Once in seminary, he was exposed to further factual information about
religion.
Now, the seminary I attended was pretty conservative, but we still
learned textual criticism and the way the Bible was put together. We still learned
what the academy taught. So even at this very, very, very conservative seminary,
it was almost like the seeds of rational truth were still being sown.
During a seminary internship, he found his niche in
the field of hospital chaplaincy.
Spending one year in a hospital, it became clear to me that this
was something that was unique—meeting people in a hospital. And that's where I began
to see that I'd rather stick with this than be in a church.
He suspects that other skeptical seminarians have followed
a path similar to his—away from church assignments and toward more liberal denominations.
I think there are a lot of people like me. I haven't really met
anyone in the military to have these conversations with as a chaplain, but
I've seen a lot of my classmates leave and go into different denominations. Several
became Episcopal priests. There are some that became Universalists. Some became
United Church of Christ. I just came to, for me, a logical conclusion that [religious
belief] is all ridiculous and doesn't make any sense.
Jeb, who attended a Southern Baptist seminary, openly questioned,
both with other students and his professors, what he was learning there.
We'd come back from a theology class and get into discussion.
Then issues would come up, and I'd realize I wasn't the only one saying, "Well,
if that is so, what about this?" In other words, if we know that lots and lots about
the biblical story is not accurate, then in what sense do you say the Bible is inspired,
that it has some divine stamp on it? It seemed to me that that's the fundamental
question one raises, if everything you know about this is supposed to come
from some authentic source. It seemed to me that the whole house of cards falls
down if your source of authenticity is flawed.
I got to know my professors very well, and mostly I didn't raise
those questions in class. Mostly what I did was talk to them personally and say,
"What do you think? Do you really believe, let's say, in the Virgin Birth?" Mostly,
they equivocated. I haven't looked back on it for many years, because I've been
out of it for more than forty years, but when I was struggling and I looked back
on it, I would realize they didn't really give a good answer to that.
One of my professors, whom I dearly respected and loved, almost
admitted that were he not in the twilight of his career, he would no longer be a
professor of religious philosophy, because he did not believe in an eternal soul.
He didn't honestly think there was anything after this that was going to survive
our death. And he almost said as much in class, but not quite—sort of guarded. I
do remember asking him in private, "Why can't you go ahead and stand up and say
that you don't think there's anything after death—that this is all we've got?" And
once again it was a kind of equivocation, of saying, "Well, it's not certain, and
it's just better to just sort of leave it as it is." Something like that. In other
words, nobody would come straight out and say, "No. I think it's all a crock of
shit, but this is how I make my living, so I've got to stick with it."
To avoid disappointing his deeply religious family, Jeb finished
seminary and entered the ministry.
I just thought, Well, I'm good at this, and I want to help people,
so I'll just try and put those questions aside and go ahead and plunge into trying
to be the best people-helper I can be, in spite of the fact that I'm not sure all
of this holds together.
Candice was so adversely affected by what she learned in a
Roman Catholic seminary, that she had become an atheist by the time she finished
her master's degree. She abandoned her plans to work in the Catholic education system
and entered a field unrelated to her graduate studies. Still, she initially
reacted much like the "fascinated" seminarians described above. She liked her elective
theology classes in college so much that she majored in theology.
I enjoyed it [her undergraduate education] and I found it interesting—because
it was so much new information, right? Learning about Augustinian theology and philosophy
and then also looking at biblical criticism. I thought, "Wow, this is really interesting!"
When I was a little kid I wanted to be an archeologist. I found that same kind of
digging, the fact-finding, in biblical criticism, and that's what interested me,
in that I'm going to find the answers. Because I had all those questions when I
was a child, too. I don't really understand a guy living in the belly of
a whale. And why is Eve so bad? I wanted answers to those questions even when I
was a kid.
In philosophy of religion class, we spent the entire year proving
that God doesn't exist. Yet somehow—I don't know, maybe it's a uniquely Catholic
thing—I was able to compartmentalize my belief into this little package, where I
just didn't touch it. I let all these ideas swirl around, and I looked at them kind
of the way a kid would look at images through a kaleidoscope—with awe and wonder.
But I didn't think it could touch my religious belief, it formed my early life so
much. It was just a given. Everybody believed in God, because it was an impossibility
not to. Plus reading about the Old and New Testaments, and how they were written,
when they were written, and what communities they were written for. First off, there
was a barrier there that I didn't touch intellectually and kind of ignored. It was
purposeful ignorance—it really was.
As her graduate studies progressed, her reaction to what she
was learning deteriorated.
The more I was studying, the more I just felt like I was wasting
my time. And I felt like, "Well, I don't believe it," and actually started to look
at that little package I had put aside, of beliefs. And I thought, "Well, I'm constantly
rearranging it, and I'm constantly bringing in new information and trying to restructure,
and it isn't sound." I had to accept that it isn't sound. I sat with that for a
while, then I had to take a break from school for family reasons, so during that
time I thought about the fact that I accepted that my belief wasn't sound. And then
I just thought to the point where, "Maybe I don't believe this at all. So what does
that mean? Maybe I believe in something else." Then I thought, "All right, let's
look at other Christian denominations." So I tried out this church and that church—it
was like changing outfits. And I felt I didn't really like that, either. It still
made no sense to me.
Her goal then was to get out. She wrote her master's thesis
and left quietly.
I had no desire to tell anyone, mostly because I felt like I was
going to waste my breath. And the other thing was that I didn't want to be ostracized.
I already felt it enough internally, because I was so conflicted being there, and
so frustrated by some of the classes I was taking. I just wanted to kind of slip
under the radar. It wasn't purposeful, but I didn't want to get caught up in the
messiness, and I knew it would get messy.
I didn't want to get into an argument with people, and I knew
they would make a really great argument for why I should continue to believe in
God. And I didn't want to stand there and say, "You're having no effect on me, because
I thought about this myself for a long time."
The Seeds of Doubt
Bill is an Episcopal priest whose initial awareness of his
growing atheism—as he freely calls it—began in seminary.
I had an internal dialogue. I had conversations with myself, and,
looking back, it was not a systematic atheism that I was putting together in seminary
but a systematic Christian theology that worked for me. And certainly a liberal
seminary education provided the tools to do that.
I was introduced to what is called form criticism, literary
criticism—Paul Tillich, Rudolf Bultmann. It reinforces my progression to atheism.
It reinforces it—I'm not there yet.
It would be the wrong assumption to say that a liberal seminary
is the defining moment in one's awakening to atheism. I believe that one would have
to take the long look, the broad look.
Bill didn't talk to his professors about his wavering beliefs,
but he did occasionally talk to some of his classmates.
We would talk, but we were cautious. We were not completely honest.
We would talk about how bold and courageous we were, to finally give up on a personal
God.
I think the academic exposure reinforced, for most of us, what
we had already been processing and reasoning out and thinking through. And that
academic arena gave us permission, but only to move by degrees, because now the
problem is even more vexing. If not a personal God, then some kind of God. And for
me, that was so bewildering. It was even more incredible for me, and I even wrote
my senior paper on the problem of an intelligent being. As I recall, I began by
stating emphatically that I cannot any longer find succor or comfort in a personal
God, because that personal God has the power to say hello and yet never, never speaks.
So I'm left with this even larger enigma: of a God somewhere that is responsible
for all of this but yet, in all of that power, refuses to become personal. I ended
the paper somewhere by saying that it's forcing me to continue down the road of
doubt and unbelief.
Bill recalls getting an "A" on that paper.
Vince, a former Catholic monk, seminary teacher, and visiting
parish priest in the 1960s, was similarly conflicted about some of what he learned
in seminary.
We were introduced to modern critical biblical studies because
we got a new professor who'd just finished his degree in Europe. His whole approach
was something totally different. We had never experienced anything like it. Instead
of taking the Bible in a very literal sense, we began to look at it in terms of
not only its literary composition but its historical setting. Not the more traditional
idea, [which was] that the Bible was symbolized . . . by a traditional icon of the
Evangelist writing with the dove, representing the Holy Spirit, perched on his shoulder,
whispering in his ear—that type of thing. This man opened our eyes to the fact that
the Bible was the work of men. It was the product of human beings and their age
and their culture. That's when we start talking about, What does this all mean?
How do we deal with this?
Vince and some of his classmates were also disturbed by the
Church's attempt to keep them in the ancient confines of their religious order.
Watching [contraband] modern movies made us more aware of the
fact that we weren't living in the 13th century; we were living in this century.
And at this point, if you were still thinking in terms of being an effective priest
as well as a monk, we had to have a real feel for the life of the people we would
be working with and the world we would be working in. If I was going to be teaching
and preparing my students supposedly for the ministry, it should be for the ministry
that was relevant to the world they were going to go out in.
He and many others in Catholic religious orders were hoping
that the then-new Vatican II rules would liberalize the Church.
I wasn't ready to decide that maybe I'd made a mistake, a serious
mistake, and I should go seek something else. There was also a lot of hope that
the changes that were being officially approved by the Council could make some really
significant changes—not just in the Church but in our order.
They allowed us to voice and write our opinions of what changes
should be made to our rules and practices. Eventually—this was after I was already
ordained, already on the seminary faculty—they did issue a revised rule, constitution,
and the changes were totally insignificant, essentially the same document. It was
about that same era that quite a number of other padres decided that was it, and
left.
Vince decided to stay on in the Church. It wasn't until several
years later that his experiences, which will be discussed in the next section, prompted
him to leave.
The Diligent Students
Some of the clergy who eventually moved from belief to nonbelief
were diligent students who were undisturbed by what they were learning about religion
during their college or seminary years. Their negative reactions came later, based
on additional learning and/or their experiences with their congregations.
Michael, a Seventh-day Adventist pastor, knew in high
school that he would enter the clergy.
I believed that's what God wanted me to do, so that's what I did.
I went straight through high school and right into theology in college. I started
seminary, went nine quarters straight through, and went straight into pastoring.
He recalls seminary in terms of the courses he took but not
how they affected him at the time.
There was some Reformation history. Biblical history would have
been teaching the Bible as literal—just learning the stories of the Bible as literal
fact. Not much as far as other perspectives go, when I think of how the Bible was
formed and when I think of studying Reformation history and stuff.
I took three years of Greek. Homiletics, preaching. Old Testament,
which is just as it is written in the Bible. In seminary, we took a class on creationism,
but it was basically promoting creationism. There was very, very little looking
at other perspectives.
Harry, who went to a Lutheran seminary, spoke readily about
his studies and his interactions with his classmates.
I remember having great conversations. I remember loving the theological
dialogue, the talk in the cafeteria about what we'd heard at lectures. I remember
really enjoying that a lot.
His exposure to liberal, academic theology did not affect
his beliefs while he was in seminary, and he was not troubled by doubts about what
he was learning.
I remember one Systematic Theology professor who was way on the
left end of the spectrum, who flat-out said he didn't believe in subjective immortality—the
continuing existence of you as subject after you die. And he was a well-respected,
well-known theologian in Lutheran circles. That kind of shocked me, and I didn't
believe that at that time. I totally believed that there was Heaven and everything.
So I guess I was exposed to some of that in seminary, but I wouldn't say I had major
doubts. I think I was fairly orthodox—unless I was just totally lacking in insight
and just parroting the party line in order to get credentials and get ordained.
I didn't see doubts being contradictory with my role, because
I met so many professors who seemed to be fairly open-minded, and I thought if they
could do this, I could do this, too.
Harry thought his approach to seminary was probably quite
common among students.
I think part of the deal is that most people go to seminary really
not knowing a whole lot about the Bible. So you're so busy just trying to learn
all the material, and you're studying Greek and sometimes Hebrew, that you're kind
of taking it for granted. You went to seminary under the presumption of faith.
He had a logical explanation for how he and others could avoid
thinking more deeply about the many questions that were raised during his seminary
experience.
You're just trying to pass tests and that kind of thing. And it
didn't click; for some reason it didn't click.
Most people did not go to seminary as seekers. They go because
they're already committed to the program. You took this to be—in some way, shape,
or form—the word of God, whether literally or symbolically or metaphorically or
whatever, but at some level you believed that this was the word of God. And I think
that that's why I had those blinders on. I just said, "Well, it's Scripture, so
I'm accepting it." You do spend some time, when inconsistencies pop up, finding
ways to explain them away. But after a while, spending any time with the Bible takes
its toll. I mean, Christians don't even read the Bible—that's quite obvious to me.
Regardless of how these clergy responded in seminary, they
found it challenging to apply their new theological knowledge and understanding
to the people in the pews —to which set of challenges we turn next.
12. After Seminary: Preaching and Teaching
For most of our participants, applying their seminary-acquired
knowledge meant working in a congregation. It was in this setting—in the pulpit,
in study groups, in one-on-one meetings—that these freshly-minted clergy brought
their theological knowledge to bear and practiced their pastoral skills. It was
here that they met with troubling experiences they ultimately could not reconcile.
Many of our participants found that the people in the pews not
only were uninterested in their pastor's advanced knowledge but actually
eschewed it, instead favoring the naïve, feel-good aspects of faith.
These new clergy became disillusioned by dishonesty or corruption
in the Church hierarchy. Novel insights and information about their religion
alarmed those who had remained believers in seminary, leading them toward
nonbelief. They obfuscated, adapting their message to be more relevant to people's
everyday life, while avoiding disturbing historical or doctrinal issues. Attempts
to stifle their negative feelings became more difficult. They found their questions
and discomfort growing instead of diminishing. They noticed that knowledge about
science excited them more than religion did. Eventually, irrespective of the initial
strength of their enthusiasm and commitment, their religious beliefs diminished
until they were gone.
From Fascinated to Frustrated
Tony recounted his frustrations trying to apply what he'd
learned in seminary to his interactions with his Catholic parishioners.
These very cerebral professors would come up with these ways of
still believing in the Resurrection—"Our faith is faith in their [the disciples']
faith." And I started to adapt those. But really, the popular theology in the pews
is—I hate to say it in this way, but it's like a third-grade understanding of things,
especially confession and sacraments and morality. It's this very childish way of
understanding things—the black and white: "The Bible says it; the Bible tells me
so."
I got out of seminary, then into the priesthood, and then back
out in the pews, where it's the popular theology, where everyone's just like, "Whoa!
It says here that God destroyed Sodom, so gays are bad." And you're like, "No, no,
it's all about hospitality, and the real sin was that they didn't welcome the homeless
person and the alien from another land into their house, which really has all these
effects on what we say about social justice in our country, and we really shouldn't
be having open borders," and all this kind of stuff. And then they're like, "No,
it's because gays are going to hell." And you're like, "My God, how do you get people
to grow?"
Caitlin's experiences were similar to Tony's.
I thought the seminary experience was wonderful, because it was
so academic. But to move into an Episcopal congregation where people were
thinking that Moses wrote the first five books of the Bible himself and did not
want to hear you challenge that! Still, some people were interested, and we did
lots of Bible study with some of those. Some people didn't want any part of it.
So it was a mixed bag. People were more willing to accept that Moses didn't write
the first five books of the Bible than they were to accept that maybe Jesus wasn't
resurrected in bodily form. There's a real spectrum.
She learned, from personal experience and from her mentors,
how the church was different from the seminary.
People go to church for all different reasons. They go for comfort,
just because that's what they always do, or they go because they think it's the
right thing to do. They go for social reasons, or for moral reasons, or, you know—all
kinds of reasons people go. But they don't necessarily go to learn the most current,
critical, academic criticism of Scripture. They don't do that. So there was a rupture
between coming out of seminary and what I discovered the people were interested
in, particularly in terms of preaching. And what my clergy mentors would point out
to me, over and over, was that people don't care about the intellectual piece. It's
not that they only want the feel-good piece, it's that the academic piece
isn't what preaching is about. That's what teaching is about. But that's
not what congregational pastoral life is about.
Later, when Caitlin had a church of her own, she did an experiment
with the Nicene Creed, the profession of faith most widely used in Christian services—an
experiment that troubled some of her more traditional-minded parishioners.
There was some set-up for this. I didn't just pop it on them.
I asked people to recite the parts of the Nicene Creed that they actually believed.
It got very quiet. There were only six or seven people there who recited the whole
thing. It was very interesting. The people who recited the whole Creed were furious
at me, because that's "what we do."
Darryl acknowledges that he is "still playing the game" of
being vague about his beliefs with his Presbyterian church members.
I've been surprised at some of the stuff I've been able to get
away with in my sermons—either because the people listening agree with me or maybe
it's not clear enough. It's not so much coming out and saying I don't believe Jesus
is God—but in the bulletin I can take out a lot of the objectionable language in
the liturgy. And there's lots of way to talk about Jesus, as being a follower of
his philosophy of life, without using terms like "Son of God."
Darryl's situation is discussed in more depth in our section
on the pilot study participants.
From Deeply Troubled to Desperate to Leave
Stan's work as a hospital chaplain contributed to his
nonbelief.
It was after realizing—I know this sounds very elementary—that
people die in hospitals. I saw a lot of death, a lot of dying, and regardless of
who they were, if people had cancer and it was inoperable—miracles don't happen.
Still, he found it rewarding to comfort people when they were
in great physical distress. It was the time he spent leading regular church services
that bothered him.
I was a chaplain who hated going to church, who hated doing these
things. And it's like, at what point is it insanity to continue to do this? There
was one thing to being in a hospital, in a military unit, when you're out doing
drills or maneuvers or you're out there with the troops. But when you're in the
chapel, and you're doing all these activities and teaching classes and preaching,
and you find, "Man, I absolutely despise this!"—it becomes such a misery, really.
I would always try to make things relevant for people. But in
terms of looking at these texts and trying to find something to preach from these
texts, it was just really, really difficult. Because I'm not believing a word of
the literal text, so how do I make this apply in some way to a motivational thought
or something? So that's kind of where I found myself. Of course, being a liberal
clergyperson, that's what I've been doing for a long time. But it just got to the
point where I thought, "What am I doing? What am I doing? What's going on here?"
I spoke a lot about love and community and encouragement and
caring—and those attributes of caring for society and the poor and the needy and
the marginalized which I felt, "OK, I believe this; this is good stuff." But when
it comes to walking on water and miracles and this kind of stuff, I just think it's
so much crap. So how do I reconcile this?
For a while, he found ways of coping.
I do like people and being around people, and I tried to put the
energy into thinking about just helping people in their life, and bettering their
life, and having a sense of community. People need a sense of community, of belonging,
activities for children. People came to chapel for those things, but it was because
they had these beliefs in God, and many of them truly believed that.
But it was hard for him to keep up the façade.
People would come to me, for instance, about homosexuality. "I
have a nephew who's homosexual. Can you give me some advice on how to deal with
his situation, because I believe he's sinning against God." And I would say something
like, "Well, tell me more about that," instead of saying, "Oh, yeah, you need to
go to this passage," and this and that. I felt afraid to say, "Well, is he happy
with the person he's with? It sounds like he's just a homosexual, and that's OK,
isn't it?" They're not wanting to hear that. They want to hear me give the answer
that's going to help them to fix their nephew. And I just simply couldn't give them
the answer they wanted.
So he finally decided to get out. Like many others, he left
quietly.
I feel that I'm at the point where, if I'm going to have a sense
of integrity personally, professionally, I have to push forward—into what I believe
and what I no longer believe. It's come to a point where it's dishonest—even if
in my mind I can rationalize by attempting to say, "Well, I have a very sophisticated
understanding of spirituality, and it's about social justice, and it's about community."
But the people who are in the pews, the people who see you as clergy, don't make
those distinctions, can't make those distinctions. So you get the dilemma of "What
do I do? What do I do with my life?" I've chosen to go back to school and have a
sense of congruency about what I'm doing.
When Jeb was still in the Southern Baptist seminary, he would
try to avoid preaching.
When I was asked to fill the pulpit at the seminary church where
my fellow students and my professors were, I got to the place where I said to the
senior minister, "Don't ask me to do that right now, because I don't have anything
but doubts to talk about."
Later, when he had a church of his own, he attempted to preach
with authenticity.
By the time I finished seminary, since I had decided that I was
going to try to stay in it and make it work, I just concentrated on how anything
I had learned could contribute to the human condition.
In the sermon, I would talk in general terms. I was still trying
to believe there was something there. I could not, at that point, have said, "I
am an atheist." I could not even have said, at that point, "I am an agnostic." It
was just "I have tremendous questions about all this, and I'm not sure how much
of it—if any of it—makes sense. But I'll just try to preach the part I think
does make sense." And mostly that had to do with how we treat each other, and how
we learn to be forgiving. In a Baptist church, you don't ever preach a sermon without
Scripture. So you find a text, and, yes, some of the time it would refer to things
that I now know are simply not so at all. But at the time I was trying to make something
be so. So I didn't preach my doubts.
I'm sure many of my sermons at the time were things that, once
I finally left the ministry, I would say I knew at that time were not so. But I
was trying to make myself believe it, so I could have something to say in the pulpit.
I had lots and lots of angst and internal questioning of myself: "How can you be
doing this? How can you keep on doing this when you've got such significant doubt?"
But it's what I did.
Jeb was a successful minister in the eyes of church leaders.
The church was growing. People joined. When they joined, they
gave money. When they gave money, the church could add a new addition on. The reality
is, the people who are the movers and shakers in the church want the church to grow.
They want the money to come in. And if you can bring the money, they'll let you
get away with a lot of stuff.
However, like Stan, he had difficulty continuing to do something
he didn't believe in. He left after a few years.
For whatever reason, if something doesn't make sense to me, it's
just really tough for me to let it go and say, "Well, everybody else believes it,
so. . . . " I really, really tried to do that. But that's not easy for me. My best
friend in seminary ended up being a sterling minister, and it was hard for me to
understand why, because when we'd be in conversation about this, he would mostly
agree with me. But it just didn't seem to bother him that much.
I was conflicted, and it was tearing my insides out. You know,
"How can you do this? They believe it and they think it makes sense, but you don't
believe it and you don't think it makes sense. How can you keep doing this?" That's
what I finally ended up saying: "I can't do this any longer. It's just tearing my
insides out."
Knowing what other seminary-trained clergy have been taught,
Jeb thinks his understanding of the Bible is pretty common among pastors.
There is a rather large number of real, educated, not just Bible-school-trained
ministers who, if they were pinned down, would have to say, "I don't believe in
an eternal Hell. I don't believe in a virgin birth. I don't believe in a Resurrection.
I don't think the Bible is, in any sense except a poetic one, the word of God."
Because if they're intelligent and have a decent education, you've got to look around
and say this is where you come out.
If you study the quotations in the Bible about the idea of a
holy virgin shall conceive and bear a son—from Isaiah, you know—the word translated
"virgin" simply means a woman of a marriageable age. It doesn't mean "never had
sex." So the logical consequence from that is that if there was an actual historical
person named Jesus, he was born the normal way. Somebody had sexual intercourse
and we have a biological father.
He also thinks he knows why some ministers stay in the pulpit
despite the questions that come from their advanced knowledge.
Most ministers who have had some of those questions but have managed
to stay in, by the time they get to be my age they don't want to revisit it.
Even though Candice left the Catholic Church after completing
seminary, she still found herself in uncomfortable situations when asked about religion.
If someone approached me and asked, "Why do you feel this way?"
then I'd go into more detail and say, "You know, the Old Testament was written at
this time, and there were two primary writers, but really four writers, who wrote
the Old Testament. Mark is the first Gospel and not Matthew. You know, this document
that we don't have is supposedly the inspiration for all the Gospels, because this,
this, and this are in all four Gospels." I could get into that, but that's a very
complicated response. And I've observed people who are listening to that response,
and—I don't want to be judgmental, and maybe it's because they haven't had the exposure
to it—but they don't have the intellectual capacity to understand it. It's because
religion is placed in this little box that doesn't get touched and that most of
them don't look at or study. It's all about how it makes them feel.
She learned to avoid such conversations.
If I was talking one-on-one, I'd say, "Constantine, the
Emperor of Rome, is the one who called the Council of Nicaea. He's the one who determined
the dogma that we know. He's the one who said, 'These are the books that are going
to go in the Bible, and these are the ones that are not." But I find that it tends
to get people really angry, unresponsive, and they stop thinking when you start
talking that way. And this is the last thing I want to have happen—for people to
stop thinking.
Like Jeb, she has opinions about the religious beliefs of
the people she encountered in academia.
I don't think a lot of theologians worry about whether they'll
go to Heaven or Hell. They're worried about making sure that they're in touch with
God, they're in touch with that creative force in the universe, that inspiration.
That's what they're longing for—that transcendent understanding of the world in
harmony. And I say all this because I felt all that. I thought, "Wow, the world
is this wonderful! This is such a cool place!" One of the hardest things about accepting
the fact that I didn't believe in God was accepting that the world could still be
this wonderful, magical place but without the deity.
She also has opinions about the Church's fundamental motives
and priests' fundamental beliefs.
I honestly think the reason the Church continues in this is because
it doesn't want to give up this power it has on the world stage. It has nothing
to do with perpetuating faith, hope, and love, but it's more about perpetuating
itself. It's become an artificial organ, and it's trying to survive. And that's
just my position on it. I honestly think that most priests—I know, because
I've listened to the priests; I've gone to school with them—they don't believe the
canonical stuff. They don't believe and they don't even go near the Trinity.
They study it, but they don't necessarily understand it.
Finally, she has advice for young Catholic seminarians.
I'd say, "Don't stop questioning." I mean, there were obviously
questions that brought you to the point you are in your life. There were obviously
questions that inspire you about religious language and religious ideology—all the
beautiful, lyrical ideas espoused from the pulpit. But don't sit back on the laurels
of those beautiful things. You need to make sure that those beautiful things that
are said are matched by beautiful works, and that is not always the case. When there's
something in your religious experience or your religious tradition that reflects
the diminution of another human being or harms another human being, then you must
recognize that it's not in the best interest of human beings. And it's not in your
best interest to perpetuate anything that supports that position.
From Seeds of Doubt to Blossoms of Disbelief
Bill, who intends to remain an Episcopal priest until his
retirement, acknowledged the atheism that grew in him in seminary several years
later, when he accepted the finality of death.
For me, the greatest anxiety was death. I knew I had held onto
faith due to fear, and I really believe I somehow allowed myself to enter that darkness
in an unlimited way. And I was not fearful. I really did have peace, and whatever
remnant I had of God vanished. And then, although I was alone, I could quite literally
say, "I'm a nonbeliever. I'm an atheist."
He believes that that acceptance has helped him minister to
the dying.
We lost a young man in our church recently, and I spent a lot
of time with him, just having conversations. And as he came closer to the end of
his life, he was more and more honest about his fear, his uncertainty. I believe
that those are emotions that, once addressed and allowed to be present, lose their
power over us. That was a really, really intimate kind of walk with him. I realized
the value of what I had been allowed to do for my own self.
He spoke about how he has handled the issue of the Resurrection,
in both preaching and teaching.
I have said from the pulpit, "I don't know about you, but for
me. . . the story is not about the resuscitated corpse. It's not about that." I
would use language like, "It is about the presence of God among us." I believe that
makes sense to people.
Occasionally, mostly in those teaching opportunities, when you're
gathering around, there's an invitation to conversation, and I'll ask, "What do
you think [about a metaphorical interpretation of the Resurrection]? Is that good
news or bad news?" People say, "What difference does it make, one way or the other?"
Bill says he is comfortable in his priestly role but acknowledges
some continuing conflict.
I know I am who I am. I know what I think. I know I'm not troubled
by it. I don't lose sleep anymore, because, after all, accepting my atheism wasn't
about God, it was about my fear of death. And so I would say that I play the role—put
the collar on and say the prayers.
We don't have a problem talking about the myth of the Virgin
Mary. That's easy work among Episcopal and other colleagues who think that way.
But to me, that's completely different from saying, "I'm an atheist."
There's this whole issue of "I'm an atheist, I'm a nonbeliever."
And yet I'm still using the language; I'm still helping people depending on where
they are. But most are not atheists, or at least they're not admitting to being
atheists. So I compartmentalize that conflict.
I don't think I'm denying anything. I feel very comfortable
with this particular language—displaying faith without truly having faith. I'm OK
with that.
When Vince was acting as a visiting parish priest, he concentrated
on making his sermons relevant to his surroundings.
Well, mostly, when I would give a homily it would be basically
stories of Jesus and the Scriptures. I would try to think, depending on where I
was going, in terms of what possible elements might be applicable to these people.
When I was in seminary, I was preaching in a lot of declining industrial towns,
where I thought about what I could to say to help them deal with their lives. It
was different when I was in a more urban situation. I kind of enjoyed it. It was
a bit of a challenge to find something that would be relevant.
He became open to other ideas about the meaning of the Eucharist.
My involvement in sacramental theology [turning bread and wine
into the body and blood of Christ] evolved into concepts that this was sharing
a meal, just as you'd share a meal with friends and family, and this would create
the bond of union. This was the purpose of it.
I saw it as just a symbolic act, and I no longer took it to
be literally true, but I knew that many of the people I was distributing Communion
to still held the more traditional beliefs. That was fine with me. I didn't discuss
the issue much.
He recalls just two parishioners expressing doubts about Communion,
both in the confessional.
In both cases, they confessed it almost as a sin: "You know, I
don't really—I just can't understand—I don't believe it could be the body of Christ."
We didn't talk about it too much. I tried to explain that it was essentially symbolic—the
communion that should exist between all members of the Church. Of course, you didn't
want to take too much time in the confessional to get into a long explanation. You
had to keep people moving.
After a while, he was hearing and seeing things that ultimately
led to his decision to leave.
Bit by bit, any idealism I had was just shredded.
Some priests, at least by reputation, were not real vigorous
in observing their vows of celibacy. In some cases, we knew, or at least the report
was, that they were caught doing something with altar boys. If it was two priests,
they would be separated and reassigned. The attitude seemed to be, "Well, we'll
just cover this up." But if you were having an affair with a woman, that could be
dangerous. It might end up with a child-support suit and things like that, so that
was not tolerated. They would be disciplined, and very severely.
I was assigned to help out for two weeks at a parish that was
in a neighborhood that wasn't exactly affluent but where the pastor lived very comfortably.
We dined out every night I was there, and that jarred me. Where was this money coming
from? It was coming from those people. After that experience, I said, "No, I can't
go on with this. It's not part of my life anymore. I've got to find something else."
And I knew it wouldn't be easy. I had no money. But I just couldn't see going back
and continuing now. At this point, it was a pure charade. I just didn't want to
do that anymore.
His family did not question his decision to leave the priesthood
or pressure him to stay.
They said, "If you feel that's what you've got to do, that's what
you've got to do." That made it a lot easier.
And he did not share with them his reasons for leaving.
I suppose I still had some part of the feeling that if they still
believed in it, I didn't want to rattle their cage. On the other stuff [sexual
improprieties], you don't tell tales.
From Diligent to Disenchanted
For Michael, it was the reading and thinking he did since
his days in Seventh-day Adventist seminary that destroyed his fundamentalist beliefs.
When he was interviewed, he was planning to leave the Adventists after a lifetime
in the church and more than twenty years in the clergy. In recent years, he had
also occasionally attended regional and local freethought and atheist meetings.
He is grateful for the security and love that the Adventists provided him,
but he can no longer pretend that he holds their beliefs.
It's like everything I've learned recently has been totally eye-opening
to me. I didn't learn about a lot of different divergences of Christianity—the Gnostics,
the Manicheans. It was just brief touches on them as heretics, and that was about
it. You know, not a lot of in-depth stuff.
When I look back on my early years of pastoring, I can remember
Bible studies with people and talking about creation and making a statement such
as, "The concept of evolution is like an explosion in a junkyard and a 747 appears."
That's all I knew about evolution, and that's what I would say. Of course, that's
stupid.
Harry, when he became a Lutheran minister, initially reveled
in the preaching and teaching he did from the pulpit:
I have absolutely always loved preaching and public speaking.
I love the sense of being up there, connecting with the crowd. If you can play the
educational role, it's fun, because if you know your congregation, if you
know the context of their daily life, you can really address their struggles. I
always tried to make the message very contextual to what they were experiencing—not
imposing my own agenda, necessarily—because I saw it as a means to try to help people
deal with life, help strengthen their faith, help them know that God isn't a mean
old guy up there throwing lightning bolts.
However, in the process of presenting his positive view of
God, he ran into some communication difficulties with his congregation:
I wanted to present a gracious, loving God. More than anything
else, I wanted people to know that—to banish the conception of a threatening, judgmental
God. That was a real thrust of my preaching. The hard part of preaching, for me
has been— It actually got worse over the years, because you find yourself as a preacher,
and I bet most preachers would say this, self-censoring all the time. You can't
be completely and totally honest up there. If you're starting to have doubts, for
example, you can't share that. People don't want to hear that, and you want to keep
your paycheck and keep your congregation growing. But even beyond that, there were
times when I shied away from maybe the prophetic role—saying things I really
believed in—because it would just cause too much discord.
He started to feel uneasy about biblical teachings and elements
of the liturgy that he hadn't examined closely while in seminary.
We were not taught that Paul never mentions any of Jesus' teachings,
or miracles, or birth narrative. Paul doesn't quote Jesus, except one time. We did
learn that Paul's letters came way before the Gospels were written. So there are
many times, reading through Paul's letters, where he's making a point, and you think
he could really buttress his point here by quoting something Jesus said, but somehow
he doesn't know about it. So there's something fishy going on here. And there are
sections here, like Romans 13, where Paul says a lot of things that sound a whole
lot like what Jesus said but he doesn't attribute them to Jesus. Then you go back
to the Sermon on the Mount and think, "Wow, this sounds a lot like what Paul said
in Romans 13, except this was written down way later." Then you begin to see that
there's something hugely amiss here. And I don't know how much you want to get into
this, but it's those types of things that really started to bother me a whole lot.
I'd have to lead the congregation in the Apostles' Creed:
Jesus Christ, God's only begotten son, born of the Virgin Mary. I never believed
he was born of a virgin, ever. Or maybe I did a long time ago, but not in the past
twenty years. There were things I had to say in the Creed every week that I would
have to interpret in the most symbolic way possible, but I finally reached the point
where I couldn't even say this anymore, in any way that's meaningful.
He explained how he handled tricky situations by obfuscating.
You can play a lot of word games with yourself when you say things
you don't really believe, and find a way to say it with some type of integrity.
For example, you could say, "I believe that Jesus is the savior of the world," meaning
that you believe in the actual, literal atonement—that because he died, he somehow
paid for the sins of every person on Earth. And because he justified God's wrath,
he atoned for these sins, and now you could get to Heaven through him. But you could
also say the same words with fingers crossed behind your back—because I believe
if people really got onboard with the Sermon on the Mount and tried to live a little
more lovingly and nonviolently, this could be the salvation of the world.
See what I mean? You play these kinds of tricks with yourself, where you can say
the formula in a way that's going to satisfy the person listening, and you're thinking
internally, "Well, I mean something different by it."
After teaching a few Bible study classes, Harry became frustrated
with people's reaction to the Bible and with the Bible itself:
No one asks you anything. If anyone were to sit down and actually
read the Bible as any kind of a narrative, you would see that this stuff does not
hang together. Inconsistencies and fabrications. And they're glaring—you don't have
to dig hard. I mean, in Mark 2, Jesus references a story in the Old Testament, First
Samuel 21. Jesus and the disciples are being criticized for gleaning from a field
on the Sabbath, and he references a time where there was an analogous story involving
David, and he says it was at the time that Abiathar was high priest. Well, if you've
read First Samuel 21, you know in that story it's not Abiathar but his father, Ahimelech,
who is high priest. Now, Jesus, according to the Christian notion, is supposed
to be God, or divine, and even if he wasn't completely perfect in his Earthly manifestation
you would have expected him to at least know the Bible well enough not to make that
mistake. So the possibilities are either (a) Jesus was mistaken, or (b) the author
of Mark was mistaken. And if he [the author of Mark] was mistaken there, what else
did he get wrong? That's in the second chapter of Mark. Nobody asks about that kind
of stuff at all.
Over the years, he noticed that people had very narrow concerns
about religion.
People want to typically ask you, as a pastor, issues of theodicy—issues
of God and human suffering. "If there's a loving God, why did this bad thing happen
to me?" or to so-and-so? The second most common question is about who's going to
Heaven? You know, everybody's worried about my Buddhist friend going to Heaven—or
my husband, who doesn't go to church, going to Hell. Those are the two questions
people fixate on. . . . Either people don't want to deal with the inconsistencies
of the Bible or they just see them and they gloss over them. But it doesn't seem
to be an issue for a lot of people.
He thought back to a time when he sincerely taught things
that he no longer believes.
When teaching Bible studies years ago, when I was more orthodox,
I'd tell people that the emergence of Christianity came about because of a series
of unique geopolitical factors. I did this to show that Jesus had to be born when
he was born. If he was born any earlier, the infrastructure wouldn't have been there
at all, so it was like a tinder box waiting for a match to light it: "See?
God's hand is in history all along, preparing the way for Jesus." But it's bogus.
You don't need to say that. There were these unique geopolitical circumstances that
provided a fertile field for the emergence of a movement like this. But people just
loved my explanation, because they wanted to be reassured that the hand of
God is at work, seriously influencing the events in history and making things happen.
When asked the follow-up question, "And you believed that
at the time, is that correct?" he responded:
Ummm, maybe. I'm trying to figure that out. At what point did
I really believe it? At what point was I saying things that I knew would please
the crowd? There's always that element, too. I guess I'm still trying to figure
that out—how my own evolution progressed. Maybe it was happening when I was teaching
these things.
His beliefs were evolving as he prepared sermons, looking
for "interesting things about the world to share with people." It was during this
process that he discovered evolutionary psychology.
I was reading books on happiness, like Jonathan Haidt's book,
The Happiness Hypothesis,[3]
which isn't specifically about evolutionary psychology, but he references it, and
I just started looking in his bibliography and then reading some of the books that
he had referenced, which led me to things like Steven Pinker's The Blank Slate[4]
and Robert Wright's The Moral Animal.[5]
Then I read some of David Sloan Wilson's work, like Evolution for Everyone,[6]
and, of course, Dan Dennett's book. I haven't read Darwin's Dangerous Idea
yet, but I did read Breaking the Spell. And one thing led to another. I'd
pick up a book, and when that book referenced others, I'd go read those books,
too. I found it fascinating, and I'm still finding it fascinating.
After moving to a nondenominational church, where he was less
constrained by dogma, Harry eventually left to start a humanist congregation. He
hopes to use his new pulpit to help people gain a clearer understanding of the world
and to make it a better place.
I'd like to help people to see that what we're dealing with here
is nothing supernatural. It's very much the result of the geophysical facts on the
ground in human history. This wasn't anything divine that happened; it happened
in very ordinary human lives. And it's not based on truth in any way, shape, or
form. Archaeology has not corroborated any of the most important events in the Old
Testament.
Religion has been such a source of oppression—from the theodicy
issue to sexuality issues. You name it. Even in other social issues as well. And
I'd like to play a small role in ending the oppression.
13. Burnout and Depression
Merriam-Webster defines "burnout" as "exhaustion
of physical or emotional strength or motivation usually as a result of prolonged
stress or frustration," and "depression" as "a state of feeling sad; a psychoneurotic
or psychotic disorder marked especially by sadness, inactivity, difficulty in thinking
and concentration, a significant increase or decrease in appetite and time spent
sleeping, feelings of dejection and hopelessness, and sometimes suicidal tendencies.
Rick, a United Church of Christ campus chaplain who participated
in our 2010 pilot study, often e-mails articles about religion, and when he sent
information about "clergy burnout," it spurred us to think about whether burnout
was a factor in our participants' nonbelief. In the interviews, some of them had
discussed their depression, sometimes severe depression, but burnout was apparently
not much of an issue. Or had we overlooked it? We decided to investigate the prevalence
of these phenomena and check the interview transcripts for references to
them.
Burnout
ReligionLink describes itself as "the ultimate source for
journalists reporting on religion" and "a non-partisan service of Religion
Newswriters Association and Religion News LLC . . . created by journalists, for
journalists."[7]
The ReligionLink page of resources on burnout[8]
does not mention loss of belief as a contributing factor. Substance abuse, marital
infidelity, and an undefined "spiritual emptiness" are mentioned, but not loss of
belief in God. A word-check on "burn" in the interview transcripts confirmed our
recollection that burnout was hardly ever mentioned. (The word "burn" usually came
up in association with the word "Hell.") As for "burnout" or "burned out," only
a few participants used those terms and in only one case was it in direct reference
to a participant's church work. Most such references were related to pre-
or post-clergy jobs. For instance, Jack, a Southern Baptist minister who participated
in the pilot study, mentioned burnout in the context of leaving a dead-end job to
study for the ministry: "Traveling all across the U.S. in different towns for six
years, I just really got burned out. I didn't feel it was going anywhere career-wise."
A life in the ministry offered him more stability and fulfillment.
Adam, a Church of Christ minister who also participated in the
pilot study, values the long-term friendships he has formed at church and the outlet
that ministry has provided for his skills and talents. He mentioned burnout to a
prospective employer as a plausible reason for wanting to leave ministry.
When I interviewed with the general manager, the only thing I
said about leaving the ministry was that I was pretty much burned out on church
work and that I needed to make more money than the church could afford to pay.
The presumption is that employers would easily understand
and accept burnout and low pay as good reasons for wanting to leave the ministry.
The real reason was that Adam no longer believed in God. But he knew that this would
be an inappropriate statement to make to a prospective employer, so he was deceptive,
even as he sought to escape the deceit of being a nonbelieving pastor.
Pete, a youth pastor-in-training, was the only participant who
mentioned burnout as a direct result of his work in the church:
Yeah, I was definitely burned out by the Assemblies of God at
that point. Mostly over being free labor for three years. They were addicted to
free labor to mulch the church property and run their small groups and stuff. So
they're able to keep this thousand-person youth group running on a staff of five
full-time adults and an army of college kids. So, I was just a slow burnout, because
I was working like sixty to eighty hours a week for zero dollars. So, yeah, by that
point I was done.
Burnout, however, was not Pete's only reason for leaving.
As his religious studies progressed, he found himself becoming an agnostic when
his superiors brushed off his questions about inconsistencies in the Bible. The
only people available to discuss his questions were other trainees. Pete first joined
the Assemblies of God as a young teenager, when accepting Jesus helped to shield
him from serious family and legal troubles. Since leaving the church, he has married
one of his former church friends, also now agnostic, and they are both in college,
majoring in fields unrelated to religion. They hope to raise their future children
in an emotionally and financially stable home environment that will make them less
susceptible to religious claims.
Matthew, one of our three seminary professors, wondered whether
clergy who said they no longer believed in God were simply burned out.
I think that often what happens is not a collapse of faith, in
the fundamental sense that one stops believing in God, but that one no longer cares—that
burnout creates a kind of apathy. . . . If you don't have the energy, the skill,
the brilliance to communicate effectively and get people excited and enthusiastic,
then, my God, you burn out quickly. And if you're the only intellectual, and nobody
else is helping you get excited, you die of intellectual loneliness.
Perhaps Matthew was being defensive and myopic, but he could
be pointing out a key difference between how seminary professors and clergy handle
the same information. The professors don't have to preach their tenets to laypeople,
who are generally less theologically educated and may be seeking only solace and
comfort. Professors don't counsel or perform funerals and baptisms—pastoral duties
that require repeating the creedal elements that professors teach their students
to look at with the eyes of a scholar rather than a believer. According to some
of our participants, their discomfort with Bible stories or parts of the
liturgy didn't start until they had repeated them many times or tried to explain
them to parishioners.
None of the clergy in the study described themselves as burned
out as a result of moving from belief to nonbelief. They had been troubled, anxious,
depressed along the way; however, from their descriptions of what they gained or
lost when their beliefs changed (see section 16), we gather that they also felt
liberated, even thrilled, to be out of the bind of belief. Despite all the
problems nonbelief has caused them, it also invigorates them, making burnout
a nonissue. Carl the Lutheran and Bill the Episcopalian are examples; both
are in liberal congregations and both have decided to stay put until retirement.
They like their jobs (except for hiding their nonbelief) and are respected by their
parishioners and the community. Andy, an agnostic United Church of Christ
pastor, and Wes, a Methodist minister in our pilot study, also in liberal congregations,
see themselves as guiding their congregants into a non-faith-centered future.
Here there's no burnout either; Wes and Andy both have a strong sense of mission.
So perhaps the studies on clergy burnout are correct not to include
lack of belief as a cause. Our findings uncovered no such connection. Then again,
our participants are self-selected; they volunteered to discuss their nonbelief.
There may well be many clergy so settled into to their routine or resigned to their
situation that they have lost their initial fervor and sense of mission.
Think of officiants at weddings and funerals who are disengaged, insensitive, or
even downright rude. Perhaps it's not boredom but burnout due to lack of
belief which has robbed them of empathy for people in their moments of greatest
joy or sorrow.
Depression
When a loved one dies, the natural, healthy response is mourning,
a kind of depression. Anyone remaining happy and upbeat in the face of such a radical
change in life circumstances would be regarded as psychopathic. Estrangement from
the creed to which one has devoted one's life is a similarly dire blow to one's
psyche, so depression in such circumstances seems normal, not pathological. It is
possible, of course, that clinical, organic depression is in rare cases
the cause of abandoned belief, but that must be shown, not assumed, since
it is a predictable effect in any event.
Depression was a much more common topic of conversation during
the interviews. Although participants were not systematically asked about
depression, the subject was raised when it seemed pertinent or when participants
mentioned it, which eleven of them did. Depression came up in various contexts,
sometimes related to the journey away from religious belief and sometimes not. Unlike
many people in other occupations, clergy are not reluctant to discuss their personal
mental-health issues. Moreover, dealing with these issues among members of their
congregation is part of their everyday life. Most clergy have training in pastoral
counseling and routinely refer their parishioners to mental-health professionals.
Caitlin, the nonbelieving Episcopal priest, mentioned depression
not as her personal problem but as afflicting the Church itself.
In the late nineties, I was angry because that Church I loved
was diminishing and disintegrating and in a depressed state and shrinking and getting
old. I see in terms of process and vision. I know how to fix things, and I know
that the process I and others developed for embracing young families and children
in the worship life of the community could stem the bleeding.
Two pastors—Tammie, the Methodist, and Winnie, the Presbyterian—described
personal depression caused by, respectively, illness and childhood trauma and unrelated
to their changes in religious belief.
Michael, the Seventh-day Adventist, although he has a family
history of depression, ascribes his own long-term, low-level depression in part
to his move from belief to nonbelief.
I've been on medication since some controversial Adventist books
came into my life twenty years ago and got me started seeing Scripture differently.
George, a former Greek Orthodox monk, has experienced depression,
sometimes severe depression, since early adolescence. Medication never worked well
for him. His own diagnosis, once he came to terms with his nonbelief, was "existential
crisis."
I didn't know how to live. I'd lost my sense of meaning, and I
had no alternative sense of meaning with which to replace it. That was what was
going on.
The therapist he saw for a few months after leaving the monastery
diagnosed post-traumatic stress disorder—a diagnosis that George thinks fits. Though
it was difficult for him to contemplate a life outside the monastery, he ultimately
felt it was intellectually honest and necessary to his mental well-being.
I had reached the point where it seemed that all the data was
in, and the data was overwhelmingly negative, both in terms of the bookish stuff
and in terms of how I was being treated by others—all the lying I had to be involved
in by the dictates of the authorities. And I just thought, "I don't believe
the truth claims any longer, and I don't feel that the men in black are in fact
virtuous people at all." There was just no doubt that I had married my life
to a fraud, that I just couldn't honestly continue pursuing this—and
that if I continued in the Church it was going to destroy me psychologically. If
I wanted to find any kind of psychological health, any kind of spiritual rest, it
could only be through taking my life in my own hands, not allowing my life to be
dictated by authority and . . . blind obedience.
Both of our Mormon participants became seriously depressed
as their beliefs disintegrated. Joe, the active bishop, was mourning not only the
loss of his beliefs but of a culture that encompassed his whole family and community:
I'm crushed. I'm crushed. I mean, this has been one of the worst
experiences of my life, going through a crisis of faith. It's horrible. It's absolutely
horrendous. I had to go on antidepressants; I was waking up in the middle of the
night with panic attacks. I never had those in my life. My crisis of faith triggered
this depression; I have no doubt about that. I'm not the same person I was before
all this happened.
I think it's a shock at first, you know. You sit there and you
say, "Oh my gosh, I don't know if I totally believe the literalness of everything
anymore." It's like things collapse. It's like an earthquake, you know. It's like
an internal Armageddon. Eventually Armageddon will be over and there will be peace—that's
how I'm viewing it.
Walt, a former bishop who has left the Mormon fold, described
becoming suicidal upon realizing that there was no God.
When it became clear that there was no one looking out for me,
I got really angry—at nothing and everything and just life itself. I'd never been
suicidal before, but there are a lot of places in the mountains where I could be
running and easily fall off the cliff. People would say, "He had an accident—it's
sad." I felt there was absolutely no point in living. I know that sounds ridiculous,
because I love my family, but I had based everything on the eternal perspective
of life, and it was gone. If I don't know why I'm here, what purpose do I have being
here? It was fortunately a short-lived experience when it was really severe.
Some of our participants became deeply depressed when
their beliefs were changing. By contrast, others were released from depression when
they first became deeply religious, in adolescence. Dave, the Baptist missionary,
was a flailing teenager before he accepted Jesus as his savior.
So I'm working at the fast-food restaurant, I'm depressed, I don't
know what my life is going to be. I don't have any girlfriends and I'm seriously,
seriously thinking about suicide—for the first time. Earlier on in my life it was
more for attention. Now it was the real deal. I didn't have any hope in my life,
any purpose in my life, any goals in my life; I'm just floating debris.
Dave, who had been neglected and abused as a child, was strongly
attracted to the message of Jesus' love and protection that he heard from a coworker.
Then one night, he got saved while listening to Christian Radio.
The radio preacher said, "Do you know this Jesus? Do you believe
in this Jesus?" And I said to myself, "No." And he said, "If you have not believed
in this Jesus, then pray this prayer after me." So I prayed the prayer. And he said,
"If you prayed this prayer, now you're saved. You're Christian, and you're a child
of the King and you're going to Heaven." And I said, "Wow!"
He was impressed with the warmth he felt in his new church
family.
I became a member of a church and, for the first time, people
were asking how my week went. People were talking to me. For the first time in my
life, I had a semblance of a family, which meant a lot to me. And I noticed that
a preacher sort of got more attention, so I set out to preach—or I was "called to
preach," is the actual terminology.
Although his faith did not last, he is grateful for the early
positive effect it had on his life.
Looking back on it all, in some ways Christianity saved my life—and
for that reason only, I am thankful for it.
Pete, the Assemblies of God trainee, also felt saved as a
teenager. Here's how he describes his born-again experience:
Oh, monumental! Oh, like the greatest day of my life! I had been
in a lonely and depressing place, and I couldn't continue with the path I
had been on, with the drinking and the drugs and the partying. I was already
kicked out of my mother's house; I didn't want to get kicked out of my father's,
too. Then what would I do? So it felt like this is what I needed. this is
how I was going to turn my life around.
Tony, the former Catholic priest, described himself as a depressed
college student who was unsure of his future direction and questioning his commitment
to Catholicism. An experience at church changed that and led him on his path to
the priesthood.
I was thinking about killing myself, and I prayed for help. I
went back to church over the summer and started reading the Bible. I was like, "If
I'm going to leave this stuff, I want to understand it before I leave it, since
it's part of my family and my history." Then about a month into the school year,
I was at Mass and heard this homily where the priest talked about being vulnerable,
being open, being passionate. It was the healing of the deaf mute, where Jesus says,
"Ephphatha, be opened!" And I understood that about compassion, because I was always
a very compassionate kid, or—What do they call you?—"sensitive." You
know, a code word for gay. So I thought, "OK, God, what do you want me to do with
my life?" And it was like there was this openness in me that suddenly was like,
"Oh gosh, I wonder if I'm supposed to be a priest?" Then it all went pretty quickly
from there. I really wanted to help people.
Tony's beliefs eroded gradually, affected by his experiences
with clerical sex abuse and dishonesty. He ultimately realized that his desire to
help people could not thrive within the Church. Years later, another depressive
episode drove Tony away from the priesthood.
Jim, an Episcopal priest and one of two Episcopal clergy who
were interviewed as believers, described a catharsis he had during an especially
beautiful Episcopal service as he contemplated the resurrection of Christ. This
experience made it possible for him to resume his seminary studies following a period
of feeling distanced from Christianity.
Because of the Resurrection, there is hope that I don't have to
worry about dying. I'm not talking about physical death, I'm not talking about going
to Hell. I'm talking about the soul in me dying. The pain that I felt inside was
no longer my pain, it was God's pain—so that allowed me to get some distance on
it, to disown it in a way. I can identify now with the God part of my soul, rather
than the pain part of my soul. It's very hard to describe. But it felt like there's
this golden egg at the core of my being, the pearl of great price, this indestructible,
pure essence of being through which life flows. The source of my life, the source
of my soul, is in there, and that is the Christ within me. And that will never die.
. . . That whole depression, all of that self-pity, all of that yearning, just vanished
in that church service. And that's when I knew I could go back to seminary and go
into the ministry. It was the missing piece I didn't have before.
Low-level depression has come and gone throughout Jim's
life, but his commitment to his faith has remained intact.
There is no clear sense, at least from our research, that burnout
or depression will routinely occur when clergy move from belief to non-belief. Burnout
seems unrelated to changing beliefs. As for depression, it appears to be a by-product
of the mental turmoil involved when one examines one's beliefs in the context
of a troubled life. In our examples, depression lifted immediately when religion
was accepted and slowly when it was rejected. In both situations, the depression
lifted when a resolution was reached, irrespective of whether the resolution was
for or against religious belief.




[1]
John Dart, "The Value of a Theological Education: Is It Worth It?" The
Christian Century, February 22, 2003, pp. 32-5.


[2]
http://www.alban.org/pdf/TiMReport.pdf


[3]
Jonathan Haidt, The Happiness Hypothesis: Finding Modern Truth in Ancient
Wisdom (New York: Basic Books, 2005).


[4]
Steven Pinker, The Blank Slate: The Modern Denial of Human Nature (New
York: Viking, 2002).


[5]
Robert Wright, The Moral Animal, Why We Are the Way We Are; The New Science
of Evolutionary Psychology (New York: Pantheon, 1994).


[6]
David Sloan Wilson, Evolution for Everyone: How Darwin's Theory Can Change
the Way We Think About Our Lives (New York: Delacorte Press, 2007).


[7]
http://www.religionlink.com/ )


[8]
http://www.religionlink.com/tip_121018.php










V. Emerging Themes
14. The Plight of Liberal Clergy: Metaphors, Myths, Truths, and Facts
Linda LaScola
As a former liberal Christian, I was particularly eager to
understand liberal clergy. I was bothered by the negative response from some of
them after our pilot study was published. They complained that we didn't
get it—that we saw things in black and white, just as fundamentalist Christians
do, that we were missing the nuances of the liberals' sophisticated, evolved faith,
which thrives on myth and mystery, tradition and reason.
Liberal clergy don't accept the Bible's miracles. They don't
believe in the supernatural, and they are open to science. They realize that atheists
would therefore not consider them believers, but they do believe, and several wrote
to tell us so. As one correspondent put it, "According to your definition of God
[as a supernatural being], I am more an atheist than you are, and yet I adore God!"
They say there are many clergy like them. But we found them inexplicit about their
beliefs.
In our efforts get a better understanding of the liberals, we
interviewed two "believing" Episcopal priests (classified as "others" in Appendix
A). Their beliefs, or lack of beliefs, were not unlike those of the sixteen liberal
clergy who characterized themselves as agnostic or atheist, but they still think
of themselves as believers.
Charles, an Episcopalian hospital chaplain who began his ministry
as a conservative Christian, describes what he believes this way:
I have a priest friend who says, 'There's living in the myth,
and there's living outside the myth." For me, when I'm in the myth, I totally believe
the themes of the Resurrection and Ascension, and those mean a lot to me. And outside
the myth, I don't think they're literally true. It's just not possible, based on
what I know about science. . . . And the point of this life—well, there is
no point to this life, but you have to find some meaning, because we're meaning-making
creatures. So we do a lot of things to make this a meaningful existence. Hopefully,
that existence lasts beyond us to some degree, but probably not. That's really what
I believe. And at the same time, the Christian mythology speaks to me at
a cultural level—more [on that level] now than at a real belief kind of level.
Charles recognizes the finiteness of life and the limits of
his beliefs, while finding solace and meaning in the myths that the Episcopal Church
espouses. He also acknowledges the pragmatism in this stance.
The problem is that I'm a leader in the Church, and there are
lots of problems that go along with that. I've got a pension program with the Episcopal
Church, so in some ways it would be a luxury, at this point, to decide that I believe
something different, or that I will renounce my vows as an ordained person, or whatever.
Because now my family's future, in many ways, depends on my participation in the
pension program. So it's a very practical reality. And I'm like 3-percent ashamed
to mention that to you, but that's just the fact of the matter.
In contrast, Jim, a cradle Episcopalian and the rector of
a thriving suburban Episcopal church, is much more at ease with myth. Unlike Charles,
he doesn't rationalize his acceptance of myth or apologize for it. Jim's appreciation
of myth comes naturally to him.
The information about the Divine is contained in the medium of
myth and prayer. And the engagement of that realm is the nonrational realm, where
the experience of the Divine occurs, and then it's left to the brain to figure what
the hell that was. That's why mythology, for me, is so important.
There's a reason why we have mythological imaginations. It's
a path to transformation—personal transformation, emotional healing, spiritual growth—in
my opinion. So I don't mind using mythological language—I think it's great. I think
there's a difference between the ecstatic language we use in church and in worship
and the descriptive language we might use outside of the worship context. When we
enter a church, we enter a mythological world. I think everybody does. The people
in my church are very intelligent. They believe in evolution. They also understand
that what happens to us as we engage in prayer and worship and mythological imagination
is fundamental to what it means to be human, and speaks deeply to the soul, and
carries us into becoming better human beings. Then they ask, "Well, what am I supposed
to do with the Nicene Creed? I don't know if I believe it." I talk about mythology;
I tell them to sing it, consider it a poem, consider it an object of art or great
literature.
Jim is particularly bothered by the New Atheists who, in his
opinion, talk about Christians as if they are all evolution deniers.
I picked up The God Delusion [by Richard Dawkins] at the
used-book store the other day, and it was the most insufferable reading I've ever
had to endure. It's incredibly disingenuous, if not equally as bigoted as the right-wingers.
The arguments are laughable to me, and yet he's earnest and sincere and he really
believes he's pursuing this ethical agenda. But I think he's willfully obtuse, and
it bothers me, because both sides in this debate are yelling past each other. Meanwhile,
a way of life that is life-giving to me and to millions of others is completely
misunderstood, mischaracterized, and ignored.
From interviews with liberal pastors like Jim and Charles,
and from reading the viewpoints of others like them, it seems obvious that liberal
clergy think fundamentalism is horrendous for all the reasons atheists do. They
also claim that atheists unfairly attack them because of a false assumption that
liberal and fundamentalist clergy are one and the same adversary. Liberal clergy
think atheists are dense, and atheists think liberal clergy are dense. When it comes
to religion it seems that atheists lead with their heads and liberal clergy with
their hearts. Where the liberals hear poetry and myth, atheists hear mumbo-jumbo
and lies. The liberals may well be as intelligent, educated, and science-oriented
as most atheists, but they recognize a spiritual dimension that atheists dismiss
as nonsense; whereas liberals consider atheists blind to the mysterious, the divine,
the sacred aspects of life that they find so meaningful—and so hard to explain to
the satisfaction of nonbelievers.
Until recently, mainline liberal churches—for instance, United Methodist, Presbyterian, Episcopalian, United Church of Christ—were the dominant
religious force in American society, and as such, they didn't have to explain
much of anything to anyone in order to command respect. Obfuscation, rationalization,
denial, worked just fine and served to protect their way of life. Now they're feeling
boxed in: bounded on one side by fundamentalists and on the other by the New Atheists.
Compare their situation to that of men during the women's movement
of the 1960s. Intelligent, well-meaning, respectful, socially conscious males were
caught off guard, put on the defensive, made to feel they had a lot to lose. They
could see that society was unfair to women, and some of them had had a sense of
that all along, but little motivation or ability to change things. The system, after
all, favored men, and the prospect of reorganizing it was scary. Scary for women,
too, but women were highly motivated, as the atheists are today. Ultimately, the
system would have stayed the same, if a lot of men hadn't come onboard, which
happened in large part because many of these men and women depended on and
loved each other. We can't say that about liberal clergy and atheist leaders—at
least, not yet—but they do have a similar worldview and a common enemy: religious
fundamentalism.
Unlike their conservative counterparts, liberal denominations
have made huge, socially conscious changes—performing same-sex marriages, accepting
gay and women clergy, and (quietly) accepting the Bible as mythical, not factual
truth. And what is their reward? They are losing membership, while the numbers of
atheists and people with no religious affiliation are growing.[1]
Some of the liberal, nonbelieving participants in our study accept
and even embrace the changes, seeing themselves as playing an important role in
the societal transition away from traditional religion. Wes, the Methodist minister
in our pilot study, put it this way:
I'm interested in community, relationships. And I believe the
argument could be made that that's what Jesus was interested in anyway. So I can
do that at the local church level. And I'm also there for people who are recovering
Christians. There are a lot of people out there who have been damaged by Christianity.
And they feel guilty that they're not a Christian—or that they're not practicing
or whatever. I'm their ideal pastor, because they can come to me and be told that
they don't need to feel guilty.
He conflated Christianity with liberalism:
I will be the first to admit that I see Christianity as a means
to an end, not as an end unto itself. And the end is, very basically, a kind of
liberal, democratic values. So I will use Christianity sometimes against itself
to try to lead people to that point. But there's so much within the Christian tradition
that itself influenced the development of those liberal values, you know. They didn't
arise through secular means. They came out of some religious stuff. . . .I could
couch all that in very secular language. If we were in a college setting, I would.
But we're in a religious setting, so I use the religious language.
Although Wes did not speak for all liberal clergy, he provided
a deeper understanding of liberal clergy's use of metaphor in sermons and in dialogue
with members of their congregations—although we wonder, and frankly doubt, whether
the people in the pews are as aware of their pastors' use of metaphorical language
as the pastors think they are.
Andy, the agnostic United Church of Christ pastor, sees Jesus
as a necessary transitional figure that will lead to a more openly secular society.
Focusing on Jesus—not even worshiping him, but just focusing on
Jesus, I would say—is an accommodation that's going to be necessary for the church
to transition into something of value to our society. People aren't going to automatically
jump; they're going to need a transition. And for my generation and probably several
following, it's going to have to dawn slowly on people. The best way to do that
is to use the historical Jesus as a bridge. I'm comfortable with the idea now, as
long as we don't worship him as God—because we know he's not God. One Trinity Sunday,
I preached that the Trinity was just an idea invented by humans. They found Jesus
to be particularly insightful, so they called him God. He was invented to be a god—he
never was. We know that.
Andy, who himself transitioned from conservative (Southern
Baptist) to liberal, is as honest as he feels he can be with his congregation. He
is truthful, "with one exception": He feels unable to say he doesn't believe in
God.
One of the values that helps me justify so-called lying to people,
or not being forthcoming, is that I feel like I am blunting the negative impact
of at least one religious community on the world. I think religion, especially Christianity,
has been a very damaging force, and continues to be in national politics, so you
can imagine my viewpoint on separation of church and state. I have taken one church
out of that orbit. I have shielded the citizens of this country from the negative
impact of one religious group, blunted that force, and helped to turn it into a
choice for good, and charity, and works of justice.
Jared a humanist and seminary graduate who was raised in the
United Church of Christ, seems to agree with Andy's take on his childhood church.
Jared also thinks there may be a reason that some UCC churches aren't more openly
humanistic.
The way it works is that in a lot of these UCC churches, the vast,
vast, vast majority of members are liberal and probably closer to humanists than
they are to any kind of Christianity—or Christian that's worth calling Christian.
But the reality is that there's a third, or a quarter, of their membership—usually
the oldest folks in the church and also usually the most moneyed interest in the
church—who are the conservative folks. So there is often the appearance of religiosity
to appease them.
Bill, the Episcopal priest whose doubts were sown in seminary
and who referred to himself as an atheist during the interviews, is a pastor
in a college town in a conservative state. His church is a liberal oasis for
people affiliated with the university. Because he is a nonbeliever, he doesn't
press belief on others. Instead, he listens empathically, and he considers himself
especially able to comfort people who have doubts.
People tell me all the time about former pastors telling them
in no uncertain terms that doubting was part of their problem: "Oh ye of little
faith!" Of course, having doubts and being a nonbeliever, an atheist, are two very,
very different things. Well, believe it or not, a lot of people don't believe, at
some point. I don't think I've ever felt like I needed to talk someone into being
an atheist. Recently a parishioner came up to me and said, "I cannot say the Nicene
Creed anymore." I said, "Really? You know, I can't either. I do say it, but I don't
believe it." I was able to tell her that.
At the same time, he doesn't interfere with people's strong
religious beliefs and at some level even envies them.
Now, I've got to be just as honest with you in saying that for
those who have a strong traditional faith, I cannot, I have not, I will not take
that away. For many, many people, belief and faith and conviction and a personal
relationship with God can be apparently very helpful. I personally feel that perhaps
one is not completely and fully human as long as one embraces fantasies and myths
about a theistic God who's personally involved in every aspect of one's life. But
sometimes I've found myself perhaps a little bit envious of those who have that
certainty and unmistakable peace and joy about death and life and just manage to
get through it.
As conflicted as Bill is, he feels he is doing good work and
counts himself privileged to be "invited into the most intimate aspects of a person's
life—birth, dying, divorce, losing a child." His experience in these encounters
is that "every person I've ever known is an unbeliever some of the time."
It is undoubtedly easier for liberal nonbelieving clergy to stay
in their positions, because they are not expected to be perfect examples of living
out the faith. Despite experiencing cognitive dissonance because of their loss of
belief, they can fulfill a useful function in churches where parishioners with similar
perspectives also see value in continuing in the Christian community.
The liberal cleric in our study who is most satisfied with his
position is not a Christian. He is a humanist rabbi. Jacob was Bar-Mitzvahed in
a Reform synagogue, became a Conservative rabbi, and then, like so many of our participants,
slowly became more and more liberal. Lucky for Jacob, he had somewhere to go, besides
in the closet or out the door. There is a small but vibrant humanist movement within
Judaism that provides a welcome respite for people like Jacob. While he appreciates
the value of myth, just as liberal Christians do, he also loves being able to speak
freely about Bible stories to other humanist Jews.
They're attracted to the [humanist] movement because it seems
to fit their worldview. They never believed in God. Or they don't believe in God.
They're certainly not theistic. But they like being Jewish, they love the holidays,
they love that affect component. And when I teach—and I do very clearly and accurately
and forcefully teach about this history—they like it. They like it a lot. They come
up to me and say, "Where can I read more? Where can I learn more?" And I would emphasize
that this is the literature, and this is how people dealt with the literature. But
here are some other things that are being uncovered, and you guys are going to have
to take the evidence and weigh it. I can tell you how it weighs out for me. The
way it weighs out for me is very clear: There are things in the Torah that are substantiated,
that happened. And there are things that are literature.
Jacob is relieved to claim certain central elements of Judaism
as myth and frustrated when others are equivocal about it.
In my opinion, it's time for us to let go of childish things—and
God language, to me, is a childish thing. The way we try to pretend that the Torah
is true, even though we also know that it's not true, is a childish thing. We're
trying to speak both ways. A good example is [Conservative rabbi] David Wolpe. He
aroused a lot of controversy ten or eleven years ago when he got up, on Passover,
of all times, and declared—as we all know and every archeologist knows—that the
Exodus from Egypt was a fictional story. There may be true elements, but essentially
it's a fictional story. This is the same David Wolpe who years later posted to his
Facebook page: "Even though the stories of the Torah may not be true, the Torah
is true." What does that mean? I don't know what that means. Something is either
true or it's not true. Something is either factual or it's not factual. I know what
he's trying to say, but it's a childish thing to tell people in the 21st century.
A more recent example of a well-known rabbi equivocating was
in a letter to the editor of the New York Times on July 26, 2013, in
response to an article about Mormon doubters.[2]
Harold Kushner, a Conservative rabbi and author of When Bad Things Happen
to Good People, offered this tip for Mormon leaders:
Might I suggest that they use the tactic used by many modern Jews
dealing with biblical narratives that defy credulity, from a six-day story of creation
to Jonah living inside a large fish. We distinguish between left-brain narratives
(meant to convey factual truth) and right-brain narratives (meant to make a point
through a story; the message will be true even if the story isn't factually defensible).
What seems childish to Jacob but acceptable to Rabbi Kushner
is also acceptable and common in Christian circles—the words "factual" and
"true" are often used to mean different things. The Christian theologian Marcus
Borg, in a Washington Post "On Faith" column about explaining Bible stories
to children, instructs his readers on how to distinguish between the concepts of
"fact" and "truth":
If and when they ask, "Is that a true story?" they may be asking,
"Did that really happen?" But you don't have to answer that question. You can say,
"I don't know if it happened that way or not, but I know this is an important and
truthful story.". . . Of course, the Bible and other sacred scriptures are not fairy
tales—but we make a mistake when we think that stories must be factually true in
order to be true and truthful.[3]
The conservative clergy's take on this semantic issue is quite
different, as we shall see in the next section.
15. The Plight of the Literals: Dealing with the Challenges
Daniel C. Dennett
Many commentators have noted a telling symmetry. Fundamentalists
and other defenders of the literal truth of the Bible agree with the New Atheists
on one thing: Truth claims need to be taken seriously—which means they must be evaluated
as true or false, not merely interpreted as metaphors and symbols. Liberal clergy,
as noted, are squeezed between these two opposing adherents of the "put up or shut
up" school of interpretation. The liberals think both extremes are simplistic; it's
complicated, they say. The New Atheists have shrugged off this charge, accusing
the liberal apologists of creating a pseudointellectual smokescreen to cover their
retreat, and here the symmetry is extended, since that is also the opinion of many
fundamentalists and other conservatives. One nonbeliever (Hugh, a Seventh-day
Adventist student in his twenties) calls liberal Christianity "pseudo-Christianity"
and adds
One of the things that frustrates me in debate with [liberal]
Christians is that they are willing to adjust and remold their religion just to
preserve its existence, not really its integrity. And that's basically because they
want the assurance that they're going to Heaven someday.
He must be wrong about the "basic motive" of many of the liberals.
Whatever solace they may get from their allegiance, it isn't the hope of reuniting
with loved ones or meeting Jesus in Heaven, since they consider Heaven as much a
myth as Christ's Resurrection or walking on water. But his opinion that the "remolding"
of their religion jeopardizes its integrity is widely shared. His version is particularly
demanding.
I don't think you can just make the Bible say whatever you want
it to say. I don't think that's an intellectually honest thing. And that's why I
have left the Christian religion. I think I've done the intellectually honest thing.
Michael, the lapsed Seventh-day Adventist, thinks the motive
of the liberals is "using the word 'God' to reach people."
If I wanted to use the word "God" . . . I can say, "Well, to me,
God is like a concept of what's ultimate reality." But to me, that's not God, that's
ultimate reality. To me, it's a little bit underhanded to use God in that way.
Linda challenges him:
Linda: What makes it underhanded, in your estimation?
Michael: Again, it's how I was raised. I was raised
[to believe] that God is a being—a supernatural being who is creator of the Universe.
Linda: It seems wrong to you even though you don't accept
it anymore?
Michael: Yeah. To me, that's God, and that's why I don't
believe there is a God, because I don't see enough evidence to back that
up.
Linda asks Dave, the nonbelieving Baptist missionary, whether
he could imagine switching to a more liberal church.
Dave: It would not be appealing to me at all. Many of the
stories I'm referring to are not just Old Testament fables. Jesus quoted Jonah and
the whale.[4]
I don't believe for a second that Jesus said that.
Linda: It sounds like, for you, it's really all
or nothing.
Dave: Yes. To me, and as I think Sam Harris has
said, liberal theology is a lack of understanding of the Scriptures. People who
are liberals are bringing modernism into their own understanding of the Scriptures
and picking and choosing. I don't think that's a valid way of looking at the Scriptures.
Linda: OK, let's say Jesus existed. He was a real person,
and let's say he dies on the cross, but he didn't die for our sins. He didn't die
and rise again. He wasn't born of a virgin. But he's this guy from antiquity who
has had a huge effect on our lives, and he said a lot of good things. Can't we have
a religion based around that guy?
Dave: I guess you could. I wouldn't be part of it [laughing].
Then he softens his view of ecclesiastical liberalism somewhat:
"If that works for them, fine. As long as they're not out there beating on doors
and condemning people to Hell for not believing like them."
Candice, the nonbelieving Roman Catholic seminary graduate,
has little patience with liberal theologians:
That phrase, "I choose to call this 'God'," I heard
time and time and time again from theologians. It's their emerging concept of God—that
God is kind of a different thing for every different group. I don't think most people
would appreciate it. We're talking about an emerging polytheism. That's really what
they're speaking of—of God continuously being manufactured for the individual. It's
very self-centered.
She finds the liberal position she encountered in seminary
frustrating and comes up with a devastating metaphor for the way the liberals adjust
their positions.
People start talking about God not in terms of this anthropomorphized
deity from the Old and New Testaments but . . . as a transcendent, loving
being that doesn't have a physical body—that's this creative force in the universe.
When I listen to liberals talk like that now, it really frustrates me, because it's
a cop-out. It's like you're constantly rearranging. It's like God is a Rubik's Cube,
and they're constantly trying to get it into the perfect vision of this deity. And
it's never going to happen. So in their desperation they're peeling the stickers
off to rearrange it.
To Candice, liberal theology is too easy to count as a serious
creed, and this opinion is echoed by those literals who recall the triumph of confronting
the glaring problems of their creeds and defiantly endorsing them—in effect doubling
down on Pascal's Wager. It's supposed to be hard.
Brian, the Lutheran seminary dropout, puts it this way:
The difficult facts are treated as a challenge: Can your faith
withstand this? Let me rephrase it: The truth of the religion is never allowed to
be questioned, so inconvenient facts fit into the category of almost a dare. The
platitude is, "Well, here is a fact that you might consider problematic, but if
you can't integrate this and keep your religious worldview, it's a failure of faith."
There is a "creedal athleticism" that is an
appealing feature of some religions.[5]
It provides a costly signaling system—like the peacock's tail, or the giant
antlers of the extinct Irish elk—for the literals to use in advertising their devotion,
and also gives them a sense of community differing from that of the liberals. The
liberals are a community whose members are bound together by their ceremonies, whereas
the literals are an army, their loins girded by their faith. To many of them, liberal
Christians are self-indulgent aesthetes, not really committed to their religion.
In less diplomatic moments, they dismiss liberal Christians as atheists in disguise.
This moral disapproval of sophisticated theology is not new.
The creed of the early 20th century Catholic/agnostic philosopher George
Santayana was caricatured as "There is no God, and Mary is His Mother," and his
combination of allegiance to Catholic themes and rituals with near-atheism was regarded
with deep disapproval not only by conservative Christians but by his generally open-minded
Harvard mentor, William James.
As we saw in the section on seminary professors, liberals
recognize the suspicion their clever circumlocutions often arouse, and they doubtless
envy the bluff candor with which the literals can present their beliefs to potential
converts. As Stan, the military chaplain, put it:
My colleagues and clergy friends would ridicule fundamentalists,
but at some point I came to realize they are preaching and teaching what they believe.
If you read the Bible, they are actually being consistent in what they're teaching
or they're believing. We're the ones who are sugarcoating it and trying to contextualize
it and put it in other language, and we don't really mean what we say. And at some
point, that just felt kind of mentally weak.
At the same time, liberals are relieved of the literals' burden
of having to assert, with straight faces, belief in all the miracles in the Bible,
and having to deny flat-out the obvious scientific truths of evolution in the face
of mounting supporting evidence. The more literal your beliefs in the powers of
an all-loving God, the more frequent the occasions for disillusionment. Dave, the
Baptist missionary, trying to console a convert who wants children but can't
get his wife pregnant, notes that disbelief ". . . begins to make sense to me. Why
would a loving God give children to people who are going to abuse them, or might
kill them, but not to people who would love them and nurture them?" Once he had
accepted his disbelief, he could confess what had long been bothering him:
"Just not having to defend all that crazy stuff is a great blessing."
Which project would you prefer to take on? Getting people to
believe that the Bible stories are literally true, or getting people to understand
the sophisticated idea that legends can be factually false but nevertheless carry
an important moral message? George, the former Greek Orthodox monk, says:
The appeal of [Greek] Orthodoxy to me—and I think this is the
appeal of any kind of traditional religion—is that it gives you a set of authoritative
answers to everything. Everything! And once you reject that, or once you distance
yourself from that, then how do you make sense of anything? And then if you come
to any of the big contentious questions of modern life, how do you deal with those?
Even the Orthodox are tempted to fudge their answers.
It seems like the obvious question: "Well, did evolution happen,
and if it did, how does it square with the account in Genesis?" It seems to me that
that's the elephant in the room. And what Orthodox intellectuals would do would
be to consider the question so abstractly that the question was left unanswered.
When I was teaching Genesis myself in seminary, I was able to perform the same
kind of magic trick—a sort of distraction: "Well, I'm going to talk over here, and
it's all going to sound very smart, but it's not actually addressing the question."
In fact, the only students I ever had that did insist [on the question of evolution
being addressed] was in a Sunday school class, because the kids would want an answer,
and they would not allow me to get all abstract.
One of the forces maintaining the ironclad literalism of some
conservative denominations is the fact that any relaxation of it within the denomination
can have the opposite effect from the one intended. Instead of making it easier
for doubters in the flock to accommodate to the creed, it can ignite the fuse of
doubt and trigger an avalanche of disbelief. One of the eye-opening moments for
Joe the Mormon was reading an article in a liberal Mormon magazine that broached
the idea of there being only metaphorical truth in some point of LDS doctrine. This
led Joe to a liberal Mormon online chat room (not one of the many anti-Mormon
and ex-Mormon Web sites), which strengthened and elaborated his doubts. Similarly,
it was an article in a liberal Adventist magazine that shook Michael from his innocence.
So conservatives are perhaps more vulnerable to well-meaning attempts from within
their own denominations than to skeptical assaults from outside the faith.
Jerry DeWitt ("Johnny" in Appendix A), a lapsed Pentecostal
pastor who gave us permission to use his real name, described his vain attempts
to integrate his new secular learning with his understanding of God.
Now, at the same time that I'm trying to hold on to God, I'm still
watching Professor Dennett, I'm still watching Professor Dawkins. All these other
things are still going on at the same time, chiseling away, pestering me like flies
around my head. So, I got to the point where I said, "Well, maybe it just is that
God is in everybody." Then, recalling things that I had studied several years ago
with Joseph Campbell, about mythology and comparative religion, I finally made that
last little click. I finally said, "Well, the reason that we feel like God
is in everyone is because really God is an internal dialogue that cultures have,
that human beings naturally have, that we've evolved to have."
After he left his church and went public with his disbelief,
he illustrated his exodus from fundamentalist Christianity using his own self-administered
five-step program. His journey began with his difficulty in accepting that God,
supposedly all-loving, could deny Heaven to so many people. Starting with that apparently
flagrantly contradictory premise, he softened it, softened it again, and again,
and again—arriving at Richard Dawkins' frank atheism.
1. God loves everybody.
2. God saves everybody.
3. God is in everybody.
4. God is everyone's internal dialogue.
5. God is a delusion.[6]
Notice that this transposition depends on beginning with a
literal, unmetaphorical interpretation of God's love. It is easy enough to maintain
premise #1 if you get to declare it a symbolic utterance that doesn't literally
mean that God loves every human being the way a parent loves a child. But if you
are a literalist, something else has to give, and this leads down the ladder to
proposition #5.
Liberals and literals alike find it increasingly difficult to
execute the strategies that have heretofore sufficed to keep their institutions
viable for centuries, and unsurprisingly they are not eager to try altogether new
approaches. Their predicament can be illuminated by comparison with another institution
hard-pressed to maintain itself.
Plimoth Plantation is a living museum in Plymouth, Massachusetts,
that has educated and delighted visitors for more than half a century with its meticulous
re-creation and reenactment of the original Pilgrim colony. The calendar is set
at 1627 and costumed actors assume specific identities drawn from the records of
the time, occupying the houses, tilling the fields, tending the gardens, spinning
and baking and blacksmithing. (Of course. when the museum closes they drive
home to their 21st-century air-conditioned houses and televisions.) The
lives of the identities they adopt have been extensively researched and internalized,
so that museumgoers can adopt the perspective of a time-machine visitor and engage
any inhabitants in a friendly discussion of their lives, their families, where they
came from in England, what they wear and eat, how they garden, fish, and build
their houses, and every other detail of 17th century life. The inhabitants
will not respond to questions about modern times, modern technology, or the Red
Sox, but they have a lot to say about their dreams for the "future," their gripes,
their illnesses, their remedies, and their religious beliefs and practices. It is
an enchanting experience for all, and, of course, nobody believes that we have
really been whisked back to 1627. It's all make-believe of the highest caliber,
and Plimoth Plantation is so obviously a good institution with worthy goals and
high standards that it would be the equivalent of stupid vandalism to disrupt the
museumgoing experience by chanting, "Not true! It's all fantasy! Hey, Miles Standish,
where do you keep your cell phone while you're performing?"
Will Plimoth Plantation—a nonprofit educational institution that
would welcome your support—survive for another century or more? Will there continue
to be enough people to take on all the roles, preserve the traditions, repair the
exhibits, and enough visitors to support the institution with their entry fees?
We can all hope so.
Many churchgoers have a similar attitude toward their churches,
and so do many former churchgoers who have changed their habits but not their allegiances.
They see their denominations as worthy institutions that deserve our support for
the good they do. As for the fact that it's all make-believe—well so what?
Many good things are all make-believe. Church is morally uplifting theater, with
rich traditions of music and ceremony, at least as socially valuable as grand opera
or Shakespeare. Yelling "Lies!" in a crowded theater is almost as indefensible an
act of free speech as yelling "Fire!"
Why doesn't everybody see it this way? We can answer that by
imagining, thought-experimentally, some alterations to Plimoth Plantation. What
if some of the actors playing roles fell in love, decided to have children, and
then to raise their children in ersatz 1627within the walls of Plimoth Plantation,
twenty-four hours a day? No vaccinations; no learning 21st -century history,
science, music; no playing baseball or tennis—just to mention a few obvious deprivations.
This would clearly be child abuse and utterly indefensible. Plimoth Plantation's
make-believe is informed, voluntary, and enforced only during visiting hours, and
these are not optional features when it comes to our approval of the institution.[7]
If churches could adopt the same features, they would be as unproblematically benign
as Plimoth Plantation, but few if any apologists for churches are prepared
to acknowledge that their ceremonies and creeds are really just a kind of participatory
theater. There is a powerful reason for this reluctance. Any such acknowledgment,
if it became common knowledge, would instantly diminish the well-nigh hypnotic power
of the rituals by framing them as make-believe, trading in real-life moral adventure
for theme-park thrills and chills.
This threatened diminishment creates a quandary for thoughtful
people who come to see their churches in this light. As our interviews show, some
liberal clergy just can't say out loud, in public, what seems to loom in their reflections:
that "God does not exist." Recall what one correspondent remarked: "According to
your definition of God [as a supernatural being], I am more an atheist than you
are. And yet I adore God!" What can this mean? Perhaps it's like the dedicated Baker
Street Irregular who adores Sherlock Holmes without ever succumbing to the illusion
that Holmes was a real person. Perhaps it means that the concept of God is
adorable.[8]
Then there is former Roman Catholic nun Karen Armstrong's perplexing pronouncement:
"Some theologians call this [divine personality] the God beyond God. And this God
isn't just a being like you or me, or the microphone in front of me, or even the
atom, an unseen being that we can find in our laboratories. What we mean by God
is, some theologians have said, is being itself that is in everything that is around
us and cannot be tied down to one single instance of being."[9]
Perhaps the most charitable interpretation of these curious circumlocutions is that
they are valiant temporizing moves, designed to postpone the day when the fatal
verdict must be delivered and acknowledged by all. If churches can't be effective
without this liberal obfuscation or the literal deception that rivals the stagecraft
of the theater, then they are unlikely to fare well in the transparent age in which
we now live.
16. What Our Participants Gained and Lost As Their Beliefs Changed
Twenty-six participants in the present study were asked
what they had gained and what they had lost as a result of changing their religious
beliefs. The question came toward the end of the interviews and in a few cases afterward,
in writing or over the phone. Our participants responded quickly and easily to this
exercise, in contrast to their demeanor at other points during the interview process,
where they struggled to articulate their thoughts or feelings. They seemed to welcome
the opportunity to talk about the changes in their religious beliefs in terms of
gains and losses, and they expressed themselves clearly and without reservation.
Much of the discussion preceding these questions pertained to
the difficulties and pain that these nonbelievers had experienced along the way.
Those who were still in the clergy were still facing these issues, but their reflections
on what they had gained indicated that they felt freed from pretending to themselves,
even though they continued to pretend to others.
What they typically gained was intellectual honesty, a
concomitant sense of relief that they were not fighting reality, and joy
at being free from the constraints of beliefs that no longer made sense to them.
They could celebrate life and explore the intriguing mysteries of the world around
them. What they typically lost was a certain comfort and closeness with colleagues
and family, a sense of being eternally cared for. Those who had already left the
clergy also lost the status afforded by their former role as authority figures and
sources of wisdom. In some cases, this loss sounded more like a gain, as they described
the limitations imposed by that role which they no longer had to endure.
When we gathered their responses together, we decided that they
were so heartfelt and articulate that they should be presented in their entirety.
The individual responses are herewith recorded in the following order: liberal Protestant,
fundamentalist Protestant, Mormon, Seventh-day Adventist, Roman Catholic, Orthodox, Jewish.

Harry, the former Lutheran and nondenominational pastor
who left the ministry, shortly after being interviewed, to become a secular activist:
I only have everything to gain and nothing to lose, really. It
feels so liberating to be able publicly to get up and say I don't think this works
and that life can be so much better without God. I think life is going to be better
without religion.
The closest I have come to having a religious experience in
many years has been reading about natural selection, and I never expected it to
happen. To just be sitting there, reading books and articles, having your eyes opened,
and realizing, "Yes, this is the way everything around us emerged!" I hate to use
the word "miracle," but to me there can be no greater miracle than how natural selection
has created our world. And how it's created not just the physical structure but
even in terms of how it's impacted our mind, our psyches, who we are as people.
It's been absolutely thrilling, and I can't wait to read more about it.
The theodicy issue no longer torments me. I don't have to reconcile
an all-loving God with the suffering in the world, because there's nothing to reconcile
anymore, and that's been liberating. I'm not tormented by the silence of God in
any face of pain, because it's just not a factor. I really don't miss the mindless
ritual that was enacted each week in my previous denomination. I don't miss the
sense that even in denominations where there's an emphasis on the loving, gracious
God, there's still a nagging feeling that you cannot measure up no matter what.
It's always there. You open the service with something they call the Brief Order
of Confession: "I confess that I am by nature sinful. I sinned against you in thought,
word, and deed." That's how you begin worship every week, even in the liturgies
of some of the more progressive mainline churches. And that's very oppressive, to
think that in some way, shape, or form you are unacceptable to this supposedly loving
deity. . . and you can't really measure up. no matter what. It's nice to
be free of that.
And what he has lost:
There will be some relationships that I will lose—some former
colleagues I'm still in contact with, who might not be onboard with this. But my
really good friends will be with me. And my family and my mom—even if she doesn't
understand, she's really good in the unconditional love department.

Carl, the "womb-to-tomb" Lutheran:
I gained new understandings, new horizons, the freedom to say,
"Nothing is off-limits"—that if I find it helpful to read Harris, or Dawkins, or
Borg, and so on, that there's something exciting about the journey in that. I gained
a sense of personal integrity, but it's tough—tough to maintain that, just kind
of staying the course. I've gained some humility, I think, realizing how big this
is, so much bigger than me, so much bigger than the tradition I've been a part of.
I've lost naïveté. I lost unbridled enthusiasm for the tradition,
for the teachings, just head-over-heels joy in being a part of this—a kind of simple
joy. I lost, I think, associations with other clergy. I've chosen to distance myself
a bit when I've tested things and have sort of felt rebuffed. So I feel lonelier
in this by far than I would have ten, twelve, fifteen years ago. I lost peace of
mind—you know, "This is what I'm going to do." It's good, although I think I've
always been somewhat restless.

Brian, the Lutheran who left the seminary on his
first day there and never looked back:
[A life in the ministry] seemed to be a bullet that I was really
lucky to have dodged, and I didn't know how lucky I was at the time to have avoided
it.

Winnie, the Presbyterian pastor who left many years
ago to pursue a doctorate in another field:
I gained my sanity. I feel I gained more integrity. I've gained
a sense that there is no one organizing principle, and that's kind of a loss, because
I'd like to think that I've gained some certainty in my life where I am now, some
stability. I think I have stability.

Stan, the Disciples of Christ military chaplain, who
left the ministry and entered graduate school to train for another career:
I've gained, I feel, this radical independence to think for myself,
to make my own choices. The world is fascinating and beautiful and wonderful in
itself. I've gained an appreciation for the natural order, for us as a species.
In fact, it makes me feel more connected to people and want to do more good for
people. I have more compassion for people, and also, being in a war zone, more contempt
for. . . forces that would try to enslave people's bodies or their gender or their
mind. There's a sense of a greater clarity of right and wrong, and being accountable
and responsible not only to the natural world but to my fellow humans and the animal
world. Trying to be more responsible about that, and more appreciative. It almost
feels like I've been out in the sun and I walk into a room and I can't see. And
then all of a sudden my eyes adjust to the light and reality, and I feel like the
blinders are off.
So, yes, there's sadness about what's been left behind, but
I'm thinking I'm still young, and I've got the rest of my life to do something positive.
I think that's what I've gained.
I feel liberated, and I also feel some grief. Because the temptation
is to say, "Well. I just wasted the last eighteen years of my life." But
I don't want to look at it that way. Yes, I feel like I have missed out on some
things, in terms of education—what I could have perhaps done earlier. Thinking or
reading or other pursuits that may have come my way if I had chosen to leave seminary
and gone to another field, things maybe I could have written or contributed to society,
to the world. I feel that I have wasted some of that time. There is a sadness.
I could quote Christopher Hitchens. He was in some debate and
he said he's glad, he's happy, that there is no God. And looking back, I genuinely
wanted there to be a God. Because God for me was not this punisher who sent people
to Hell but this loving parent figure that cared for you. I can understand, based
on my background, why that was so attractive. So I think there's the loss of that,
which is a grief. I've lost the idea that there's something out there, that there's
someone out there in control of the universe but also very, very personally concerned
for my life.

Andy, a former Southern Baptist and now a United Church
of Christ pastor, who hopes that Jesus can become a "bridge" leading to a liberalization
of religion, and who plans to stay in the clergy until retirement:
I've gained a lot more than I've lost. . . . Well, I think the
clear gain is that I feel good about the educational process I've had, which is
to take the mind as far as it will go. I don't imagine I'll ever go back to believing—but
I'm still developing. It could be that there'd be a time when I become just
a flat-out atheist.
I prize the academic world; I prize being honest with myself
about where my research and my thought is taking me. That's been a very warming
thing. I have, I think, gained an appreciation through this, oddly enough, for conservatives
and fundamentalists, to the point where I will fight for their inclusion in the
body [of faith traditions], if they're not aggressive and if they don't want to
change everybody. Oddly enough, I think I stand more for an inclusive Church than
many of my UCC brothers and sisters in the pulpit. And maybe that's because of my
coming out of that [fundamentalism]. It has helped me appreciate that. But with
limits. I don't want somebody telling me I'm going to Hell and threatening me that
way. But your voice will be heard there, and you'll be allowed to be a part of the
discussion. I don't see that going on with liberal UCC clergy. So I've gained that
appreciation for my former home, theologically.
I've certainly gained materially [switching to UCC], which is
not a primary thing for me, but I have gained. The Baptist Church doesn't pay much.
I've lost a little bit of innocence, and by that I mean I can
say without guilt that I lie. And to me, that suggests that I've got used to it
[lying], so I'm hardened to it. I don't remember, but at first, I would imagine,
I felt guilty about that. However, I've gotten so used to it that I don't feel guilty
about it. I almost feel guilty about not feeling guilty, if that makes any sense.
And that, to me, even presents somewhat of a loss of the childlike innocence of,
"Wow, look at this world! And I'm here, I'm here, and this is what I see." Just
the innocence of being childlike and totally honest and truthful.
What else have I lost? Part of that loss of innocence is that
I've lost the fear of being discovered and found out. I guess that comes with age.
I have several more years—but oh, well. It's not that I want to broadcast and get
caught. I think some people want to get caught, but I'm not at that point. But I've
lost the fear of losing my job or my career, because I feel pretty safe in my lies
and the careful footing I have established.

Caitlin, an Episcopal pastor in her sixties:
What I've gained is freedom to speak uncensored. That's the case,
however, only because I have retired from all parochial work, but for an occasional
talk to the Unitarian Universalist Church, where I get to try out all my new material.
I've gained a certain congruence. To know the sacredness of
all life without having to attribute it to divine agency is a relief.
I have my Sunday mornings back, and a release from a pretty
pervasive anxiety about everything I wasn't managing to accomplish.
I have lost a collegiality among fellow clergy. It's not that
they don't like me or want to be in my company, but I am uncomfortable with church
talk, God talk, General Conventions, and so on. I have lost the capacity to go to
the rail for Communion, which cuts me out of quite a few church services. As clergy,
I was/am expected to process with clergy, to take Communion with clergy, and so
on, and I don't really want to draw attention to myself by not vesting, or by vesting
and not receiving.
My colleagues don't really know my current thinking, because
I haven't shared it, and no one has asked.

Bill, the Episcopal pastor in a college town, now in
his fifties and planning to remain a pastor until retirement:
There's a kind of joy I have experienced in . . . being more and
more human, fully human. And if I could put it negatively, I would say that religious
faith, religion, robs the human spirit, the human being, from realizing the fullness
of humanity. That is, it does the exact opposite of what it claims to do. It's easier
to talk about that kind of religion robbing the person of fullness when you're using
the fundamentalists as an example. But the real challenge, of course, is to get
to the place where I am, and where many are, where there is really joy and happiness
and the absence of fear, of living and dying.
It's hard for me to talk about the losses now. I think they
were incremental losses. The losses were a sense of a certain identity, a solid
identity. The loss of security, even security blankets; the loss of that safety
net that protects one from the deep anxiety about living and dying. Those were significant
losses, and I think probably there was pain and grief involved in all of that—particularly
the loss of certainty. That happened pretty early on in my life. But there was always
a searching. Like any human being, I missed that security, and I desired that, and
I wanted that very deeply. And every time I returned to that security, I would realize
it was a façade. It was not real. I believe eventually that helped me with others.

Jim, one of the two Episcopal priests interviewed
as a believer:
[If I became a nonbeliever], I'd probably gain an easier life,
in some ways. The life I lead right now is very challenging. I don't know of many
jobs that are as difficult as the job I have, and I've had it a long time. I might
gain income ultimately, once I made the transition. Who knows, maybe I'd find a
more satisfying vocation, because there are times when I'm like, "Why am I doing
this?" I really think I'd be happier in another field. But that ship has sailed.
I mean, happier in the sense that it would be a better fit for my collective skills
and interests.
[As for what he would lose:] Ha! I'd lose my income. I would
lose a sense of purpose that has been with me since I was seventeen. I would lose
a lot of freedom that I currently enjoy as a priest, because I'd have to go work
in a cubicle somewhere, which is horrifying to me. I suppose I would lose my prayer
life, and that would not be good.

Charles, the Episcopal hospital chaplain who moved
from fundamentalism to liberal Christianity; the other Episcopal cleric interviewed
as a believer:
I think what I've gained [since changing from a fundamentalist
to a liberal] is a greater appreciation for the ambiguity and messiness of life,
and hopefully a more compassionate approach to people of different beliefs, knowing
that people are on a life's journey regarding their beliefs and that at any one
moment in time they may believe this, as I did at one time, and then later they
may not believe it. I hope that I can have a greater sense of compassion
for them and recognize that I'm only seeing a snapshot of their life right now and
that this is not the final story. Recently I was playing a game called "Fact or
Crap" with some friends. and I kept thinking, "Are those my only two options?"
The nondualistic approach to life gives me a greater sense of comfort. It can be
both right and wrong at the same time, all at once. It makes things murkier.
What I've lost is a binary approach to believing, to theology—meaning
choosing that it's this way or the other way—and in that, I've lost some certainty.

Tammie, a Methodist pastor who left the ministry shortly
after being interviewed:
It's funny to think that I have gained peace, because that's what
Christianity promises—"Now my peace I give unto you," and all the things that Christ
ever said about peace—but that's the first thing I've gained. Even in the middle
of all the conflict of my emotions about integrity, I still feel very peaceful.
I feel like finally the pieces fit, that things make sense and I don't have to ignore
certain things or rationalize them.
I feel like I've lost a lot of time, a lot of money, education,
and so on. I've potentially lost friendships.
Experiences, especially in a sense of childhood experiences.
I spent most of my time passionately studying the Bible and wanting to fit in this
mold for a long, long time—from the time I was very young. So I didn't enjoy a lot
of things that kids enjoy; I grew up way too fast, took things too seriously, and
a lot of that is because of the faith. It was a serious time, and people were dying
without Jesus. and they were going to suffer eternally, and it was my mission
as a Christian to keep that from happening at all costs.
We've done so many things—and we've stepped out on faith to
do them—that have been financially negative for our family, believing that God will
take care of us. So I feel guilt that I've robbed my kids of certain things.
I've lost people and relationships that I know are going to
be gone. I'll lose a sense of community, a sense of belonging, a sense of identity—something
that I don't know how to exist apart from, really.

Jeb, the former Southern Baptist pastor who left the
church four decades ago; he is now a secular activist:
What I gained is a normal life, full of joie de vivre,
and the ability to explore and weigh evidence on a multitude of subjects without
being shackled by an unwarranted assumption that all the important things in life
had already been "revealed" by an inaccurate bit of writing from millennia ago.
I have also been able to use my inherent therapeutic orientation and platform skills
to reach a much wider audience than in the pastorate.
Leaving the ministry was at once the most challenging decision
I've ever made—and the most rewarding.
What I lost was my marriage, a lot of my former friends, and
a guilt-ridden lifestyle into which I was born and in which I was raised. Plus a
forum in which my natural skills found easy expression.

Dave, the Baptist missionary. He left the ministry
shortly after being interviewed and now has a secular job.
What I've gained is absolute freedom, outside of the fact that
I'm still in the closet [about lack of belief]. But I just can't begin to tell you,
looking at a person here in the mission field and knowing that they are not going
to die and go to Hell, that's just the best thing. The gain is myself again, which
I never had before.
What I have lost is the feeling that I'm not alone, because
right now I feel really alone. . . . The Clergy Project will help in some aspects
of that.
Just being able to tell your thoughts and feelings [to God]
without any judgment was a nice thing, and knowing someone truly loved me was a
nice thing, and I do miss that. But I try now to apply that to myself, because it
was all in my head anyway. And so, without talking to myself, I try to do it in
my thought processes—that I am somebody and I have things to contribute.

Pete, the Pentecostal student who left pastoral training
in his early twenties. Now a part-time college student in an unrelated field:
I gained an appreciation for life in the here and now. Perhaps
I've become slightly hedonistic, since I believe this is the one and only life I
have. So I enjoy food more, and strong drinks, and dinner with my wife. I've taken
my career plans much more seriously, for better or for worse. Since I'm not concerned
about the afterlife and pleasing a god, I've been able to hone my craft and become
somewhat successful at my work. I didn't have the time or concern for that when
I was all religious. It was too worldly.
I've gained a deeper richness in the friendships I've maintained.
Many of us came out of religion together, or around the same time, and so
we have a shared bond and acceptance in that. I've gained more empathy for others,
because I don't see them as souls to be converted but, rather, as human beings
struggling to get by in a life that is often very hard. There's definitely a newfound
urgency to life that wasn't there [before]. It's as if I can feel the clock ticking,
so I frequently think about the end of my days. I'm almost daily trying to make
sure that what I'm doing now will align with a life of no regrets seventy
years from now. In many ways, I skipped over my life before, when I was religious;
seventy years was nothing, compared to an eternity with God, so why trouble myself
with the here and now? I'm glad to have the newfound appreciation for today and
the people I'm with.
I've lost a lot of things Alain de Botton discusses in his book
Religion for Atheists. Things that aren't particular to religion intrinsically
but, rather, areas that have gone unaddressed by secular society because
they've been within the purview of religion. I don't have a place to really discuss
morality or ethics. I also don't have anyone exhorting me to be more moral. Not
that I view the concerns of the church as aligning with morality, but I just mean
the general impetus. I'm less reflective and meditative, since I don't set aside
quiet time anymore. I've lost a lot of friends. They weren't good friends,
so it's been OK. But church provides an avenue to meet a lot of new people and form
relationships pretty quickly and organically. I don't really have a venue for forming
new relationships anymore, besides maybe the workplace.
I've lost a lot of self-righteousness, certainty, and pretension.
I've lost a sense of moral superiority. I've also lost most absolutes and very binary
thinking. I've lost superstition and guilt.

"Johnny" [Jerry DeWitt], a Pentecostal pastor
who left the ministry shortly after being interviewed; now a secular activist:
I feel like I've gained myself. I actually wrote a little letter
to Professor Dawkins—knowing he probably would never see it but throwing it out
there anyway—and basically told him that all of his videos, all of his media, all
of his books . . . really redeemed my family's life. I think it brought back what
we had before we got messed up, or what we could have had before we got distracted.
Once we're no longer obligated—and we're closer now then we've
ever been—to follow this cultural pattern, then the door is wide open to make our
own direction, to go our own direction. You know, there's a lot of emotional misery
inside religion that people don't emphasize, which you don't have when you're out
of it. So I feel like listening to the logic, the reasoning. Whether it's Professor
Dennett or Professor Dawkins, listening to that forced me to come to conclusions,
forced me to be honest. You know, it's almost like Professor Dawkins is saying,
"Here it is; now what are you going to do with it? Now what will you say? Will you
go back and lie to yourself, lie to other people, or will you admit that this is
true?" And in admitting it, it really did redeem our lives.
I've lost that invisible friend. I've lost eternal life, living
forever. I've lost control—a belief in control, of being able to manipulate situations.
I was young and naïve enough to believe I could manipulate the weather if I could
just pray fast and hard enough. I've lost all of that. I'm now at the whim of nature
and reality, just like everybody else. The tornado may or may not kill me; there's
nothing I can do about it other than get underground. I've really lost a sense of
control, a sense of empowerment. And the social side of it: I've lost the prestige;
I've lost being able to run for mayor; I've lost the chance to pastor that thousand-member
church that I was in line for; I've lost possibilities; I've lost income; I've lost
a lot by not believing.
I feel like I'm coming back to when I was about fifteen years
old, and I'm starting to figure out who I am again. And I'm starting to plan a future
based on my likes, my motivation, my personality, where that's not what I've done
for the last twenty years.

Joe, the Mormon bishop halfway through his five-year
commitment, who will remain a Mormon but does not intend to accept other Church
positions when his current commitment ends:
I've gained more freedom in how I choose to act and what I believe.
I've gained a more nuanced view of faith and all religious experience. I've gained
new respect for atheists, agnostics, intellectuals, LGBT individuals, liberals,
and feminists. Instead of seeing them as misguided, or even as enemies, I now see
them as people just like me. They are my neighbors now, and I can more honestly
say that I love them and accept them for who they are. I have gained many new friendships
with people—friendships that I otherwise would not have had. My life is much richer
and vibrant. I see a full spectrum of colors rather than just everything and everyone
in black and white. I am more relaxed and happier than I have ever been. I'm able
to filter what is beautiful about my faith from what is harmful and in some cases
destructive. I've gained more comfort, patience, and acceptance of myself. I've
gained more confidence to just be me and not worry so much about what others think.
I have found new purpose and meaning and mission in my life.
I lost mental health and wellness, for a while. I developed
an anxiety disorder that lasted a little over a year and had to go on medication.
It affected me physically. I was drained. Couldn't eat. Couldn't sleep. I lost some
stability in my relationship with my wife. She believed that now we had "nothing
in common," which really hurt. Our relationship was damaged but, thankfully, not
beyond repair. . . . So some of the things I lost were just temporary. On the whole
I have gained so much more than I have lost. It was hell for a while, but now I
am doing much better.
I lost a romanticized and idealized view of my faith—almost
a loss-of-innocence archetype. I lost my political ideological bearings. I've lost
commitment to religious ritual; I don't feel as much of a need for it. . . . I've
lost the safety of believing I had all the answers.

Walt, a former Mormon bishop who left his bishopric
and the Mormon Church before his five-year commitment ended:
Appreciating the Now. The relationship with my family members.
The ability to trust myself more, to do things and realize I'm the one doing it,
it's not God doing it for me. I'm more capable than I thought I was, and more willing
to take a few business risks that I wouldn't have done otherwise. A lot better self-confidence.
Less guilt. Lack of fear for the next life. I'm pretty sure
that it's going to be nothing, and I'm OK with that, too. No one's standing on the
other side who's going to chastise me for anything.

Michael, the Seventh-day Adventist pastor; he is on
a leave of absence and does not plan to return to the ministry:
I think I've gained a lot more freedom. I think I've gained a
better understanding of who I am as an individual. . . . A lot more freedom to pursue
what I choose to pursue, and it's hard for me to do that, because I've always been
told, or had the mindset, that God's will is what I'm supposed to do, and that I
need to find what God's will is and then just do it. To have the total freedom to
pursue what I want to pursue is hard for me to get my head around. . . . I'll probably
know more once I get more ducks in a row and I get figured out where I'm going.
There's a lot of uncertainty right now.
There's a loss of ignorance. That sounds egotistical, but I
think that's true. There's loss of —I don't know if "understanding" is the word—but
kind of a compassion for people who are still stuck in it. It bothers me that intelligent
people don't keep searching, that they're content to say, "Well, I don't know—you
know, God did it, and we'll understand by and by." That bothers me. I've lost freedom
and openness with my social group, with the group that raised me, with my parents,
with my friends. I cannot be myself; I've lost that.

Hugh, a Seventh-day Adventist religion student in his
twenties who decided not to pursue the ministry:
I gained my freedom back, and I have to say that, very honestly,
I feel like my life is back in my hands now and that I can make the decisions I
want to make and I don't have to appeal to the Bible. I don't have to look to God
for permission. I really feel like I actually have my free will back, which is great.
. . . I'm able to navigate these problems on my own now and not have to look to
some kind of authoritative Scripture.
Drinking beer.
I've lost a lot of the answers to life's biggest questions:
Where did we come from? Why are we here? Where are we going, and how should we act
in the meantime? Those questions were all answered for me by religion. But now I
actually have to think about them myself and try to draw my own conclusions. And
they're big questions. So I've lost that, and in some ways I do feel like it's a
loss. because I don't have a firm framework always to make my decisions and
a way to view the world. But in some ways it's almost better, because my view of
the world and my answers to those questions are constantly changing and adapting
and evolving and getting better
I've lost some employment prospects that I otherwise would have
had studying theology.
Romantic prospects: All of my close girlfriends believe things
that I find absurd, so in my view they're not really on the table.

Glen, the gay Roman Catholic parish priest on a leave
of absence; he has no plans to return to the Church:
I've lost community. I've lost the comfort of those immediate
relationships that are formed just because you're clergy and people know you're
clergy, so you know where you stand with people. I've lost respect. I've gained
so much more. I've gained a freedom to be myself.
I've gained a freedom to be authentic. For the first time in
my life. I've actually come out to some people as a gay man. I've really
gained the authenticity, the freedom. I've gained—this may sound strange—but I've
gained in self-esteem.
I realize I don't need to wear a collar to feel good about myself.
I don't need to be a Catholic priest, or a Catholic, to feel good about myself.
I don't need to think of myself as loved by some mysterious supernatural being to
be a person of value. I don't need to seek a super-logical Daddy figure to make
up for my own absent Daddy figure. I haven't really replaced it with another figure,
I just realize I don't need it.

Tony, another Roman Catholic parish priest, also gay,
who left the priesthood several years ago:
I gained myself. I really did! I gained my integrity. I've always
been somebody who seeks the truth—that's what sent me into the Church. I said, "I've
got to understand what's true about this Church before I leave it completely, because
I was raised in it." I just went to the extreme of becoming a priest in the process.
I gained my mental health. I gained my peace with who I am.
I gained my ability to love and be loved—the very thing religion says it's about.
It didn't give that to me, as a gay man; it gave me the opposite—it taught me to
loathe and be loathed. I gained this incredible relationship that I have with my
partner. I gained a family, in that sense. I gained my self-respect. I gained a
whole new career possibility. Who knows what will happen with it? I gained this
great relationship with another friend of mine from seminary, who has left, who
was one of my best friends there, who has also come through pretty much all the
same things I have, in terms of leaving the priesthood. I gained the ability
to help people like him. When he was suicidal, I flew to see him, and I nursed him
to health for a week and made sure that he realized there were options. Just like
a few priests had done for me on the phone, people who are still priests, but they
nonetheless talked me down. So I gained the ability to help people like me, which
I didn't have before. I thought I was doing it, but I wasn't. I was actually poisoning
them, as people had poisoned me before—people like me within the Church, these priests
who kept passing on these generations of ways that they have been taught to control,
to be in control, then remain celibate in the Church, and voiceless and ball-less.
I gained my balls; I gained my manhood. I gained the respect
of not only myself but of my family, these people who have stood by me. They're
like, "You know, this all makes sense. You've made some hard choices in your life."
I gained the ability to communicate. I mean, I was always a communicator but I didn't
really communicate about these things. I regained and regained my happiness and
my joy.
I lost a lot of my distortions about myself, about the universe.
I lost financial security when I left. I lost that immediate praise of having that
ready-made community or family. I lost my depression; I lost my self-loathing; I
lost my. . . relationship with one of my siblings. And I lost relationship with
my two best friends from college, and. . . a handful of other people from college
that were friends as well. I lost—and I don't know if this is because I came out
as gay or as an atheist—I lost a friend that I was friends with since kindergarten.
It's very hard.
I guess you could say I lost my prayer life. But to me it was
just another form of masturbation. It was just self-centered. I mean, what's more
self-centered than praying to an imaginary friend about what you need?

Vince, the former Roman Catholic teaching monk, who
left the order a few years after Vatican II:
What did I gain? Just the feeling that I'm really dealing with
reality now. Existence—not the way I'd like it, or imagine it, but just the way
it is. So it's more important than ever to try to make it something I can enjoy
and can get as much as I can out of the life I'm living now, because there is nothing
more coming, and when it's over, it's over.
I guess it's probably easier to think back about what I feel
I lost. Certainly, for many years, I felt the promise of believing that there was
something beyond this existence. It was more than just living our lives on Earth,
there was something to look forward to beyond the present existence. That's definitely
gone now. That would probably be the main thing I lost. And a certain sense that
I had an understanding of what life and existence was about and where it was all
leading to.

Candice, the Roman Catholic seminary graduate who did
not pursue a career in religion; now a secular activist:
I'll start with the positive. I have gained a firmer sense of
reality. I've gained an understanding of what the world is, and I recognize that
as beautiful.
Gone are the mysteries, but that's been replaced with new mysteries,
and I think specifically of things like physics, and the nature of the universe. 
and physics as a cosmology instead of theology.
I feel happy about the knowledge that I gained and the opening
of my mind. It hasn't frightened me. It's made me feel more thankful that I'm alive
and have an opportunity to be alive and experience my own little corner of the universe
vis-à-vis my own physical body and the family I have and the community I live in
and the friends I engage with.
I find it wonderful and pretty much transcendent—I have to use
that word, I guess; it's the one most easily available. And it makes me feel a sense
of happiness for humanity, but also sadness for people who are still trapped by
faith.
When it comes to the things I've lost, they are mostly tied
to music, and some with writing, because a lot of my writing prior to leaving religion
was deeply intertwined with religious imagery and allegory. And when I decided I
didn't believe anymore, I also lost the language and methods that I used to articulate
my experience in my writing. Everything linked to my faith seemed artificial and
out of place.
So there are certain things I feel a longing for. When I was
reading Mary Johnson's book "An Unquenchable Thirst" [the memoir of a former
nun in the order founded by Mother Teresa], I found myself weeping at certain parts
where she would detail her prayer life, because I realized that in some ways I missed
that prayerfulness. Because that process, that way of discerning and introspection,
was very enriching for me. It gave me a way of scrutinizing and decision making
that I still utilize but not in such an engaged way.

George, the Greek Orthodox monk who left the monastery
shortly before being interviewed.
For the first time in my life, everything I do is my own accomplishment,
like getting this jacket. Before, if I needed clothes I'd simply tell the monk doing
the shopping that I needed some underwear, I needed a T-shirt, I needed a new pair
of shoes, and as long as it wasn't anything that was considered a luxury, I'd get
it when they went shopping next time. And I was always grateful that it was that
easy, but at the same time it meant that I didn't own it. And now, having left the
monastery with two shirts, some underwear and the jeans I was wearing, every piece
of clothing I acquire is my own acquisition, and I really feel that it belongs to
me, and I'm grateful for the fact that the Salvation Army does sell clothes dirt
cheap. That's a very prosaic, pedestrian example, but everything I've done
for the past three months has been my own doing. And I've gotten pretty far—I mean,
just from being completely homeless to being in a place that's not ideal but I'm
doing all right. There's a very good chance I'll be accepted into a doctoral program
a year from now; I'm getting a fellowship.
As odd as this sounds, I've gained a clean conscience—the sense
that I may very well be making big mistakes but they're my own mistakes and they're
coming about honestly, in the sense that I am, for the first time in my life, autonomous.
I'm not simply the puppet of the Church. forced to dance the dance I don't
really believe in and mouth words I don't fully embrace. And the fact that I could
be completely wrong is almost exciting. It's like the scientific process: As long
as you're honestly pursuing a worthy goal, every mistake you come along in the process
can be used to advantage. So I've gained a clear conscience, I've gained autonomy,
I've gained a sense of accomplishment, and for the first time I've gained the sense
that I can be responsible for my own life and my own thoughts and my own mistakes.
There's no need to be obedient to authorities I do not recognize, or to teach dogmas
I don't believe in, or to recognize Scripture that is man-made. All of that is really
fairly liberating.
I've lost 99 percent of my material possessions, and 99 percent
of my social network—essentially everything. Everything that I'm wearing is from
thrift shops.

Sherm, the Orthodox rabbi:
I'll start with what I've gained. I've gained a perspective on
the world that I appreciate more. I appreciate the fact that everything is nature
and that there is a natural reason for things. I think this is where I will agree
with Richard Dawkins: The magic of reality is certainly much greater and grander
when you view it in terms of nature than in terms of a God who just snapped his
fingers. To me, it's much more majestic. It's something that I appreciate.
Ultimately I am very, very joyful. We were talking about the
feelings. I don't know if "relief" would be a feeling, but I do think I did feel
relief knowing that if I did something wrong in my life, it's over and now I'm moving
on—it doesn't have eternal repercussions. It's nice to know that—I don't know—watching
a movie is just watching a movie, it's not doing something forbidden. Very simple.
I know, you're probably thinking: "You're not allowed to watch movies?" Well, in
the community I grew up in, you are not allowed to own a TV and you're not allowed
to watch movies.
I've gained a sense of community—that I'm joining a community,
although it's going to be in a very inactive fashion. It's nice to be part of something
where it's almost impossible to question, because the answer "I don't know" doesn't
do anything, doesn't cause any problems. When an atheist doesn't know anything,
we'll have to wait until we figure it out. It's the absence of belief. You're not
believing something, so if you don't know something, . . . that doesn't take a toll
on your way of life. If I don't know the answer to why God does evil things, that
should theoretically take a toll on my religious observance, and it should affect
my religious belief. But there's nothing that can affect your nonbelief.
The gain of intellectual freedom. For sure. And the gain of
perspective, I guess, is something that's changed for me, which I enjoy.
I certainly feel a lot more lonely. I feel a lot more secluded.
These interviews have not been easy on my wife, and I'm hoping that doesn't, you
know, tailspin. But it's been difficult.
I feel that one can have many purposes in life. and as
a believer you are given additional purpose. I am not sure if losing that purpose
is a net gain or net loss—perhaps both.

Jacob, the humanist rabbi, formerly Conservative and
then Reformed; plans to continue in the rabbinate:
The loss has been more than compensated by living in the real
world. Religious people, both liberal and conservative, do not really understand
human nature. That is to say, they may understand or even be experts at human behavior
and relationships, but it is always wrapped in a mythology of one kind or another.
Even the most neutral or liberal mythological interpretations of life are bound
to mischaracterize human nature because, ultimately, they're always posing the wrong
questions—usually phrased, for better or worse, as "What does God want from me?"
Once I abandoned the vestiges of those ideas, I was free to
understand human nature in a way that connects us profoundly to all of the other
life on this planet. In a twist of irony, this has given me a much greater sense
of gratitude for my own life and for our human journey here on Earth. This is not
gratitude to anyone in particular. How could it be? It is, rather, an appreciation
of the chain of fortunate events, from our point of view, that led to our presence
here. I think it was Richard Dawkins who compared being born a human being to winning
a kind of lottery. Given the numbers, it was quite unlikely, but yet it happened.
My humanism, or atheism, actually gives me so much more inspiration
to be a better person. I've shed useless feelings of guilt about so many things,
including sexual feelings, and replaced them with a realistic appreciation for all
of the things I love about being alive. I also have gained a sense of mission to
help make life better for everyone else, including our fellow animals. I am now
enormously aware that there is no one else who can do that. This creates a sense
of responsibility that is both more serious and liberating all at the same time.
As a rabbi, I have lost the authority that I am in some ways
speaking for God. Of course I still possess all of my knowledge about Jewish history
and culture, and this is why I remain a rabbi—a teacher. But it would be dishonest
for me not to acknowledge it as a loss of some kind.




[1]
See " 'Nones' on the Rise," Pew Research Religion & Public Life
Project, October 9, 2012. http://www.pewforum.org/unaffiliated/nones-on-the-rise.aspx


[2]
Laurie Goodstein, "Some Mormons Search the Web and Find Doubt," New York
Times, July 20, 2013.


[3]http://newsweek.washingtonpost.com/onfaith/marcus_borg/2006/12/dont_tell_them_anything_theyll.html


[4]
"For as Jonah was three days and three nights in the whale's belly, so
shall the Son of man be three days and three nights in the heart of the
earth." (Matthew 12:40)


[5]
See Breaking the Spell, pp. 229-30.


[6]
[http://www.livingafterfaith.com/LAF00055AAJerryDewitt.mp3] See also DeWitt's Hope
After Faith (Boston, MA: Da Capo Press, 2013).


[7]
The film The Truman Show conveys other aspects of the immorality of
systematic and involuntary illusion.


[8]
Even atheists can love the concept of God without contradicting themselves. Dan
is quite fond of the concept of the Largest Prime Number, knowing full well
that nothing is, or could be, the Largest Prime Number. In fact, that's why he
likes the concept so much; it makes a fine example in philosophical
discussions.


[9]
http://www.npr.org/2009/09/21/112968197/karen-armstrong-builds-a-case-for-god










VI. Where Are They Now? Checking in with Four Pilot Study Participants
Linda LaScola
We decided to conduct follow-up interviews with the original
five protestant pastors from our pilot study, to see how they were doing three years
later. Because of the many media requests we had fielded after the study was published
in March of 2010, there had been e-mail and phone contact with all of them at one
time or another, but there had been no in-depth conversation about their lives since
the original interviews.
At the time of the follow-up interviews in 2012, all five participants
were still in their positions: Adam and Jack, the two fundamentalist ministers in
the South, were still hoping to get out of the ministry. Darryl, the Presbyterian,
had looked unsuccessfully for other work and had considered Unitarianism. Wes,
the Methodist, and Rick, the UCC campus chaplain, were contentedly continuing their
work. Of the five, only Wes declined the invitation to do a follow-up interview.
Rick, the Post-Supernaturalist Jesus Follower and Atheist
Friend
When the pilot study first came out, Rick, whose real name
is Mark Rutledge, let his friends and colleagues know that he was the United Church
of Christ chaplain who had been interviewed. There was also a story about his part
in the study in his local newspaper, the Raleigh News & Observer:
Rutledge, identified in the study as "Rick," was comfortable enough
to come forward to a reporter with his real name. Unlike the other men—a Southern
Baptist, a Methodist, a Presbyterian and a minister in the independent Church of
Christ—Rutledge fears no retribution. At 76, he says he has never concealed his
views from his denomination, the liberal-leaning United Church of Christ, or from
Duke [University], which pays him a $55-a-month stipend for his part-time duties.
Moreover, Rutledge is proud of his views and wants to share them with the world.
He is frustrated that Dennett and co-author Linda LaScola, both atheists, hold what
he considers such restrictive views of God. [1]
Of his "outing" in the News & Observer, Mark noted:
I do go to these monthly lunch meetings of all the UCC clergy
in the area, and the articles [various reports on the study] were kind of a non-issue.
Right after the local article [about me] appeared, I went to a luncheon. There wasn't
much said about it, but several people came up and said things like "Good article"
and "Thanks for being out there." It was kind of a nonevent.
Mark, now semi-retired as a UCC chaplain at Duke, had always
been open about his beliefs to colleagues and laypeople. Since participating in
the pilot study, he describes himself as a "post-supernaturalist, non-theist
humanist who tries to follow the original [historical] Jesus—the first-century peasant
Jewish wisdom teacher."
This is his effort at being more explicit about his beliefs.
Like all the original participants except for Wes, he joined The Clergy Project,
where he can converse privately online with other nonbelieving clergy. Though he
has not experienced the pain others did when their beliefs changed, he sympathizes
with their plight. He is an advisor to the local Student Secular Association and
teaches adult-education classes that foster communication and understanding between
believers and nonbelievers. He is still active and accepted in the traditional church,
where, as he puts it,
I think I am more liberal than most of the pastors around. In
fact, even the pastor of my own church said, "I might have a little more orthodox
beliefs than you do, but so what? We can tolerate the diversity." But I think I
am to the left, theologically, of even most of the ministers in my denomination.
It's kind of a non-issue with them.
Mark is also tolerant of his religious colleagues' differing
beliefs.
It's not my job to talk a supernaturalist out of believing what
they believe. It would be my job to say, "Here's an alternative," and to those who
want to continue to believe in the supernatural God, fine. I would say we
have many who do and many who don't in our Church family. It's like a like a family
argument. You don't leave the family because you have an argument like that. And
I would say, "We are a family here, and we have diverse views. Let's love each other
and get on with it."
Within his Church community, he sees himself as a useful source
of information about supernaturalism, not an advocate for a particular point of
view.
It's kind of an unending conversation in the Church, and I'm not
trying to talk anybody out of holding supernatural beliefs. I'm saying, "I don't;
here's why; here's the resources to think differently."
He now also keeps up with the secular community. He had dinner
with Richard Dawkins and another member of The Clergy Project when Dawkins came
to the Raleigh area for a speaking engagement. Mark later made a point of visiting
with several former clergy at a conference they were attending in another city.
Darryl, the Presbyterian: Still Playing the Game
Our account of Darryl in the pilot study opened with an excerpt
from an e-mail he sent expressing his interest in participating:
I am interested in this study because I have regular contact in
my circle of colleagues—both ecumenical and Presbyterian—who are also more progressive-minded
than the "party line" of the denomination. We are not "un-believers" in our own
minds—but would not withstand a strict "litmus test" should we be
subjected to one. I want to see this new movement within the church given validity
in some way.
While still considering himself a "Jesus follower," he felt
it was
arguable whether I am also a Christian. . . . I reject the Virgin
Birth. I reject substitutionary atonement. I reject the divinity of Jesus. I reject
heaven and hell in the traditional sense, and I am not alone.
In the follow-up interview, Darryl declared himself disappointed
that the pilot study was not having more of an effect within the church. Without
disclosing that he had been a participant, he presented the study to a clergy group
he meets with regularly.
We talked about it, and they weren't surprised at all that there
would be people you found to talk to. No one else pointed the study out to me in
any dimension, in any conversations that I've been privy to in the Presbytery. .
. or in the General Assembly. No one said, "Hey, what about that Presbyterian in
there?"
While he does not speak openly about his nonbelief with mid-career
clergy, he has found some comfort in confiding in older or retired ministers who
share his views and do not hesitate to express them.
I've encountered a lot of other Presbyterian clergy, a number
of whom are retired, who are more able to articulate things similar to what I talked
about in my interviews with you. And they have no problem calling themselves Presbyterians,
and they don't feel it's a conflict of interest. That's been a real eye-opener for
me. It's made me feel much more comfortable about my profession, and I'm able to
understand that it is a flavor of Christianity that I fit into, even if it's
more of a philosophy-of-life kind of thing. The faith language may be allegorical,
but the values are good values.
He has applied for several secular jobs but has been turned
down or has declined offers that did not meet his salary requirements. If he ever
is able to leave ministry, he thinks he and his family will likely join a more open
religious community.
I think we might become Unitarians or we might join a Quaker congregation.
Those groups would provide that ritual and that community that helps to give meaning
and structure to life in ways we still value.
In the meantime, he has found some satisfaction in helping
parishioners who are questioning religion, by demonstrating how Bible stories and
Christian doctrine can have meaning without being literally true.
I talk about the Tower of Babel and the Genesis stories and the
Noah story as being fables, and I use that word in the pulpit. And we can talk about
the Resurrection as valuable doctrine if it's as a metaphorical thing, if it allows
us to understand ways that we can be resurrected in our own lives, or transform
our lives, or be good people.
When working on my Communion notes and script for Christmas
Eve, I was modifying the prayers—taking out things that didn't need to be said,
or changing language, taking out some of the Christology. I'm sure I still play
the game to some degree. I guess I'm couching, or I'm softening.
I can compromise and feel like I'm providing a middle ground
for the people who are out there who would feel the same way that I do. I think
I'm throwing them a lifeline.
He recognizes the difficulty of his situation and tries to
make the best of his investment in Christian ministry.
I've been doing it for a long time, years now, and it's something
that I'm able to do, that I was trained to do. What else was I trained to
do? How am I going to make use of all that money I spent on my education? And that's
one of the things that you and Dan Dennett have identified as an issue. I have years
of practice. It's a lifestyle that I'm familiar with. It's a language that I can
speak, even though I'm trying to alter it. And there have been pastors who have
found very welcoming churches that are very progressive and open, and there's not
enough of them to go around. But if I find one of those, I think I would be very,
very content.
He has definite ideas about how he would like religion to
change:
I'd like to see fundamentalist Christianity, or fundamentalist
religious faith, severely curtailed. I'd like to see a Unitarian flavor of faith.
I'd like there to be a voice for people like me out in the pews, or for people who
are avoiding the pews.
Jack, the Southern Baptist: Hanging on and Looking to Leave
Jack, a Baptist worship minister in the South, lost his faith
by reading the Bible over a period of ten years. As he recounted in the pilot study:
I've just this autumn started saying to myself, out loud, "I don't
believe in God anymore." It's not like, "I don't want to believe in God."
I don't believe in God. And it's because of all my pursuits of Christianity.
I want to understand Christianity, and that's what I've tried to do. And I've wanted
to be a Christian. I've tried to be a Christian, and all the ways they say to do
it. It just didn't add up.
I didn't plan to become an atheist. I didn't even want to become
an atheist. It's just that I had no choice. If I'm being honest with myself.
Jack, who has unsuccessfully sought work outside the ministry,
is still unhappy in his ministerial role and is beginning to resign himself to staying
for another few years until he can retire—if his church lets him stay.
I think I could take it for a few more years. I mean, I'm just
being blunt; that's what I told my wife. She kind of doesn't want me to do it,
because she knows I'm unhappy. And I said, "Where else will I find a job paying
this much that I could do so well?"
He senses that there are people who are pushing for him to
leave, but not because they have found out that he no longer believes. He thinks
it's related to money and church politics.
Some of them kind of resent that I make a good salary. It's like
"How come you pay him that much?"
The politics of church is like no other. People can make your
life miserable if they want you out. And they will. And they have.
At the time of the follow-up interview, he had still not told
his wife about his lack of belief.
I've talked about my unhappiness with my job many times, but I've
never told her I just don't believe in God anymore.
While his wife has been supportive in the difficulties he's
been having with his church, Jack frequents The Clergy Project's private Web site
for the peer support he feels he needs.
It's the only place I have to go to talk about this, so that's
been a wonderful resource for me. I go on it two or three times a day.
I just connect with someone in a similar position and get to
share my thoughts and my concerns and my frustrations and get a different sense
from people. That always helps. We're social creatures who need that reassurance
from other people, and that's the only place I get it now.
He's staying in his job as long as he can, for practical reasons.
I've worked myself through this personal crisis of faith, realizing
that I'm not that person anymore, but I have myself in this situation and I've just
got to be practical about how I'm dealing with it. It still frustrates me, but at
the same time, you know, I can't be foolish and just walk out the door.
He has found ways to speak to members of his congregation
without being openly dishonest.
You can always say, "The Bible says this and that," and that would
be true. I wouldn't say, "Well, I believe that the Bible is true." I could always
say, "Well, in the Bible, the story of Noah goes this way." And that's true, I don't
have to say I believe it.
I see politicians do it all the time. They have pre-set answers.
Somebody will ask them a question, and they'll answer with something that had nothing
to do with the question. That's the way I'm going to do it—because the truth is,
I can do my job and do what they're asking whether I believe it or not.
Jack feels he has had little choice about the ways his life
has changed since he accepted the reality of his unbelief.
This has been a very difficult thing for me to do. I've changed
my whole life, my whole belief system, and the way I work. It's not because I wanted
to, but because I felt I had no option. Because it's like, how can I keep telling
myself I believe this, when I don't?
Adam, the Church of Christ Minister: Secret Secular Activist
Since the pilot study was published, Adam has become an engaged
but clandestine activist in the atheist, freethought, and humanist community.
He is a cofounder of The Clergy Project, moderator of its private site for nonbelieving
clergy, and the first recipient of its outplacement services, provided by
a grant from the Stiefel Freethought Foundation. [2]
He has written and recorded humanist songs, which he cannot distribute publicly,
for fear that his voice would be recognized. Along with Jack, he appeared on a November
9, 2010, segment about nonbelieving pastors on ABC World News Tonight with
his voice and appearance disguised.[3]
He also has appeared twice, with his voice disguised, on Canadian Broadcasting Company
(CBC) Radio.[4]
Though a few of his Clergy Project colleagues know his real name, they call him
"Adam" to avoid any slips that may inadvertently out him.
As reported in the pilot study, Adam's religious beliefs changed
as the result of intense study, which he originally pursued to learn how to be a
better defender of Christianity. Instead, his investigation led him away from faith.
If God is God, he's big enough; he can handle any questions I've
got. Well, he didn't. He didn't measure up! And that sounds, you know, so funny,
because if I heard somebody else saying that a year ago, I'd have thought, "You
are such a sacrilegious person. God's going to strike you dead by lightning or something!"
I've actually thought and tried to pin-point, but I can honestly say that intellectually,
from within the first few weeks of my studies, I thought, "Wow! Could this be true?"
So almost from that point on, it's almost been downhill if you're Christian; uphill
if you're a nonbeliever. Coming to the truth— and I always thought there was absolute
truth out there. Now I'm a lot more relativistic.
Three years and many job applications later, he is still trying
to leave his position in the Church. He has considered many options, including academic
religion. He rejected that idea, because it did not seem like a clean break from
the deception he has found in religion.
It seems like there is some dishonesty with those academic people
I spoke with. They would admit that, "Yeah, we felt that we could not believe in
the literal Genesis. We also doubt the historicity of Moses and the Exodus and all
that." But they kind of liberalize it and say, "But either way, we believe that
God sent us the story." Yet they don't tell that to the churches that support their
seminaries; the churches are more literal.
I've decided that for the rest of my life I can't hide in my
environment. I just can't do that. So I was looking for secular work. What can I
do? I've applied for probably fifty to sixty to seventy jobs—positions in any kind
of field.
Although he has thought of "coming out" in dramatic fashion
as some other nonbelieving clergy have done[5],
he thinks that for him a better option would be "oozing out," by quietly taking
a secular job in his community. He is determined not to harm his family's lives
in pursuit of his own need to leave the ministry. His changed attitude continues
to be particularly hard on his wife, who remains a devoted Christian.
It's like trying to mix oil and water together. You can shake
it up as hard as you can, and sometimes you're kind of together. But the natural
tendency is polarization. because my view is so at odds, at least with literal,
fundamental, evangelical-type Christianity.
My wife's in a very tough situation, because she's been almost
as trapped as I have been, but for different reasons. She couldn't share with anybody
because of her fear that I'd lose my job.
I've told her that I've just got to get out of ministry, because
I don't believe. I cannot keep pretending for the rest of my life. And that's been
very point-blank. She knows that.
Approaching the subject with his children has been easier.
They are older now, and it seemed to Adam that they were more open to other ways
of thinking about religion.
A big change in the last year for me is that my older child knows.
It was shocking at first, but now [my older child] completely understands, and we
have a kind of a secret bond.
While Adam had not yet approached his younger child, who is
still at home, he thinks that when he does, the conversation will go well.
I think my younger one would love Julia Sweeney's DVD.[6]
I thought that when some questions come up, maybe I'd just say, "This is really
interesting. It made me think about a lot of stuff. Go watch it. Don't tell your
momma about it." That might start the conversation, I don't know. I don't want to
mess my kid's life up—it has such promise right now.
But I honestly think that when I do tell the younger one, a
lot of things will click, because there's already a little bit of a bad taste there
toward the Church, just because of the hours I'm putting in, with no benefits.
As eager as he is to get out, he knows it will be a big change.
I have over twenty years in full-time ministry. That's been my
life completely for twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week. And of course, all
my friends and acquaintances, social contacts, business contacts, are all around
that. So I'll be losing part of that—the congregation that I'm serving, wonderful
people.
He looks forward to the day, which he hopes will come soon,
when he can express himself freely.
I keep dreaming about being openly involved in this freethought
movement. It might involve music. It might involve speaking or making presentations
on behalf of a group or organization. It could mean running for something—I don't
know.
I'd be so much more comfortable sharing what I think is the
really good news about humanism and freethought. I'll be so much more a better advocate
for that than I ever was for God, because that is tangible. God was not.




[1]
Yonat Shimron, "Pastor Sticks up for Modern View of God," Raleigh News &
Observer, August 2, 2010.


[2]
The foundation gave a $100,000 grant to The Clergy Project to provide
outplacement services to formerly religious clergy. The program provides each
individual with six months of assistance, including skills-assessment, résumé
preparation, and connection with a local recruiter to help in the search for sustainable
employment. 


[3]
http://www.clergyproject.org/news/2010/11/09/abc-world-news-with-diane-sawyer---atheist-ministers-struggle-with-leading-the-faithful/



[4]
http://www.clergyproject.org/news/2011/01/27/cbc-canadian-broadcasting-corporation-radio-interview---preachers-who-dont-believe-in-god/
and http://www.clergyproject.org/news/2013/04/28/CBC-radio-two-year-followup-interview-with-adam/


[5]
http://www.npr.org/2012/04/30/151681248/from-minister-to-atheist-a-story-of-losing-faith
, Teresa MacBain, interviewed by Barbara Bradley Hagerty, National Public
Radio, April 30, 2012.
http://upwithchrishayes.msnbc.com/_news/2012/03/25/10855474-pastor-comes-out-as-a-non-believer?lite
, Mike Aus, interviewed by Chris Hayes, MSNBC, March 25, 2012.
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/26/magazine/from-bible-belt-pastor-to-atheist-leader.html?pagewanted=all&_r=0 Jerry DeWitt, interviewed by Robert Worth, New
York Times Magazine, August 26, 2012.


[6]
"Letting go of God" http://juliasweeney.com/letting-go-of-god/










VII. The Inner Shell—Isolating Pastors from Their Parishioners and from Themselves
Daniel C. Dennett
But it's sort of a pet issue of mine that clergy have very,
very few places where they can be honest with anyone.
—Jim, an Episcopal priest
More interesting, in many ways, than the membrane protecting
the church from the outside environment are the policies and practices composing
the additional membranes that typically function to protect the clergy, insulating
them from subversive forces and temptations inside the church while maintaining
the inner balance that seems to be necessary for proper functioning. Once again,
these are designed policies without a designer. For the most part, they are the
product of long ages of trial-and-error from which have emerged traditions—"best
practices," in effect—that have stood the test of time. Although they have served
their functions well in the past, some of them are beginning to do more harm than
good. Most of them have familiar counterparts in other contexts.
One is well-known by the name Bill Clinton gave it in another
application: Don't ask, don't tell. There is a long-standing and unspoken
taboo in many churches to the effect that inquiring pointedly about the religious
beliefs of any church member—or, indeed, of any pastor or other leader in
the church—is not just bad form but altogether too aggressive and rude. This is
a godsend (if I may put it thus) to many of our nonbelieving clergy participants,
since they don't have to worry overmuch about being put on the spot and forced to
lie or confess. Except in private confessional conversations, and even then it is
rare, this is just not done, one gathers—even in the case of interviews by a church
search committee for a new pastor.
This policy is part of a larger pattern that our pastors often
comment on, the clerical versions of Go along to get along and Don't rock
the boat. The need to "fit in" looms large in church settings. Confrontation
is of course frowned upon, and the manners and habits installed in pastors as part
of their training in pastoral care tend to carry over into all their interactions.
The tenure of a pastor is almost always somewhat precarious in any case, and you
never can tell whose feathers you dare not ruffle, at least early in your appointment,
before you get to know the lay of the land. This discourages bold experiments, so
even though some pastors occasionally dream of trying some risky venture
in hopes of opening the minds of their congregations, few can bring themselves to
carry out such an undertaking. It would be too likely to violate the tradition that
is the clerical variation on the physician's maxim First, do no harm: First,
do not undermine anybody's faith. Pastors are thus encouraged to spin different
messages to different congregations, or parts of congregations. As Marcus Borg candidly
put it in commenting on our pilot study in the Washington Post "On Faith" Forum:
If their congregation is mostly elderly and unlikely to survive
beyond the death of its members, and if their elderly flock is not using "common
Christianity" to judge and beat up on other people, then there may be no need
to try to change them. Clergy in situations like this might see themselves as chaplains
in an old folks home.
But if clergy are in intergenerational churches with a potential
future, then I encourage a different approach. Seek to bring your understanding
of Christianity into your congregation. This can be done in sermons, but especially
in adult theological re-education.[1]
Can it really be done in sermons? Most of our pastors find
this too risky. They have to fall back on "adult theological re-education." What
can't be said from the pulpit—since it would upset the old guard, who cling to the
literalist understanding of their youth—can be discussed in a book-discussion group
or an informal study group focused on some issue. The book chosen, or the topic
announced, can telegraph an approach of open-minded, free-wheeling discussion in
which possibly heretical views can be broached in a spirit of inquiry, not inquisition.
Our pastors are familiar with this move and some of them use it to good effect,
but it has its risks. The pastor can hide behind the book's author ("Well,
Bart Ehrman/Rob Bell/Marcus Borg/Bishop Spong certainly has some challenging ideas!
What do you folks think of them?"), remaining neutral while introducing the ideas
to those in the congregation who might be ready—indeed, yearning—for them. A daring
pastor might even start a group that read through the New Atheist books, in the
spirit of "know thy enemy." But once this tactic becomes an open secret, it will
no longer be taken at face value by those in the congregation it is meant to bypass.
The fact that the pastor wants members of the congregation to read these dangerous
books will be taken as a telltale sign of a lapse in faith.
This illustrates a big problem facing the clergy today: the distressing
way that diplomacy tends to erode into hypocrisy. We are all familiar with the delicate
question of where on the sliding scale called-for diplomacy leaves off and becomes
uncalled-for lying. When do white lies turn evil? When does politeness morph into
manipulation? When is silence golden, and when is it culpable reticence? We tell
fibs and withhold truths to protect people at risk of suffering from a surfeit of
troubling facts, and then also to protect our own ability to do that very thing,
and then also to protect our reputations as candid and sincere truth-tellers, and
so we become accomplished liars. Nobody is unfamiliar with this slippery slope,
which can complicate our relations with friends and family, but pastors never got
off it. They are always onstage, always confronted with the problem of self-presentation.
Just as a rhyme scheme imposes constraints on a poet and may
thus be a spur to creativity, this predicament forces pastors to find ingenious
ways of speaking. Consider section 14, on the subtly evasive language
resorted to by liberal pastors. They are adept at talking to two (or more)
audiences at once, speaking in literal language about "what God wants," "when God
listens to your prayers," and the "Risen Christ" and other miracles (calling
them miracles, to reassure the old-timers), while leaving plenty of room for
the sophisticated members of the congregation to interpret everything they say as
metaphor and poetry, not literal truth. (Hey, if sports broadcasters can speak with
impunity of "miracle catches" and "miraculous" comebacks, pastors can just as insouciantly
speak of the biblical miracles without thereby suggesting that they believe in miracles
when in their hearts they don't.)
This talent for articulating double meanings from the pulpit
might be compared to the talent of the best children's-book authors, who provide
an extra layer of meaning for the delectation of parents engaged in reading bedtime
stories to their youngsters. Paternalism is, of course, in order when dealing
with one's children—that's precisely when paternalism is called for, after all—but
some of our pastors were uneasy about the paternalism they were indulging in with
segments of their adult congregation. At the very least, they felt obliged to adopt
this double-speak without ever mentioning it. No church will thrive if it
mounts a neon sign over the pulpit reading, "Understand all this as metaphor if
you don't want to understand it as literal."
Another useful tradition is epistemological modesty: "Think twice
before you challenge what the elders say. What do you know?" A nice feature of this
ambient attitude is that it can be iterated in a pinch. Pastors can hold off skeptical
challenges by subtly impugning the comprehension, the experience, the sophistication
of a lay challenger—or, if that doesn't do the trick, confessing their own abject
incomprehension in the face of Mystery. Not "Who are you to question these
sacred and difficult truths?" but "Who are we to question these sacred and
difficult truths?"
One of the troublesome aspects of the books by the Four Horsemen
of the New Atheism (Dawkins, Harris, Hitchens, and me) is that none of us bother
to wrestle with the intricate arguments and analyses of theologians, and none of
us back off. We don't accept the modest role that self-styled religious sophisticates
try to impose on us. This "arrogance" of the New Atheists is often criticized, but,
as I never tire of responding, we, like scientists and philosophers generally, are
forever asking ourselves, "But what if I'm wrong?"—a reflection that is not just
rare but positively discouraged among religious spokespeople. There are some famously
arrogant Nobel laureates in the scientific community, but I have never encountered
one who can hold a candle to the overweening confidence and smug certainty
of the typical defender of the faith, whose disdain for evidence-seeking and careful
argumentation is often breathtaking. Those who view it as immoral to entertain alternatives
or even objections to their faith place themselves outside the marketplace of ideas.
They are incompetent to participate in the serious political conversations we ought
to be engaging in today.
I have been asking defenders of sophisticated theology for a
reading list of works they are prepared to defend as intellectually bracing and
honest, but I have yet to have my challenge met. I am tempted to conclude
that they have realized, on closer examination, that they, too, have adopted a double
standard, letting pass as deep thought work that is actually just obscure—and often
apparently deliberately obscure. Such works serve only to buttress the adopters
of epistemological modesty, who can reason as follows: "These professors are professional
thinkers about religion. They are still in the church, so they must have gone way
beyond me in thinking these issues through. I don't get it, but they do, so I should
accept their authority." These high-flown ruminations may well be incomprehensible,
but they are nevertheless deemed inspiring and authoritative. "Go read the meticulous
arguments of this thinker; they should sweep away your doubts." (And if they don't,
it must be your fault.)
A natural accompaniment to epistemological modesty is the habit
of turning away from too much reflection. This is not easy for clergy, since their
professional lives are inundated with the very contents that they don't want to
dwell on too intently. But somehow they manage to stay oblivious of many issues.
One of the surprising patterns in Linda's interviews was how often she posed issues
that struck the interviewees as novel. Again and again she was told, "I've never
thought of that before." Andy, the Southern Baptist turned UCC pastor, says to her
at one point,
I've learned a lot about myself just by sitting here. No one's
ever asked me these questions, and I love this. It's very clarifying, very clarifying.
And see what happens when Linda closes out her first interview
with Glen, the Catholic priest on leave-of absence:
Linda: If you think about our conversation tonight and
think you left something out or want to expand on something, be sure to bring that
in tomorrow.
Glen: OK. I'm sure I will, because a lot of this I've never
thought about before. It's interesting that . . . for the first time there is a
kind of depth. because to me . . . . the struggles that I had that. . . I
just wanted to scream to that self, ten years ago in seminary, and say "Don't you
understand? You can't— Why are you not facing these doubts? Why are you not challenging
your professor?"
Linda: Do you have an answer for that?
Glen: I will. Not yet.
Linda: OK, I have an answer. It might not be the right
answer, but I have an answer. Because you wanted that structure, you wanted to complete
the degree so you could be that person that you had in your mind that you wanted
to be.
Glen: Maybe you're right. There was such a fear in seminary,
by all of us, of being dismissed or being one of the ones who chose to leave, because
we didn't want to be one of them.
Poignantly, opening up a novel perspective did not always
make our participants' problems seem worse; as often as not, it eased their minds
in one way or another, clarifying their predicament or pointing to a saving grace
that hadn't occurred to them. Might they have benefited personally from rather more
reflection? It's hard to say. It is reflection, typically, that plants the seeds
of doubt. They hear themselves saying something to a parishioner that doesn't pass
muster with their conscience, or they discover that they no longer enjoy some aspect
of their duties—or, even more upsetting, they discover that they enjoy some
aspect of their duties too much and for the wrong reasons (it's the limelight, or
the ceremony, the stagecraft. that they relish, not the message they're
expressing). Glen notes that he reads while he's supposed to be contemplating the
Blessed Sacrament, in the practice known as Eucharistic adoration: "Would I be reading
a book, trying to kill time, if I were in the presence of God?"
Jerry DeWitt, the Pentecostal preacher, also questioned his own
sincerity.
From the beginning, I've been conflicted. I've always had these
aching doubts about the supernatural side of things. I would push the doubts aside,
and try to get as involved in it as I could. I would speak in tongues, but I always,
always knew that it wasn't what everybody was making it out to be. Because I was
the guy doing it.
I'll give you a good for-instance: I would be in a service where
I would give a message in tongues and interpretation of encouragement to someone.
And the whole time that I'm speaking, "Thus sayeth the Lord: Fear not, I'll walk
with thee, blah, blah, blah," there's this other part in my head that just knew
it was coming out of me, not from the Lord. I fasted, I prayed, I sought in every
way that I knew to try to get so immersed in the spirit that there was no longer
that other voice in my head.
We realize that any clergy reading this book may well
become, as a result, more self-conscious about any self-deceptions they have
mastered to get them through the difficult parts of their days. And that, once again,
is the problem all religions face today: They cannot easily withstand the attention
the world is beginning to focus on them, now that the spell is broken, and there
is no defensible, respectable way of putting that genie back in the bottle.
Some commentators have urged that the best response to the new
transparency would be to switch away from dogma and endorsement of a set of dubious
propositions and toward commitment to a tradition more like loyalty to one's
community. One of the most thoughtful of these is the British philosopher Philip
Kitcher. In an essay titled "Militant Modern Atheism," he argues for preserving
religion's proven role in providing meaningful lives for many whose circumstances
prevent them from being, in Kitcher's good phrase, "important participants" in the
world they were born into.[2]
He sees no future for any religion based on what he calls the belief model ,
and he recommends instead what he calls the orientation model. This, he claims,
would likely reverse the otherwise standard dependence on religious commitments
and aspirations on grounded beliefs. That is, the orientation-type religionists
put commitments to community and tradition first, as the fundamental landmarks of
their lives, and let the expression of the (dubious) grounds for these commitments
wander somewhat opportunistically between "mythically self-conscious" metaphor at
one pole and "doctrinal entanglement" (flirting with the belief model) at the other,
with convenient vagueness ("doctrinal indefiniteness") in the middle. (The "doctrinally
indefinite" folks "take refuge in language that is resonant and opaque, metaphorical
and poetic, and deny that they can do any better at explaining the beliefs they
profess.") Whatever floats your boat, as one says. And indeed, if maintaining a
religious orientation is the only way for you to have a meaningful life, you should
rely on whatever floats your boat. But then it will just make matters harder for
you if you have to confront Kitcher's trio. "Tell me, sir, have you decided to go
with mythic self-consciousness, doctrinal entanglement, or doctrinal indefiniteness?"
Don't ask! Don't tell!
Kitcher is at pains to express his defense of these delicate
options sympathetically:
I'll suggest that doctrinal indefiniteness can be a reasonable
expression of epistemic modesty, and that even doctrinal entanglement can be justified
when it is the only way of preserving, in the sociocultural environment available,
a reflectively stable orientation.
But a somewhat less diplomatic version hovers in the background:
Kid yourself if you have to. I am happy to say that Kitcher firmly draws the line
at letting any of these options abrogate a commitment to reason when deciding
ethical matters.
Someone who makes decisions affecting the lives of others is ethically
required to rely on those propositions best supported by the evidence.
In a felicitous phrase, he notes that "there ought to be no
'teleological suspension of the ethical'," but then his attempt to make the harrowing
story of Abraham and his son safe for posterity runs afoul of his own requirement.
Just what is the positive role of Abraham as a "knight of faith" supposed
to be, when he so clearly violates this principle? Kitcher says that Abraham's "sort
of trust is not legitimate"—you can't put it much plainer than that—but how, then,
does Kitcher find a way of endorsing Abraham's (mythical) story as any sort of talisman
for a meaningful life?
As Kitcher's well-intentioned, imaginative attempt to avoid hypocrisy
shows all too vividly, there is no stable stopping point on the slippery slope between
being patronizing, on the one hand, and uneasy complicity with unacceptable nonsense
on the other.
Are these reflections on religion offensive? They concern topics
that many people would rather leave unexamined, but unlike most earlier criticisms
of religion they do not point a finger of blame. It doesn't take conniving priests
to invent these cultural contraptions, any more than it took a devious social engineer
to create the Japanese tea ceremony or debutante cotillions, no matter how resentful
and trapped some of the participants in those superannuated traditions may feel.
Just as there is no Intelligent Designer to be the proper recipient of our gratitude
for the magnificent biosphere we live in, there need be no intelligent designers
to be the proper targets of our anger when we find ourselves victimized by "social
cells,"[3]
like the church. There are, to be sure, plenty of greedy and deceitful people who
tend to rise to power in any of these organizations, but if we concentrate on hunting
the villains down, we misdirect our energies. The structures themselves can arise
innocently, out of good intentions, and gradually evolve into social mechanisms
that perpetuate themselves quite independently of the intentions and values of their
constituent parts, the agents who bustle about inside them executing the tasks that
keep the institution going. Some of those agents, the clergy who must confront the
deluge of information and attendant curiosity on a daily basis, are showing signs
of strain, suggesting that the task facing religions everywhere is only going to
become more difficult.




[1]
http://newsweek.washingtonpost.com/onfaith/panelists/marcus_borg/2010/03/when_pastors_move_beyond_belief.html


[2]
J. Appl. Philos., 28:1, 1-13 (2011)


[3]
Dennett, "The Social Cell," New Statesman, April 13, 2012










Appendix A. The Participants
1. Sample Characteristics
Thirty-five people participated in this and our 2010 pilot
study. In age, they ranged from twenty-four to seventy-six, with all but seven between
thirty and sixty. All were Caucasian. Twenty-six were married, including three to
same-sex partners (the ages and marital status of the three seminary professors
interviewed were not recorded).
A total of ninety interviews were conducted, from November 2008
to June 2012, and discussion of the study participants in this book represents their
experiences as they related them in that time period; it does not include any information
we may have learned about them since.
Herewith a list of our clergy and seminary graduate informants:
The Mainline Protestants:
Andy, a United Church of Christ pastor in his fifties,
who plans to remain a pastor until his retirement;
Bill, an Episcopal pastor in his fifties, who plans
to remain a pastor until his retirement;
Brian, a former Lutheran seminary student, now in his
thirties, who left on the first day of seminary;
Caitlin, an Episcopalian pastor in her sixties, about
to retire;
Carl, a Lutheran pastor in his fifties, who plans to
remain a pastor until his retirement;
Charles, an Episcopal hospital chaplain in his thirties,
who is a believer;
Harry, a former Lutheran and nondenominational pastor
in his forties, who left the ministry shortly after being interviewed and started
a humanist community;
Jared, a humanist, formerly UCC, recent divinity school
graduate, who plans to lead humanist communities;
Jim, an Episcopal pastor in his fifties who is a believer;
Tammie, a Methodist pastor in her forties who left
the ministry shortly after being interviewed;
Winnie, a former Presbyterian pastor in her fifties
who pursued a doctorate in another field.
The Mormons:
Joe, a Mormon bishop in his forties, halfway through
his five-year commitment, who does not intend to accept other Church positions when
his commitment ends;
Walt, a former Mormon bishop in his forties, who left
his bishopric and the Mormon Church.
The Fundamentalists:
Dave, a Baptist missionary in Asia in his forties,
who returned to the United States, left the ministry shortly after being
interviewed; he now works in an unrelated field.
Hugh, a former Seventh-day Adventist religion student
who is now planning a secular career;
Jeb, a former Baptist pastor who left ministry years
ago to become a clinical psychologist;
Johnny [Jerry DeWitt], a Pentecostal pastor in his
forties who left the ministry shortly after being interviewed and is now a secular
activist;
Michael, a Seventh-day Adventist in his fifties on
a leave of absence and planning to leave the ministry;
Pete, a student who left Pentecostal pastoral training
in his early twenties and is now a college student in an unrelated field;
Stan, a Disciples of Christ military chaplain who left
the military and the ministry to enter graduate school to train for another career.
The Roman Catholics:
Candice, a seminary graduate in her thirties who did
not pursue a career in religion; she is now a secular activist.
Glen, a parish priest in his forties on a leave of
absence, with no plans to return;
Tony, a former parish priest in his forties who left
the priesthood five years ago;
Vince, a former teaching monk in his seventies who
left his order a few years after Vatican II.
An Orthodox:
George, a former Greek Orthodox monk in his thirties.
The Jews:
Sherm: an Orthodox rabbi in his thirties who plans
to remain in the rabbinate until his retirement;
Jacob, a humanist (formerly Conservative; then Reform)
rabbi in his thirties who plans to remain in the rabbinate until his retirement.
The 2010 pilot study participants:
Wes, a Methodist pastor in his forties, who intends
to remain in the clergy;
Rick [Mark Rutledge], a United Church of Christ
campus chaplain in his seventies, now semi-retired;
Darryl, a Presbyterian pastor in his thirties, who
remains in the clergy;
Adam, a Church of Christ worship minister in his forties
who remains in the clergy but is a clandestine secular activist;
Jack, a Southern Baptist worship minister in his fifties,
looking to leave.
2. Detailed, Aggregate Information
90 total interviews, including:
- 30 new respondents (one to three interviews, 60 or 90 minutes each)
- 5 pilot-study respondents (three interviews each, 60 or 90 minutes
each)
- 4 follow-up phone interviews with respondents from the pilot study
(60 minutes each)
- 4 follow-up phone interviews with "active/former" respondents in the
Phase Two study who "came out" during the course of the study, after first being
interviewed as clergy (60 minutes each)
Demographics
Career Status of all 35 respondents (clergy, students
and seminary professors:
27 clergy, active or former, or active/former, i.e., left the
clergy during the course of the study
20 active clergy
- 11 active throughout the course of the study
- 5 "active/former" who left the clergy a few months after being interviewed
- only one planned in advance
- 2 on sabbatical/leave of absence
- 2 "others" - practicing clergy who do not identify as non-believing
7 former clergy
5 students (2 graduates, 1 current, 1 former, one who left seminary
on the first day)
3 seminary professors of Old or New Testament Studies
Religion/denomination of the 32 clergy or students (27 current
or former clergy and 5 students)
22 Protestants
- 4 Episcopalians - three active (including two "others" i.e., believers),
one former
- 1 Disciple of Christ, active/former (he planned to leave before the
interviews began)
- 2 Presbyterians, one current, one former
- 3 Lutherans, 1 active/former, 1 active, 1 seminary student for one
day
- 2 United Church of Christ (UCC), one active, one retired
- 2 Methodists, one active, one active/former
- 3 Baptists - 1 missionary, active/former, 2 pastors, one current and
one former
- 2 Assemblies of God - 1 active/former, 1 former student and youth
pastor
- 1 Church of Christ - active
- 2 Adventists - 1 on leave of absence, 1 student
4 Roman Catholics - 1 on leave of absence, 2 former (1 priest,
1 monk), 1 seminary graduate
1 Greek Orthodox - former, just left
2 Jews - 1 active Humanist rabbi (formerly Conservative) and
1 Orthodox rabbi
2 Mormons - 1 former and 1 active bishop
1 Humanist - recent seminary graduate
Gender: 28 men, 4 women
Race: 32 Caucasians
Marital Status: 26 married (1 separated later) - 3 to
same-sex partners, 5 single, 1 divorced.
Of the 26 married respondents, 23 had spouses who were supportive,
irrespective of their own beliefs. 2 had spouses who were not aware of the change
in beliefs
Children: 15 with children, 12 without (7 married, 5 single)
Education: 6 doctoral (4 PhD, 2 DMin) 16 Masters (9 MDiv,
6 other), 3 Bachelors (including 1 Masters student) 3 less than Bachelors (1 Bachelors
student, 1Bible college grad, 1 technical school grad)




Ages: from 20's to 70's
3 - 20s
7 - 30s
10 - 40s
8 - 50s
2 - 60s
2 - 70s


 Locations: 22 urban, 10 rural
6 - NE
9 - South
6 - MW
2 - SW
5 - West
4 - Outside of US (2 Canada, 1 near east, 1 far east)



Liberal (e.g., Mainline Protestant, Roman Catholic) vs.
Literal (Fundamentalist, Orthodox):
11 literal, 21 liberal (including 2 "others") 7 of whom who started
out literal, more specifically:
- 19 original literals: 8 who switched to a liberal denomination
before becoming non-believing, 8 who are still active clergy and 3 who are inactive
- on leave of absence or on military reserve status. 5 left the clergy as literals.
- 13 original liberals: 5 are still clergy, including 2 UCC,
1 Presbyterian, 2 humanists, 1 Lutheran and 1 "other"/believing Episcopalian.
Clergy Project Connection:
Of the 32 clergy/student study participants, 24 are Clergy Project
members:
- 15 first learned about it as a result of volunteering to be interviewed
in the study.
- 8 learned about the study after becoming a member of the project.
- 1 learned about the study and the project simultaneously, while searching
"atheist clergy" on the internet.
Of the 8 study participants who are not Clergy Project members:
- 2 are "others" - believing clergy, so not appropriate for membership.
- 3 are students who did not complete their studies and thus did not
qualify.
- 1 did not have internet access.
- 2 declined membership.









Appendix B: About Qualitative Research -From the Qualitative Research Consultants
Association [1]
Qualitative research is designed to reveal a target audience's
range of behavior and the perceptions that drive it with reference to specific topics
or issues. It uses in-depth studies of small groups of people to guide and support
the construction of hypotheses. The results of qualitative research are descriptive
rather than predictive.
Qualitative research methods originated in the social and behavioral
sciences: sociology, anthropology and psychology. Today, qualitative methods in
the field of marketing research include in-depth interviews with individuals, group
discussions (from two to ten participants is typical); diary and journal exercises;
and in-context observations. Sessions may be conducted in person, by telephone,
via videoconferencing and via the Internet.
Several unique aspects of qualitative research contribute to rich, insightful
results:
• Synergy among [group] respondents, as they build on each other's comments
and ideas.
• The dynamic nature of the interview or group discussion process, which
engages respondents more actively than is possible in more structured survey.
• The opportunity to probe ("Help me understand why you feel that
way") enabling the researcher to reach beyond initial responses and rationales.
• The opportunity to observe, record and interpret non-verbal communication
(i.e., body language, voice intonation) as part of a respondent's feedback, which
is valuable during interviews or discussions, and during analysis.
• The opportunity to engage respondents in "play" such as
projective techniques and exercises, overcoming the self-consciousness that can
inhibit spontaneous reactions and comments
What are the statistical limitations of qualitative research?[2]
The results of qualitative research cannot be statistically
projected across a target population. That's because the methods used to recruit
participants and explore issues in qualitative research tend to be quite different,
by design, from the methods that a projectable quantitative study might involve.
However, when decisions must be made that require quantification, qualitative research
is often used in advance to help plan effective quantitative studies, or as a follow-up
method to help interpret quantitative results or explore selected topics in greater
depth.




[1]
http://www.qrca.org/displaycommon.cfm?an=1&subarticlenbr=6


[2]
http://www.qrca.org/displaycommon.cfm?an=1&subarticlenbr=31#5










Appendix C:
1. Linda's Personal Story
Before conducting this study of nonbelieving clergy, my only
intense interest in religion coincided with a brief period in early adolescence
when I wanted to become a nun. It was not unusual for Catholic girls to go through
a phase like this. Boys seemed icky and convent life seemed romantic—a way to be
respected and set apart from ordinary mortals. In my case, that phase ended quickly,
supplanted by a growing interest in boys who had somehow shed their ickyness.
Aside from that episode, religion played a central but minor
role while I was growing up in New Castle, Pennsylvania, a small industrial town
near Pittsburgh. My family's Catholic faith was always present but was neither a
burden nor a special joy. I went to church every Sunday, ate fish on Friday, went
to confession once a month, made my first Holy Communion at age seven and was confirmed
at thirteen. Looking back on it, I'd say we were liberal, cultural Christians, though
that's not how my family would have described ourselves. We were Italian Catholics,
with the emphasis on "Italian." Christmas and Easter meant family gatherings with
a focus on food, music, a good poker game, and not a word about religion that I
can remember.
As a teenager, after my sister and brother were grown and gone,
Sunday mornings at church were a chance to be alone with Dad and to learn Latin.
I compared the Latin on one side of the Sunday Missal with the English translation
on the other, while trying to ignore the dreadful sermon in which the parishioners
were regularly scolded for not putting enough money in the collection basket.
After church, we went to Nonna's for percolated coffee and sweet
rolls. Nonna never mentioned anything about church, and I never thought to ask whether
she had gone herself. I certainly never saw her there. As for my mother, she didn't
attend church except on special occasions. She had a terrible case of claustrophobia
that prevented her from doing anything she didn't want to do. I credit Mom with
keeping me out of the Catholic schools that were springing up in the fifties. She
greatly resented the attempted intrusion of the church into our lives; I just wanted
to stay with my friends in public school. Now I'm thankful for having been spared
the indoctrination I heard about later from Catholic friends who attended parochial
school.
As an adult, without children and married to an agnostic, I
drifted away from church. I believed in God but didn't pray and didn't ponder religion
very much. In retrospect, I think of myself during that period as a "lazy believer."
If I were to have been asked to state my religion on a survey, I would have
responded "Roman Catholic," because that was my cultural identity. But I was really
a "None."
Eventually, my husband, Art, was drawn to the Unitarian Universalist
Church, wanting a sense of community. I attended with him a couple of times and
found the people lovely and the services completely inoffensive. I certainly didn't
miss the authoritarianism of the Catholic Church, but I did miss the "smells and
bells", and I couldn't imagine trading my leisurely reading of the Sunday paper
for the vague spirituality of the Unitarians.
We looked around for a place we could both enjoy, finally landing
in the Episcopal Church. It was like a liturgical throwback to my childhood, complete
with incense and some chanting in Latin, but with no need to adhere to doctrine.
Art was openly welcomed as an agnostic and even invited to sing his original "agnostic"
song from the pulpit. (Its final lines: "A few simple answers would make life so
concrete, / If I could phone up God on Sunday, would my search be complete?")
Everything was fine, until I started studying religious history
a few years ago. Although I love to delve into subjects until they are explained
to my satisfaction, I had never studied religion in a serious way; I simply hadn't
cared enough to take it on. But after a trip to Italy in 2005, where I saw Christian
history unfold in the many brilliant works of Christian art and architecture, my
interest was piqued and my studies began.
I was fascinated. There was so much more here than what I'd learned
in church or catechism classes. The Bible is long on myth and metaphor and
short on facts and history. Organized religion, like any other power structure,
is an exclusively human enterprise. Religious leaders can claim divine inspiration
and guidance, but scholars know that no supernatural assistance is needed to compile
a book of ancient stories or build a system of belief.
I was angry. Why hadn't I figured this out sooner? The information
was at my fingertips: in the public library, at the bookstore, on the Internet.
But I hadn't bothered to think about it, and in our society faith is the default
position. Also, I suppose I had been ignoring or discounting information that didn't
fit into my inchoate but comfortable belief system. I remember my response
when my then fiancé learned about Transubstantiation (the literal turning of
bread and wine into the body and blood of Christ) and was astounded that I believed
in something I knew was biologically impossible. "It's a miracle," I blithely declared.
I had never bothered to analyze Transubstantiation, because it had no impact
on my daily life. The Virgin Birth and the Resurrection were ancient events. I hadn't
received Communion in the Catholic Church in over a decade by then, and I had no
intention of ever doing so again. Nonetheless, I had continued to accept the miracles
and myths I learned about in childhood and never thought or cared about since.
I was confused as well, and it was the desire to sort out my
confusion that ultimately led to this study. One of the fascinating facts I learned
during my personal religious research was that seminary students are taught the
same religious and biblical history I had learned on my own. Of his seminary studies,
Marcus Borg has written: "The news that 'the Jesus of history' (as I learned to
call him) was very different from the Jesus I had heard about growing up in the
church seemed important to me. It also seemed vaguely scandalous, and something
I shouldn't tell my mother about. But I was hooked."[1]
He was hooked? My reaction was to wonder how seminary students
could continue their studies after learning that what they were expected to preach
was different from what they were discovering in school. This disconnect clearly
required further study. I'd had a long career conducting qualitative research for
government agencies and nonprofit groups, and now I wanted to research this.
What I didn't realize at the time was that it was easy for someone
like me—removed from religion and indifferent to it—to respond logically to what
I was learning about religion. All I had to lose was a vague hope for an afterlife
that, frankly, I could never quite imagine. For clergy, such introspection was much
more difficult and complex. They had felt a calling; they had made
a commitment. They had the mindset of faith, dedication to a cause, and the expectation
of a lifelong vocation. I would learn that all this had a huge effect on how they
processed information.
My intense curiosity prompted me to contact Dan Dennett. I had
read his Breaking the Spell, in which he calls for treating religion
as a subject for scientific study. I had also just read an essay he wrote on Mother
Teresa's extended "dark night of the soul," in which she did not feel Christ's presence
but continued to follow his directive to serve the poor and dying. In that essay,
"The Agony of Misplaced Ecstasy," [2]
he conjectured that many other clergy experienced persistent disbelief.
We soon decided to collaborate on exploratory qualitative research
to investigate pastors' "cognitive dissonance"—how they squared what they had learned
with what they were preaching. As we eventually found out, there was much more to
it than that.
2. Dan's Personal Story
Some of my earliest childhood memories are of listening to
the muezzin sing the prayers from the minaret that rose within a hundred yards of
our house in Beirut. Some of my early playmates were Muslims or Druze, but I doubt
if I knew what a Christian was until I started going to Sunday school at the First
Congregational Church in Winchester, Massachusetts, at age six or so, in
the late 1940s. I had been raised on the wonderful folk tales about the 13th-century
Sufi sage Nasr din Hodja, and I found Bible stories to be almost equally
engrossing, although seldom as amusing.
In Winchester, churchgoing was a social thing. As I recall, just
about all children went to one Sunday school or another: Catholic, Baptist, Methodist,
Unitarian, Episcopalian, Christian Scientist. (No Jews lived in Winchester. I was
in high school before I learned that there was a secret agreement among the realtors
in town to keep Jews out, a shameful legacy that was dismantled in the 1960s.) My
sisters and I attended Sunday school and its teenage continuation in "Fellowship,"
and I learned the rituals and hymns, which I also sang at summer camp, a nondenominational
camp for boys with a beautiful open-air chapel in the woods. I loved the weekly
(Christian) services at camp, which were long on music and short on Scripture, with
no chaplain. When puberty arrived, Fellowship became much more important to me,
because all the best dances for teens were at the "Congo"—though there was something
to be said for the somewhat less chaperoned sock hops at the CYO, the Catholic Youth
Organization. The word on the street was that Catholic girls were easier, because
they went to confession.
I did have a brief, intense intellectual adventure with Christian
Science. There was a large contingent of CS boys and counselors at my summer camp,
and though they were discreet about their meetings and didn't do any proselytizing,
I became intrigued and participated in their sessions, reading Mary Baker Eddy's
Science and Health with Key to the Scriptures and sitting in on two nightlong
prayer vigils to cure, without medicine, a badly sprained knee and a shockingly
inflamed and swollen ingrown big toenail. (The toenail was markedly better by morning,
a fact that has impressed me ever since.) My mother worried that I would join the
Christian Scientists, but she needn't have; I was already too much of a skeptic
to go in for that. She herself never went to church, unless it was to the Unitarian
church, whose minister she adored. My grandfather, for more than half a century
one of Winchester's doctors, never went to church, but my grandmother was a loyal
attendee and contributor to the Congregational coffers, though I never heard her
mention religion outside of church or say grace. Shakespeare Club was the target
of her devotions.
I discovered atheism at about age fourteen or fifteen and knew
immediately, and with no emotional turmoil, that I was an atheist, but I have maintained
diplomatic relations with churches, singing in choirs, attending Easter and Christmas
services and (of course) weddings and funerals. I even gave a guest student sermon
at the Congregational Church in Middletown, Connecticut, where I was a freshman
at Wesleyan University in 1959. My theme was to reflect on, and applaud, the fact
that, as a little research had just shown me, the Congregational Church does not
have a creed; individual churches may develop one if they see fit. Most don't, I
gather. My kind of church. But I don't belong to any—unless it counts that I was
"confirmed" at the Winchester church when I was a young teenager and have never
gone to the trouble of renouncing or rescinding that.
Fortunately for us both, my wife, Susan, had an almost identical
religious upbringing in Wellesley, another Boston suburb, so we knew all the same
Scripture, rituals, and hymns and felt equally comfortable attending—or not attending—church.
We love the music, and so, it turns out, do many of our friends. I have sung (many
times, in most cases) all the great choral music of Christianity, and for over thirty
years we have hosted an annual Christmas Carol sing and potluck. I curated a songbook
of all the best versions of all the best carols, gleaned from choirs, glee clubs,
and chorales I have sung in—from "Lo, How a Rose E'er Blooming" to "Sweet
Was the Virgin's Song" to "Masters in This Hall." No "Frostie the Snowman" or "Chestnuts
roasting on an open fire" for us, and yet of the three dozen or so loyal attendees
I am not sure if any regularly attend church.
That tolerant neglect typified my attitudes toward religion in
general, not just Congregationalism—until the early 21st century, when the theocratic
stirrings of the religious right alarmed me enough to decide to do something about
it. I had been appalled for years by the deliberate spreading of falsehood by churches
opposed to evolution or to birth control, and by the breathtaking dishonesty of
televangelists of various stripes, but I was content to support the efforts of others
to redress the balance. I don't think I had bothered mentioning that I was an atheist
to anyone for decades, until Richard Dawkins drew my attention to the attempt by
Paul Geisert and Mynga Futrell, two retired high school science teachers, to popularize
the term "bright" as a noun to cover atheists, agnostics, freethinkers, humanists,
and others who have no place for the supernatural in their worldviews. On the spur
of the moment, I decided to experiment with the term by announcing, to a large gathering
of high-achieving high school students from around the country, that I was a bright,
explaining what the term meant.
The effect was electrifying. Many of the students flocked to
me after my brief talk to exclaim that they had never encountered an adult who would
say such a thing and they were thrilled. They were brights, too, but had thought
they were alone. After that, perhaps half of the rest of the speakers at that conference,
including several Nobel laureates, casually mentioned that they, too, were brights,
to loud applause. This was an effect worth amplifying, so I wrote an op-ed piece
for the New York Times, "The Bright Stuff" (their title, not mine), in July
of 2003. It was the most e-mailed Times piece of the month, and I was importuned
by many to build on this beginning. The result was my three-year vacation from my
usual topics of research (consciousness, the brain, free will, and evolution) to
research and write Breaking the Spell: Religion as a Natural Phenomenon. That
in turn led to my collaboration with Linda on this book, as she explains in her
own personal story.




[1]
Me & Jesus—The Journey Home An Odyssey Marcus J. Borg http://www.westarinstitute.org/resources/the-fourth-r/me-jesus-the-journey-home/



[2]http://newsweek.washingtonpost.com/onfaith/panelists/daniel_c_dennett/2007/08/the_agony_of_misplaced_ecstasy.html










References and Resources
Here we list both the books and articles referred to or quoted
in the book and other selected resources: books, websites and podcasts our study
participants drew to our attention.
As a group, participants were information seekers and enjoyed
gaining knowledge and insights. For some, their exploration played a major role
in their initial movement away from religious belief. For others, the exploration
came later and served as reinforcement for what they had already determined based
on their own ideas and experiences.
Participants often started by seeking out the respected, bold
voices from their own traditions, then branched out to atheist thinkers. Bishop
Spong had a major influence on liberals, but not on conservatives. Conservatives
tended to seek out the milder voices from their own tradition, such as Rob Bell,
before moving on to atheist sources, such as Richard Dawkins. Both conservatives
and liberals enjoyed hearing about clergy who had left religion and learning about
science, particularly cognitive science and evolution.
Taking a fresh look at the Bible also had an impact. While rereading
and rethinking the Bible affected the beliefs of both liberals and conservatives,
the effect was greater and swifter on the conservatives, who did not have metaphorical
meanings to fall back on. Once they applied logic and scientific thinking to Bible
stories, their beliefs began to fall away.
Study participants cited the following resources as being influential
in their movement away from religious belief.
Books
Achtemeier, Paul, J., 1980, The Inspiration of Scripture: Problems
and Proposals (Biblical Perspectives on Current Issues). Louisville, KY: Westminster
John Knox.
Alban Institute, 2008, Becoming a Pastor: Reflections on the
Transition into Ministry http://www.alban.org/pdf/TiMReport.pdf
Armstrong, Karen,
1994, History of God. New York: Ballantine Books.
____, 2000, The
Battle for God: A History of Fundamentalism. New York: Knopf
____, 2009, interview on Fresh Air: http://www.npr.org/2009/09/21/112968197/karen-armstrong-builds-a-case-for-god
Barbour, Ian, G. 1974, Myths, Models and Paradigms: A comparative
Study in Science and Religion. New York: HarperCollins College Division
Barker, Dan, 1992,
Losing Faith in Faith: From Preacher to Atheist. Madison, WI: Freedom From
Religion Foundation.
____, 2008 Godless:
How An Evangelical Preacher became one of American's Leading Atheists. New York:
Ulysses Press
____, 2010 The Good Atheist: Living a Purpose-Filled Life Without
God. New York: Ulysses Press
Bell, Rob, 2005,
Velvet Elvis: Repainting the Christian Faith. Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.
____, 2011, Love Wins: A Book about Heaven, Hell, and the Fate
of Every Person Who Ever Lived. San Francisco, CA: HarperOne
Bonhoeffer, Dietrich, 1966, The Cost of Discipleship. New
York: MacMillian.
Borg, Marcus, 1994,
Meeting Jesus Again for the First Time. San Francisco: HarperCollins.
___, 1997, The
God We Never Knew: Beyond Dogmatic Religion to a More Authentic Contemporary Faith.
San Francisco, CA: Harper San Francisco.
___, 2001, Reading
the Bible Again for the First Time: Taking the Bible Seriously But Not Literally.
New York: HarperOne.
___, 2004, The
Heart of Christianity. San Francisco: HarperCollins.
___, 2010, commentary in Washington Post website "On Faith"
http://newsweek.washingtonpost.com/onfaith/marcus_borg/2006/12/dont_tell_them_anything_theyll.html
Bradley, Martha Sontage, 2000, Four Zinas. Salt Lake
City: Signature Books.
Brodie, Fawn, 1995, No Man Knows My History: The
Life of Joseph Smith. Free download: http://ebookee.org/No-Man-Knows-My-History-The-Life-of-Joseph-Smith_1874923.html
Buechner, Frederick, 1986, Wishful Thinking: A Theological ABC,
New York: Harper & Row.
Bushman, Richard, L, 2006, Joseph Smith: A Cultural Biography
of Mormonism's Founder: Rough Stone Rolling. New York: Knopf.
Chaucer, Geoffrey, 1475, The Canterbury Tales, free at:
http://www.canterburytales.org/canterbury_tales.html
Cline, Eric, H, 2007, From Eden to Exile: Unraveling Mysteries
of the Bible. Washington, DC: National Geographic.
Compere, John, S, 2010, Towards the Light. Writers Cramp
Publishing.
Cox, Harvey, 2002, The Future of Faith, New York: HarperOne.
Coyne, Jerry, A, 2009, Why Evolution is True. New York:
Viking.
Crossan, Dominic,
1993, The Historical Jesus: The Life of a Mediterranean Jewish Peasant. New
York: HarperOne.
____, 1998, The Birth of Christianity: Discovering What Happened
in the Years Immediately After the Execution of Jesus. New York: HarperOne.
Cupitt, Don, 2008, Above Us Only Sky. Oregon, CA: Polebridge
Press.
Daily, Steven, 1993, Adventism for a New Generation. Better
Living Publishers.
Daly, Mary, 1974, Beyond God the Father: Toward a Philosophy
of Women's Liberation. Boston, MA: Beacon Press.
Daniel, Lillian and Martin B. Copenhaver,
2009, This Odd and Wondrous Calling: the Public and Private Lives of Two
Ministers, Grand Rapids, Michigan William Eerdmans Publishing Company Grand
Rapids, Michigan
Daniels, Kenneth, W., 2009, Why I Believed: Reflections of a
Former Missionary. Dallas, TX: Kenneth W. Daniels.
Dart, John, 2003, "The Value of a Theological Education: Is It
Worth It?" The Christian Century, February 22, pp. 32-5
Dawkins, Richard,
1976, The Selfish Gene. Oxford University Press.
____, 1986, The
Blind Watchmaker. New York: W.W. Norton
____, 2006, The God Delusion. New York: W.W. Norton.
Dennett, Daniel
C. 1978, "Why You Can't Make a Computer that Feels Pain," Synthese,
38, 415-56, reprinted in Daniel C. Dennett, Brainstorms: Philosophical Essays
on Mind and Psychology, Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
____, 1991, Consciousness
Explained, Boston, MA: Little, Brown, 1991.
____, 1995, Darwin's
Dangerous Idea. New York: Simon and Shuster
____, 2006, Breaking
the Spell: Religion as a Natural Phenomenon. New York:
Viking.
____, 2012, "The
Social Cell: What Do Debutante Balls, the Japanese Tea Ceremony, Ponzi Schemes and
Doubting Clergy All Have in Common?" New Statesman, April 13, 2012.
____, 2013, Intuition Pumps and Other Tools for Thinking, New
York: W. W. Norton.
Dennett, Daniel and Linda LaScola, 2010, "Preachers Who Are Not
Believers," Evolutionary Psychology, 8:1, 122-50 (2010). http://www.epjournal.net/wp-content/uploads/EP08122150.pdf see also http://newsweek.washingtonpost.com/onfaith/Non-Believing-Clergy.pdf
de Botton, Alain, 2012, Religion for Atheists: A Non-believer's
Guide to the Uses of Religion. New York: Vintage.
DeWitt, Jerry, 2013, Hope After Faith, Boston, MA: Da Capo
Press. See also http://www.livingafterfaith.com/LAF00055AAJerryDewitt.mp3
Diamond, Jared, 1997, Guns, Germs and Steel: The Fates of Human
Societies. New York: W.W. Norton.
Dickerson, John S, 2013, The Great Evangelical Recession: 6
Factors That Will Crash the American Church. . .and How to Prepare, Grand Rapids,
MI: Baker Books, 2013.
Ehrman, Bart, 2005,
Misquoting Jesus: The Story Behind Who Changed the Bible and Why. San Francisco,
CA: HarperSanFranscisco.
____, 2008, God's
Problem: How the Bible Fails to Answer Our Most Important Question - Why We
Suffer. San Francisco: HarperOne.
____, 2009, Jesus,
Interrupted: Revealing the Hidden Contradictions in the Bible (and Why We Don't
Know About Them). San Francisco: HarperOne.
____, 2011, Forged: Writing in the Name of God. Why the Bible's
Authors Are Not Who We Think They Are. San Francisco: HarperOne.
Epstein, Greg, M., 2009, Good Without God: What a Billion Nonreligious
People Do Believe. New York: William Morrow.
Finkelstein, Israel, and Silberman, Neil Asher, 2001, The Bible
Unearthed: Archaeology's New Vision of Ancient Israel and the Origin of Its Sacred
Texts. New York: Free Press.
Frankl, Viktor, E., 1946, Man's Search for Meaning. Boston,
MA: Beacon Press.
Gish, Duane, T., 1997, Evolution? The Fossils Say No! Houston,
TX: Master Books.
Good, Andrew, J. (Jack), 1998, The Dishonest Church. St.
Louis, MO: Chalice Press.
Goodstein, Laurie,
2006, "Evangelicals Fear the Loss of Their Teenagers," New York Times,
Oct. 6.
____, 2013, "Some Mormons Search the Web and Find Doubt," New
York Times, July 20.
Haidt, Jonathan, 2006, The Happiness Hypothesis: Finding Modern
Truth in Ancient Wisdom. New York: Basic Books.
Harris, Sam, 2004,
The End of Faith: Religion, Terrorism and the Future of Reason. New York:
Norton.
____, 2006, Letter to a Christian Nation. New York: Knopf.
____, 2010, The Moral Landscape: How Science Can Determine Human
Values. New York: The Free Press.
Hitchens, Christopher, 2007, God is Not Great: How Religion
Poisons Everything. New York: Twelve.
Hurlin, Stephen, J., 2009, Courage to Doubt. Raider Publishing
International.
Jeskin, Alan, 2010, Outgrowing God: Moving Beyond Religion.
CreateSpace Independent Publishing Platform.
Johnson, Mary, 2011, An Unquenchable Thirst: A Memoir. New
York: Random House.
Kitcher, Philip, 2011, "Militant Modern
Atheism,' J. Appl. Philos., 28:1, 1-13.
Kugel, James L., 2007, How to Read The Bible: A Guide to Scripture,
Then and Now. New York: Free Press.
Kuhn, Thomas, 1962, The Structure of Scientific Revolution.
Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Kushner, Harold S., 1978, When Bad Things Happen to Good People.
New York: Random House.
Lax, Eric, 2010, Faith Interrupted: A Spiritual Journey.
New York: Knopf.
Lewis, Sam M. and Joe Young, 1919, "How 'ya gonna keep 'em down
on the farm?" New York: Waterson, Berlin & Snyder Co., Music Publishing.
Lobdell, William, 2009, Losing My Religion: How I Lost My Faith
Reporting on Religion in America and Found Unexpected Peace. New York:
Harper Collins.
Loftus, John W.,
2008, Why I Became an Atheist: A Former Preacher Rejects Christianity. Amherst,
NY: Prometheus Books.
____ (editor),
2010, The Christian Delusion: Why Faith Fails. Amherst, NY: Prometheus
Books.
____ (editor), 2011, The End of Christianity. Amherst, NY:
Prometheus Books.
McDowell, Josh, 1972, Evidence that Demands a Verdict. San
Bernardino, CA: Here's Life Publishers.
McLaren, Brian, 2011, A New Kind of Christianity. New York:
HarperOne.
McNaught, Brian, 1997, Now that I'm Out What Do I Do? New
York: St. Martin's Press.
Merla, Patrick, 1997, Boys Like Us: Gay Writers Tell Their Coming
Out Stories. New York: William Morrow Paperbacks.
Merton, Thomas, 1948, Seven Storey Mountain. New York: Harcourt
Brace.
Monette, Paul, 1992, Becoming a Man: Half a Life Story.
New York: Harcourt Brace Jovanovich.
Paine, Thomas, 1794, 1795, 1800, The Age of Reason. Free
download: http://www.deism.com/images/theageofreason1794.pdf
Pinker, Steven, 2002, The Blank Slate: The Modern Denial of
Human Nature. New York: Viking.
Quinn, Michael D., 1998, Early Mormonism and the Magic World
Views. Salt Lake City: Signature Books.
Raine, Adrian, 2013, The Anatomy of Violence: The Biological
Roots of Crime. New York: Pantheon.
Ray, Darrel, 2009, The God Virus: How Religion Infects Our Lives
and Culture. IPC Press.
Real, Terrance, 1998, I Don't Want to Talk About It: Overcoming
the Secret Legacy of Male Depression. New York: Fireside Simon & Schuster.
Reuther, Rosemary
Radford, 1974, Religion and Sexism: Images of Woman in the Jewish and Christian
Traditions. New York: Simon & Schuster.
____, 1983, Sexism
and God Talk: Toward a Feminist Theology. Boston, MA: Beacon Press.
____, 1985, Women-Church: Theology and Practice of Feminist
Liturgical Communities. New York: Harper & Row.
Robinson, John, A.T., 1963, Honest to God. Louisville, KY:
Westminster John Knox.
Semple, Patrick, 2008, The Rector Who Wouldn't Pray For Rain.
Cork, Ireland: Mercier Press.
Shimron, Yonat, 2010, "Pastor Sticks up for Modern View of God,"
Raleigh News & Observer, August 2, 2010.
Shermer, Michael, 2012, The Believing Brain: From Ghosts and Gods to Politics
and Conspiracies---How We Construct Beliefs and Reinforce Them as Truths. New
York: St. Martin's Griffin.
Spencer, Michael, 2009, "The Coming Evangelical Collapse," Christian
Science Monitor, March 10, 2009.
Spong, John, Shelby,
1991, Rescuing the Bible from Fundamentalism: A Bishop Rethinks the Meaning of
Scripture. HarperSanFrancisco.
____, 1998, Why
Christianity must Change or Die: A Bishop Speaks to Believers in Exile. HarperSanFrancisco.
____, 2005, The
Sins of Scripture: Exposing the Bible's tests of Hate to Reveal the God of Love.
HarperSanFrancisco.
____, 2009, Jesus for the Non-Religious. New York: HarperCollins.
Strobel, Lee, 1998, The Case for Christ: A Journalist's Personal
Investigation of the Evidence for Jesus. Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.
Talbot, John Michael, 2008, "Be Not Afraid"
Thomson, J. Anderson, Jr., and Aukofer, Clair, 2011, Why We
Believe in God(s). Charlottesville, VA: Pitchstone.
Tillich, Paul, 1951, Systematic Theology: Volume I. Chicago,
IL: University of Chicago Press.
Uhl, Stephen Frederick, 2007, Out of God's Closet: This Priest
Psychologist Chooses Friendly Atheism. OroValley, AZ: Golden Rule Publishers.
Unamuno, Miguel, 1930, San Manuel Bueno, Martir, http://www4.gvsu.edu/wrightd/SPA%20307%20Death/SaintManuelBueno.htm
(free, online English Translation).
Updike, John, 1996, In the Beauty of the Lilies. New York:
Random House.
Walsh, Michael (editor), 1956, Butler's Lives of the Saints:
Concise Edition Revised & Updated. San Francisco: Harper Collins.
Weatherhead, Leslie,
D., 1944, The Will of God. Abingdon Press reprint, (1987)
____, 1965, The Christian Agnostic. Abingdon/Nashville,
KY: Festival Books.
Wilkerson, David, and Sherrill, Elizabeth and John, 1962, The
Cross and the Switchblade. New York: Penguin.
Wilson, David Sloan, 2007, Evolution for Everyone: How Darwin's
Theory Can Change the Way We Think About Our Lives. New York: Delacorte Press.
Wright, Robert,
1994, The Moral Animal: Why We Are, the Way We Are: The New Science of Evolutionary
Psychology. New York: Vintage.
____, 2009, The Evolution of God. New York: Little, Brown
and Company.
"Andy's List"
The following resources were provided by study participant
"Andy." They influenced him as he moved from Southern Baptist to United Church of
Christ to agnostic.
Altizer, Thomas J.J., 1966, The Gospel of Christian Atheism.
Philadelphia: Westminster.
Aronson, Ronald, 2008, Living Without God: New Directions for
Atheists, Agnostics, Secularists and the Undecided. Berkeley, CA: Counterpoint.
Bellinzoni, Arthur, 2006, The Future of Christianity: Can It
Survive? Amherst, NY: Prometheus.
Berger, Peter L. and Thomas Luckmann, 1966, The Social Construction
of Reality: A Treatise in the Sociology of Knowledge. New York: Doubleday.
Freeman, Charles. A.D., 2008, 381: Heretics, Pagans, and the
Dawn of the Monotheistic State. New York: Overlook.
Geering, Lloyd, 2002, Christianity Without God. Santa Rosa,
CA: Polebridge.
Meyers, Robin, 2009, Saving Jesus from the Church: How to Stop
Worshiping Christ and Start Following Jesus. New York: Harper.
Neusch Marcel, 1977, The Sources of Modern Atheism. New
York: Paulist.
Van Buren, Paul, 1963, The Secular Meaning of the Gospel, Based
on an Analysis of its Language. New York: Macmillan.
Internet Resources - Websites, Blogs, Podcasts
Loosely
alphabetized and with some brief descriptions
"Adam Mann's" Study List, http://www.clergyproject.org/links/resources/.
32 page list compiled by pilot study participant.
Andrews, Seth, The Thinking Atheist Blog. http://www.thethinkingatheist.com/blog
The Bible http://www.kingjamesbibleonline.org/
The Book of Mormon http://mormon.org/discover/002/07-book-of-mormon.html?gclid=CKTe7dDH6roCFa1QOgodnA8AEg&CID=99110386&ef_id=UogNHQAABe-PagXb:20131117002605:s
Rudolf Bultmann http://www.theopedia.com/Rudolf_Karl_Bultmann
"Rudolf Karl Bultmann (1884 - 1976) was a German Lutheran
theologian. He is well known for his "demythologizing" of the New Testament,
and was influenced by the existentialism of Martin Heidegger. Educated at the universities
of Tübingen, Berlin, and Marburg, Bultmann taught at the universities of Breslau
and Giessen and from 1921 to 1950 was professor at the University of Marburg."
Joseph Campbell Website: http://www.jcf.org/new/index.php
"Joseph John Campbell was an American mythologist, writer
and lecturer, best known for his work in comparative mythology and comparative religion.
His work is vast, covering many aspects of the human experience. His philosophy
is often summarized by his phrase: 'Follow your bliss.'" http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joseph_Campbell
Tony Campolo Website: http://tonycampolo.org/ "speaker, author, sociologist,
pastor, social activist and passionate follower of Jesus!"
The Center for Progressive Christianity: http://progressivechristianity.org/
The Clergy Project: http://www.clergyproject.org/
Common Sense Atheism: http://commonsenseatheism.com/
Debunking Christianity Website: written by former minister,
John Loftus: http://debunkingchristianity.blogspot.com/
Episcopal Prayer Book: The Ordination of a Priest http://www.bcponline.org/
EpiscopalServices/ordination_of_a_priest.htm
Ex-Mormon Website: http://www.exmormon.org/
Freethought Today, http://ffrf.org/publications/freethought-today
"Freethought Today covers timely news related to state/church separation and includes
articles of interest to freethinkers."
The writings of Bruce Gerenscer, former Evangelical
preacher, http://brucegerencser.net/
Stephen Hawking, Discovery Channel, Curiosity Show:
"Did God Create the Universe?" 7 August, 2011, http://dsc.discovery.com/tv-shows/curiosity/topics/did-god-create-the-universe.htm
The Jesus Seminar http://www.westarinstitute.org/projects/the-jesus-seminar/,
founded by Robert W. Funk. "The Jesus Seminar was organized in 1985 to renew the
quest of the historical Jesus and to report the results of its research to the general
public, rather than just to a handful of gospel specialists."
The Great Courses Network: The New Testament, by Bart
Ehrman, http://www.thegreatcourses.com/tgc/professors/professor_detail.aspx?pid=150
The writings of Rabbi Mordecai Kaplan, Orthodox turned
Reconstructionist: http://www.jewishvirtuallibrary.org/jsource/biography/kaplan.html
The writings of Orthodox American-Israeli Rabbi Meir Kahane:
http://www.jewishvirtuallibrary.org/jsource/biography/kahane.html
The work of Karen King, professor, Harvard Divinity
School http://www.hds.harvard.edu/people/faculty/karen-l-king
Opus Dei, http://www.opusdei.org/:
"Opus Dei is a Catholic institution founded by Saint Josemaría Escrivá. Its mission
is to help people turn their work and daily activities into occasions for growing
closer to God, for serving others, and for improving society."
Stephen J. Patterson: http://www.willamette.edu/cla/religion/faculty/patterson/
"Dr. Patterson is an historian of religion specializing in
the beginnings of Christianity. His research and writing have focused on the Gospel
of Thomas, Q, and various aspects of the historical study of Jesus."
Paul's Letters http://tyndalearchive.com/scriptures/www.innvista.com/scriptures/
compare/letters.htm
Bishop Carlton Pearson http://www.bishoppearson.com/
"As a result of what Carlton calls 'Expanded Consciousness',
he strongly advocates personal evolution, transformation and Self Actualization.
He says his deep roots in Pentecostalist transcendence have informed his embrace
of a more Metaphysical approach to life, scriptural interpretation and spirituality."
Pew Research Religion & Public Life Project, 2012, " 'Nones'
on the Rise,", October 9, 2012. http://www.pewforum.org/unaffiliated/nones-on-the-rise.aspx
Reasonable Doubts Website: http://freethoughtblogs.com/reasonabledoubts
"Reasonable Doubts is an award winning radio show [WPRR Reality
Radio (Grand Rapids, MI)] and podcast for people who won't "just take things
on faith." RD's mission is to investigate the claims of religion from a fair-minded
yet critical perspective."
ReligionLink describes itself as "the ultimate source for
journalists reporting on religion" and "a non-partisan service of Religion
Newswriters Association and Religion News LLC . . . created by journalists, for
journalists.
http://www.religionlink.com/
Sojourners Website (Jim Wallis): http://sojo.net/ "Sojourners is a national Christian
organization committed to faith in action for social justice. We seek to inspire
hope and build a movement to transform individuals, communities, the church, and
the world."
South Park "Red Hot Catholic Love," Season 6, Episode 8 http://www.southparkstudios.com/full-episodes/s06e08-red-hot-catholic-love
or http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/11/17/top-10-south-park-episode_n_824696.html#slide=480114
, clips of 10 episodes dealing with religion.
Bishop John Shelby Spong, A New Christianity for a
New World: http://johnshelbyspong.com/
Julia Sweeney, Letting go of God Monologue,
http://juliasweeney.com/letting-go-of-god/
TED Talks http://www.ted.com/pages/about
(Technology, Entertainment, Design - Ideas worth Spreading) http://www.ted.com/topics/atheism;
http://www.ted.com/topics/religion









Acknowledgments
We wish to thank all our study participants, whose
courage in volunteering should not be underestimated. Our highest obligation is
to honor the trust they put in us, by preserving their anonymity while putting
their contributions to use in the service of greater understanding of these
complex issues.
Our study was funded by a small group of donors who prefer
not to be named, and by Steven and Diane Uhl. We are grateful to them all, and
to the Institutional Review Board of Tufts University for advising us and
approving the design and execution of our study.
We could never have conducted our first study without the
early and continuing help of Dan Barker of the Freedom from Religion
Foundation, and the late Reverend James Rowe Adams, founder of the Center for
Progressive Christianity. Others who advised us include Dan's sister, Cynthia
Yee, who is an ordained United Church of Christ minister and a hospice chaplain
in Vermont, and Rabbi Robert Goldstein. Bart Ehrman, the author and religious
studies professor at the University of North Carolina, helped us find seminary
professors, providing a short list of professors and permission to use his name
when inviting their participation.
We were ably assisted throughout the project by Rosina Maiers,
who provided both practical and analytic support, and Teresa Salvato, Program
Coordinator at the Center for Cognitive Studies, who oversaw the budget and
handled logistical details regarding both the conduct of the study and the
production of the book. We are also grateful to Sara Lippincott, whose
sharp-eyed editorial work did much to improve the shape, substance, and clarity
of the book.
Linda wants to acknowledge the continuing advice and support
from her Humanist Book Club, Pamela J. Blake, Carmen Vaughn, Mary Beth
Favorite, the Women in Communications lunch group and her clever and exacting
husband, Art Siebens.
Dan wants to thank John Brockman, as usual, for expert
advice and encouragement, and his wife, Susan, for a bounty of good
suggestions.
















