



DIABETES
Contents
 
CHAPTER 1: INTRODUCTION
WHAT IS DIABETES?
CHAPTER 2: TYPES OF DIABETES YOU MIGHT HAVE AND THE SYMPTOMS
CHAPTER 3: FACTORS CAUSING DIABETES
CHAPTER 4: TIPS TO MANAGE YOUR DIABETES
CHAPTER 5: THE DIABETIC NUTRITIONAL STRATEGY
CHAPTER SIX: FOODS TO CONSUME WHILE YOU ARE DIABETIC
CHAPTER SEVEN: FOODS YOU SHOULD AVOID WHEN YOU ARE DIABETIC
CHAPTER 8: EXERCISES FOR CONTROLLING YOUR DIABETES
CHAPTER 9: STRESS RELIEF FOR DIABETES
CHAPTER 10: SUPPLEMENTS TO HELP YOUR DIABETES

 











David Corr Copyright © 2015
 
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced in any form without permission in writing from the author. Reviewers may quote brief passages in reviews.
Disclaimer
No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, mechanical or electronic, including photocopying or recording, or by any information storage and retrieval system, or transmitted by email without permission in writing from the publisher.
While all attempts and efforts have been made to verify the information held within this publication, neither the author nor the publisher assumes any responsibility for errors, omissions, or opposing interpretations of the content herein.
This book is for entertainment purposes only. The views expressed are those of the author alone, and should not be taken as expert instruction or commands. The reader of this book is responsible for his or her own actions when it comes to reading the book.
Adherence to all applicable laws and regulations, including international, federal, state, and local governing professional licensing, business practices, advertising, and all other aspects of doing business in the US, Canada, or any other jurisdiction is the sole responsibility of the purchaser or reader.
Neither the author nor the publisher assumes any responsibility or liability whatsoever on the behalf of the purchaser or reader of these materials.
Any received slight of any individual or organization is purely unintentional. 
This book is not a medical journal or am I offering you medical advice.  The content in this book is for educational purposes only and you should consult with a licensed physician before taking any actions
 







ATTENTION: GET YOUR FREE GIFT
 
This Free Ebook is going to show you seven herbs specifically used to lower your blood sugar levels, regenerate the islet cells of the pancreas and protect against the effect of excess blood sugar.
Consumption of these herbs, along with a combination of good diet and lifestyle will not only prevent you from getting impacted with, but also help you reverse your diabetes.
Click the Image Below
 


Click here to get free access










CHAPTER 1: INTRODUCTION
 
Excessive thirst, frequent urination, blurry vision, tiredness, tingling sensation in your extremities, wounds that take too long to heal - you notice these symptoms, visit your doctor, are advised some blood work ........and then .......a sad reality dawns on you!
You!  Of all the people....you have been impacted by diabetes!
You are scared because you have heard that diabetes is irreversible. You know about friends and family who are struggling with diabetes and trying to live a normal life. 
How did this disease find you? You never wanted it!
Well, if you or any of your family members are struggling with diabetes, then you understand these symptoms very well. You would have also heard that diabetes is irreversible. 
Now, here is the deal - Diabetes can be reversed and this book will teach you how. 
It will require a great deal of effort from your part in order to fight and reverse your diabetes. It is a battle that you should be ready to fight. And if you are willing to put in the effort, you will receive a huge reward towards the end - a healthy life without diabetes!
Before we go further, let us try and understand diabetes. 
 
 
 
 
 







WHAT IS DIABETES?
 
Diabetes is a chronic health condition in which your body demonstrates a reduced ability to remove glucose from your blood and into its cells after eating or drinking anything that contains carbohydrates. This reduced ability leads to hyperglycemia or elevated blood glucose level. 
It is often referred to as the 'silent killer' because many individuals do not even know that they have it. 
Your body uses a variety of enzymes to breakdown the food that you eat. Food is broken down into macro and micro nutrients which in turn are used in different parts of the body for different jobs. As an example, the fat is used to facilitate brain health whereas the carbohydrates are used to provide energy to the body. 
The carbohydrates are the complex sugars that are broken down into simpler forms referred to as glucose. Glucose is then released into your blood stream for immediate release as energy or for storage to facilitate later use. 
In order to store and use glucose, your body produces a hormone called insulin. This is manufactured by the beta cells in your pancreas. These cells are sensitive to the concentration of insulin in your bloodstream and can release it on an as needed basis. They monitor the amount of blood sugar in your blood stream to elevate or decrease the production of insulin. The beta cells in your pancreas need to release more insulin in order to deal with the elevated blood glucose level. Now, as this insulin is produced, the enzymes activate other cells in your body telling them to accept glucose as energy. This gradually diminishes the amount of glucose circulating in the bloodstream, leading to decreased production of insulin. 
The process is a continuous one and is not dependent on what, how and when you eat. Blood sugar level can increase in your blood stream after consumption of a high carbohydrate diet, even if you do not have diabetes. 
The balance between energy and insulin is what provides you the energy to function normally. 
Diabetes as a disease impacts this process and therefore the ability of your body to naturally produce insulin in balanced amounts. 
 
Depending on the kind of diabetes that you have been impacted with, the natural process can be impacted in a number of ways -this may include the inability of beta cells in your pancreas to produce insulin as a consequence of being overworked. As your blood glucose level reaches 180 mg/dl, your kidneys attempt to flush out the excess glucose through urination. This is primarily the reason why excessive urination and thirst are important signs in diabetes. 
If unchecked, diabetes can be a serious, even life-threatening disease leading to threatening complications such as blindness, gangrenes or even death due to diabetic coma. 
Let us first try and understand the kind of diabetes that you have. 
 







CHAPTER 2: TYPES OF DIABETES YOU MIGHT HAVE AND THE SYMPTOMS
 
There are three different types of diabetes - type 1, type 2, and gestational diabetes. All three kinds are related to insulin sensitivity.  Let us look at these in a little more detail:
 
TYPE 1 DIABETES
The Type 1 Diabetes can happen at any age and is generally referred to as juvenile diabetes or IDDM (Insulin Dependent Diabetes Mellitus). It is autoimmune and generally manifests itself before the age of 20. In patients over the age of 30, your doctor may refer to this as LADA - Latent Autoimmune Disease of Adulthood. 
This kind of diabetes is quite rare and only five percent of individuals with diabetes have this kind of diabetes. 
In type 1 diabetes, the patient's pancreas manufactures little to no insulin naturally. In fact, they often lack the actual beta cells needed for the production of insulin. In cases where beta cells are being attacked and destroyed, the symptoms only appear when the number of cells goes down. 
Most medical practitioners believe that type 1 diabetes is genetic, however, a few attribute this to a viral attack too! Some scientists believe that it is caused by the immune system attacking the pancreas, destroying beta cells and stopping them from functioning. 
Others feel that it is your body's reaction to certain viruses that initiates this in error. Most scientists however agree that there is a genetic predisposition involved. 
Type 1 diabetes sufferers will have the disease for life since if the cells that produce insulin are destroyed, they cannot be reproduced. 
Patients diagnosed with IDDM may require regular insulin injections. 
The symptoms of insulin dependent diabetes may include tiredness, unexplained weight loss, increased need to urinate, general itchiness, and excessive thirst. It is often misdiagnosed as type 2 diabetes. 
Complications of type 1 diabetes include ketoacidosis and hypoglycemia. It may also lead to conditions such as kidney failure, neuropathy, retinopathy, stroke and heart diseases. 
There is no known preventive mechanism for type 1 diabetes. 
 
TYPE 2 DIABETES
Type 2 diabetes is also called diabetes mellitus. It normally impacts overweight individuals, especially during their old age. Sedentary lifestyle has been attributed as the main cause for this kind of diabetes. It is generally called the adult onset diabetes - although a number of children are also being diagnosed with type 2 diabetes - primarily because of their sedentary lifestyles. Around 90% of the total diabetic cases are type 2 diabetic cases. 
In this kind of diabetes, the pancreatic cells are able to produce normal amounts of insulin. However, for reasons unknown, your body is unable to use this insulin effectively. This condition is also called insulin resistance. The ineffective insulin levels in your body lead to spikes in your blood sugar level, which in turn damages your cells. 
Generally triggered by a sedentary lifestyle, this form of diabetes can be hereditary as well, in case your parent or sibling has ever been diagnosed with diabetes. 
Here are a few risk factors for this kind of diabetes:

Being overweight
Sedentary lifestyle
Relatives previously diagnosed with diabetes
Unhealthy diet
Smoking
High blood pressure
African-Caribbean descent or Asian descent

Type 2 diabetes generally triggers after 40, the common symptoms including excessive thirst, frequent urination, nausea, blurred vision, weight loss, slow wound healing, along with loss in muscle mass, tiredness and hunger. Sometimes these symptoms persist for months and even diabetics are unable to figure out that they have been impacted. 
The chance of inheriting type 2 diabetes in children is as high as 75% in case both parents have been previously diagnosed with diabetes. 
The onset of type 2 diabetes is not as immediate as type 1 diabetes. In fact, there may be certain individuals who may not demonstrate any visible symptoms. 
The treatment generally involves dietary and lifestyle modifications, incorporating moderate forms of exercise and eliminating unhealthy foods. Sometimes, you may need to take diabetic medications too. 
People suffering with type 2 diabetes are advised to keep a check on their blood sugar levels in order to avoid diabetic complications.
Patients are even advised insulin injections in case their condition worsens. 
 
GESTATIONAL DIABETES
Gestational diabetes typically develops during pregnancy and is generally not tested until week 24, unless you have specific associated risk factors. This is caused by fluctuation of hormones during pregnancy, generally during the second or third trimester. 
It affects only 2-10% of the pregnancies and is more common in American Indians, African Americans, and Hispanic Americans. It is also common in women whose family has history of diabetes. This kind of diabetes is easily manageable and typically goes away after child birth if the woman takes care of her dietary and exercise habits. 
A few women may also need injections in order to diminish the risk of hyperglycemia for both, mother and baby. Vomiting and tiredness are common symptoms during gestational diabetes. 
Complications such as high birth weight babies are extremely common and child birth normally happens through a Caesarean section. Frequent testing for ketones is also very important and ketoacidosis is fatal to the fetus. 
 







CHAPTER 3: FACTORS CAUSING DIABETES
 
In order to eliminate diabetes from your life, you must understand the factors that cause it. Here are some of these factors:
Obesity: Being overweight or obese has been identified as the number one risk factor for diabetes. In fact, 80% of people diagnosed with type 2 diabetes are overweight. 
Cigarette Smoking: Cigarette smoke elevates the level of inflammation in your body. This increases the risk of diabetes in smokers as opposed to non-smokers. Smoking can also elevate the level of blood glucose in your body and hence worsen your insulin resistance. 
Physical Inactivity: Physical Inactivity can increase your risk of diabetes, even if you are not overweight or obese. On the other hand, in case you are overweight or obese - physical activity can help you reduce your risk of diabetes. 
Saturated Fats: Replacing your saturated fat with healthy fats such as avocados, nuts and olive oil can reduce insulin resistance. 
Low Fiber Diet: A diet rich in fiber helps in decreasing the amount of insulin needed after a snack or meal. 
Sugar Sweetened Beverages: Research shows that people who consume as low as two sugar sweetened beverages in a day have a 26% higher risk of developing type 2 diabetes than people who consume less than one soda a month. 
Men with Low Testosterone: Research is now showing that low testosterone and diabetes have a connection and that men with type 2 diabetes are 2 times more likely to have lower testosterone
Low testosterone can lead to a decrease in libido, erectile dysfunction and lack of energy but the good news is that testosterone can be naturally boosted with some wise choices. To read a good article on how to boost testosterone naturally  click here.








CHAPTER 4: TIPS TO MANAGE YOUR DIABETES
 
A number of individuals mistake their symptoms for some other condition and hence their diabetes remains undiagnosed for a long time. 
Hence the first tip to managing diabetes once you become aware that you have been impacted is to NOT PANIC - Diabetes is a condition that can be managed really well, provided you adhere to the advice provided by your health care provider. 
All that is required from your side is the willingness to educate yourself about your condition, awareness of its complications and readiness to follow a strict dietary and lifestyle protocol. You may also need to take your medicines (whatever your healthcare provider recommends). You will also need to monitor your blood glucose levels at home - sometimes these may become dangerously low - when you do not eat at regular intervals or when you are using certain herbs along with prescription medication. 
Your main focus should be on ensuring that your blood glucose, blood pressure and cholesterol levels are in control. 
Here are some tips to manage your diabetes:
Medications: The first line of action here is to treat your type 2 diabetes is generally anti-diabetic medications, and/or oral or IV insulin administration. Generally, insulin therapy is prescribed for type 1 diabetes. However, it may be required for certain type 2 cases as well. You must monitor your blood sugar levels closely since type 2 diabetes is a progressive condition and may need you to adjust your medications depending on your blood sugar level. All adjustments should be done under expert medical supervision. 
However, only medicines will not be able to control your diabetes. There are several other attached conditions, which we will discuss further. 
Regular examination of blood glucose levels: If possible, you should monitor your blood glucose levels every day in order to ensure that everything is under control. Medications, stress, physical activity, other illnesses and the foods you eat can all impact your blood glucose levels. Some people avoid regular blood sugar testing. My suggestion is to consult with your health care provider on the frequency at which you will need to check. 
Quality Sleep: Quality sleep is extremely important to effectively manage diabetes. Did you know that even a single night of sleep deficiency can reduce your sensitivity to insulin by almost 25%? Reduced sleep or insomnia can result in hormone fluctuations which in turn leads to an elevation in your blood glucose levels, leading to weight gain. 
Stress Management: Physical or mental stress can aggravate your diabetes. The degree at which stress impacts your blood glucose levels varies from one person to another. Studies show that almost all kinds of stress leads to a blood sugar spike. You will read about some amazing stress management techniques in the later chapters of the book. 
Quit Smoking: Smoking elevates your risk of diabetes. If you are a smoker, dealing with complications of diabetes becomes all the more difficult. The reason for this is because smoking narrows your blood vessels, elevates your blood glucose levels and leads to inflammations. This also means that there is an increased threat of blood vessel damage, kidney damage, and foot and leg infections in smokers. 
I should also warn you that most people put on weight once they quit smoking. The reason for this is their increased tendency to overeat in order to curb the desire for smoking. Be prepared to tackle this problem bravely by incorporating healthy lifestyle and dietary choices. 
Regular exercise: Exercise not only has a multifold impact on controlling and even reversing your diabetes, but also helps in burning fat and maintaining an optimum weight. Practicing any kind of exercise for at least thirty minutes in a day can improve your insulin sensitivity, maintain your blood glucose level and even diminish your risk of developing heart diseases. Brisk walking, running, cycling, dancing, swimming and biking are some of the recommended exercises that can elevate your heart rate and control your diabetes. 
Brushing properly and appropriate dental care: The possibility of tooth decay increases in people impacted with diabetes. This is because in diabetes, the blood sugar level not only rises in your bloodstream, but also in your saliva. Since diabetes makes it difficult to fight infection, dealing with tooth decay can be extremely frustrating. Therefore, in order to maintain healthy gums and teeth, it is important to brush with fluoride toothpaste at least twice a day and visit your dentist regularly. 
Give utmost importance to foot care: Diabetics must always keep their feet dry and clean and nerve damage in extremities is the most common complication of diabetes. Wash your feet everyday with lukewarm water and inspect them carefully every day. Diabetic neuropathy may lead to numbness in your feet which will make your ability to feel calluses, sores, blisters, etc. very difficult. This is the reason careful foot examination is recommended. Always wear comfortable slippers and soft, clean socks to keep your feet safe. 
Regular Health Check-ups: It is important to go for routine check-ups regularly. This ensures that any complication is detected and treated at an early stage itself. Self-evaluation through regular monitoring of blood sugar, blood glucose, weight and foot evaluation is extremely necessary. 
Your doctor may advise you to go for regular blood tests, including the A1C test. This is a blood marker that provides average blood sugar data for the past three months. 
Alternative forms of treatment: Before beginning with any alternative therapies, it is important to consult with your health care provider. Such treatments options are holistic and impact all parts of a person's life. In some individuals, symptoms of diabetes can be treated through alternative therapies such as:

Aromatherapy
Guided Imagery
Ayurveda
Homeopathy
Massage Therapy
Biofeedback
Dietary Supplements
Chinese Medicine and Acupuncture
Color, Music or Art Therapy
Herbal and Natural Therapies

 
A number of herbs are known to help with blood sugar levels. Don't forget to sign up for your copy of 'Seven Top Herbs for Diabetics.' - 
The link is provided towards the end of the book or you can receive this free book by clicking here.
 







CHAPTER 5: THE DIABETIC NUTRITIONAL STRATEGY
 
Healthy lifestyle modifications alone can help you reap great rewards in case you are a diabetic or suffer from risk of diabetes. In case you are 1obese, simply reducing 10% of your weight can help in lowering your blood pressure, blood sugar and cholesterol levels. 
And losing weight is not attributed solely to exercise - the key to losing weight is sensible eating. 
Diabetics do not need to follow a complex diet plan - their nutritional requirements are similar to non-diabetics. A diabetic meal plan includes a nutritious, balanced diet low in fats and containing a reasonable amount of calories. 
You MUST exercise caution with your carbohydrate intake.
Here are some tips that you can incorporate with respect to the diet that you follow:
Consume whole grains and lean proteins: Most Americans have grown up eating white bread sandwiches, pasta and refined white rice. You love 'refined' because you understand 'refined' as 'polished' or 'free from impurities', don't you? Well, in reality 'refined' implies 'free from nutrition.' 
All the great, nutritive stuff is refined out from the food material and what you are left with is a bunch of empty calories! Now that surely is alarming, isn't it?
Whole grains, on the other hand, constitute your powerful punch of nutrition. They are packed with disease fighting anti-oxidants and phytochemicals, vitamins, iron, fiber, magnesium and vitamin E. Elevating your daily consumption of whole grains can help you diminish the risk of cancer, stroke, heart diseases along with diabetes. 
Let us look at what can be classified as a whole grain?I shall attempt to explain this via the structure of seed. The seed comprises of three parts:

The bran
The germ
The endosperm

The process of refining removes certain parts of the seed. Wheat, rice, barley, oats, quinoa, etc. are all whole grains if consumed in their 'whole' form - that is without the removal of any part of the seed. 
Talking about protein now - Protein is essential for physical development and growth. Seven grams of protein per twenty pounds of body weight is recommended for consumption every day. Proteins contain essential amino acids which are essential for life but cannot be solely manufactured by humans. Vegetables, fruits, nuts and grains can be called incomplete proteins because they are deficient in at least one of the essential amino acids. Animal proteins are considered to be complete proteins as they possess all the essential amino acids required by the human body. Lean meat is considered as the best source of protein. Nuts, beans, poultry and fish are some great protein choices for diabetics. 
Consume unsaturated fats only Fats impart a great taste to your food. You cannot cut down on fats altogether. In fact, you must not! This is because fats contain essential fatty acids that can enable you to control blood pressure, inflammation and blood clotting. Controlling blood pressure and inflammation is extremely important in controlling diabetes.  
There are two kinds of fats: 

The good fats or the unsaturated fats which are further classified as monounsaturated fats (olive oil is the most popular one in this category) or the polyunsaturated fats (these are present in sunflower, safflower, soybean and corn oil). 
The bad fats which can be further broken down into saturated fats (found in cheese, butter, whole milk ice-cream, fatty meats, palm and coconut oils) and the trans fats (found in fried, processed, pre-packaged foods). 

Saturated fats can lead to heart diseases, inflammation, diabetes and even cancer. Trans fats are considered to be the most dangerous ones here. 
The monounsaturated fats, on the other hand can diminish the level of bad cholesterol and elevate the levels of good cholesterol in your body. The omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids are the polyunsaturated fats - these are extremely important for the human body. However, do ensure that you are consuming a greater amount of omega-3 than omega-6. 
Consume one great source of omega-3 fatty acids every day: Here are some of the benefits of consuming one great source of omega-3 fatty acids every day:

Omega-3 fatty acids help in reducing the inflammation present in your body. This also reduces the risk of inflammatory diseases such as ulcerative colitis, rheumatoid arthritis, Crohn's disease, etc. 
They lower the risk of diabetes and also help in diminishing insulin resistance in people impacted by diabetes. 
Omega-3's also eliminate the risk of certain kinds of cancer such as breast cancer, colon cancer and prostate cancer. 
They elevate your bone density. 
Omega-3's are particularly helpful in skin diseases such as eczema and psoriasis. 
They help in elevating your brain chemicals - serotonin and dopamine. 
Omega-3 fatty acids have been known to help with cognitive and visual skills. 
They can even eliminate the risk of Alzheimer's. 
They reduce the risk of hypertension, blood clots and atherosclerosis. 

There are three kinds of omega-3 fatty acids:

EPA: sourced from marine mammals
DHA: sourced from marine mammals
ALA: sourced from plant oils

All three possess the capability to block the inflammation causing compounds in your body. This lowers the risk of diabetes.  
Here are some excellent sources of omega-3 fatty acids:

EPA: Mackerel, Salmon, Tuna, Sardines, Shark, Sea bass
DHA: Wild Salmon, Tuna, Mackerel, Shark, Sardines, Omega-3 enriched eggs
ALA: Walnuts, Flaxseeds, Soybean oil, Canola oil, Omega-3 enriched eggs, Flax oils, Sardines 

And now let us talk about the ratio of omega-6 to omega-3 fatty acids. So, what is the recommended ratio?
It is important to understand that omega-6 fatty acids, if consumed in large quantities produce arachidonic acid which elevates the inflammation in your body. Omega-6 fatty acids are therefore considered to be pro-inflammatory while omega-3's are anti-inflammatory. Anything that is pro-inflammatory is BAD for diabetics. 
The traditional hunter gatherer diet or the Eskimo diet maintained a ratio of 1:1. This has increased at an alarming rate today. The processed and prepackaged food has made matters worse. Although it is highly recommended that you cut down on excessive consumption of omega-6 fatty acids, what matters most is that you are consuming a great source of omega-3 fatty acids every day. 
Your best bet for fast food should be veggies and fruits: Fruits and vegetables constitute the perfect fast food. 
Hungry? That packet of instant noodles will still take two minutes, just grab an apple and take a bite! 
The fiber in veggies and fruits can bind to the cholesterol and therefore, facilitate flushing it out of the bloodstream. The recommended intake of fruits and veggies for an adult male or a teenage boy is around nine servings. Women and teenage girls should aim at a minimum of seven servings. Try increasing your intake of veggies and fruits by adding one extra serving every week. The next chapter is focused on specific foods that you should or should not eat. Do read that before getting started. 
Eliminate prepackaged and processed food from your diet: I cannot emphasize the importance of eliminating refined carbohydrates, processed and pre-packaged food from your diet. These are simply empty calories that lead to a number of health problems including diabetes and obesity. 
Since all frozen meals, breakfast bars, canned fruits, biscuits, margarine, juices with added sugar, pasta, white rice, white bread, white flour, cookies, cakes, fried meals, etc. are all refined and processed - these should be eliminated from your diet. I understand that it is not realistically possible to eliminate these foods completely from your diet. However, I would still recommend that you consume them with caution - as sparingly as possible! 
Eat at regular intervals: It is important to understand that you only need to reduce 7% of your body weight in order to dramatically reduce the risk of diabetes. The best approach that works with diabetics is: 

Keeping track of what your eat and
Following a regular eating schedule

Here are some things that you can do to ensure that you have a regular eating schedule:
Never miss breakfast. For diabetics, it is the most important meal of the day. A good, healthy and nourishing breakfast is recommended for balancing your blood sugar levels and maintaining energy. 
Eat regular, small meals six times in a day. Frequent eating ensures that you keep a check on your portion size and also eliminate the risk of hypoglycemia. 
Work on your calorie intake. You must ensure that the amount of calories you consume in each meal as well as the calories that you consume each day are the same. This has a direct impact on maintenance of blood glucose levels. 
Eat slowly and stop when you are full. People who eat hastily almost always tend to overeat. 
When it comes to keeping track of what you eat, nothing beats a food journal. People who maintain a food journal shed weight twice as fast as people who don't. They can even maintain their slim self, solely through their food journal. 
Writing down what you eat helps your recognize whenever you cheat on your calories and helps you make mindful, sensible, and smart food choices. As you write down the how, why and what of eating, you may realize that with you, overeating is always a result of stress. So, may be that is an area that we need to work upon! 
 







CHAPTER SIX: FOODS TO CONSUME WHILE YOU ARE DIABETIC
 
The diabetic lifestyle involves a number of dietary changes. Foods are measured on a scale known as glycemic index. Glycemic index ranks food between 1 and100. This is based on the spike they produce in blood sugar. Foods with glycemic index 50 or lower are generally recommended for diabetics. 
Here are some foods that are recommended for diabetics:
APPLES: 
'An apple a day keeps the doctor away.' This saying is absolutely true as apples contain antioxidants that help in lowering LDL cholesterol levels. Regular consumption of apples lowers the risk of diabetes by 23% 
The high fiber in apples reduces the risk of many other diseases too!
Granny Smith apples are considered the best for diabetics owing to their low sugar content. 
 

CARROTS: 
Carrots are really low in carbohydrate content. In fact, because of the low glycemic index, five baby carrots are considered as 'free food' since the number of calories required to consume them is more than the number of calories in carrot itself. 
The high beta carotene content in carrots can help in lowering the risk of type 2 diabetes - even in individuals with genetic predispositions. 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 







BROCCOLI: 
The vitamin C content in broccoli is even more than that present in oranges. Vitamin C is very important in diabetics since it helps in strengthening the potentially damaged blood vessels. Vitamin C also helps in wound healing, which is a must! It also helps in eliminating sorbitol from the blood. Excess sorbitol can damage blood vessels. Adequate amount of vitamin C intake can diminish the chances of getting impacted by diabetes. The only downside is that this can impact the accuracy of blood glucose tests. 
 
 
 

 
 
 







AVOCADO: 
Acknowledged for its heart healthy unsaturated fat content, this food helps in improving your cholesterol levels and lowering the risk of heart diseases. Research suggests that consumption of unsaturated fats lowers the risk of diabetes by 25%. The Oleic acid found in avocados has been linked to causing a reduction in triglyceride levels. Avocados also help you process glucose more efficiently. 
 
 
 
 
 







Blueberries: 
Diabetics shy away from fruits due to the amount of sugar content in them. Blueberries, however, are rich in antioxidants which aid in preventing cancer as well as other lifestyle disorders including diabetes. Consumption of two or more servings of blueberries per day can lower the risk of developing diabetes even without considering risk factors such as age, weight, etc. The high fiber content in blueberries goes a long way in managing blood sugar spikes. 
 
 

 
 







ASPARAGUS: 
Asparagus contains an antioxidant termed as glutathione which reduces the impact of diabetes on the body. Research suggests that consumption of antioxidants is strongly linked to easing the impact of diabetes on the body. Antioxidants even promote the production of insulin. 
 
 

 







BEANS: 
Consumption of at least one cup legumes everyday increases the body's ability to control blood sugar and lower blood pressure. The high fiber content in beans diminishes the impact of many diseases including diabetes. People consuming beans and legumes demonstrate lower fasting blood glucose sugar level. 
 











FISH: 
In the previous chapter, you have read about the impact of omega 3 fatty acids on your body. Sea food contains adequate amounts of omega 3 fatty acids which not only lowers the risk of diabetes, but also diminishes the risk of heart problems, Alzheimer's, etc. Increased consumption of fish also increases insulin sensitivity. 
 
 

 







FLAXSEED: 
Flaxseed has been known to lower blood glucose, triglyceride and cholesterol levels. It is best digested when ground and works as a great additive for smoothies and salads. 
 
 

 







KALE: 
Kale is known as one of the major leafy vegetables that can significantly lower your risk of type 2 diabetes. Consumption of green leafy vegetables can diminish the risk of diabetes by 15%. The alpha-lipoic acid in kale is said to decrease neuropathy, lower blood glucose levels, increase insulin sensitivity and prevent oxidative stress damage. 
 
 

 
 
 







GARLIC: 
Research suggests that garlic possesses the ability to lower cholesterol and blood pressure. Diabetics generally notice positive results with consumption of garlic. It is known to elevate the level of insulin in the body. 
 

 







NUTS: 
Nuts are the ideal snack choice for diabetics and can help in controlling blood sugar levels. Research suggests that people who consume at least 2 oz. of nuts per day have lower blood sugar and blood cholesterol levels. Nuts contain omega 3 fatty acids, L-Arganine, fiber and vitamin E. 
 
 

 







QUINOA: 
The high fiber content of quinoa makes it a hit with diabetics. Although high in carbohydrates, quinoa retains its position in 'top foods for diabetics' primarily because of its high vitamin and fiber content. 
 

 







OATMEAL:
Oatmeal contains slow releasing carbohydrates along with a very high fiber content. The high content of soluble fiber in oats help in heart diseases, cholesterol and diabetes. 
 
 

 







RED ONIONS: 
Onions are high in antioxidants, folate, potassium, and flavonoids. They also have a high fiber content. Red onions have the highest amount of nutrients comparable to other varieties. Quercetin is an antioxidant found in red onions and known to significantly reduce the risk of diabetes. 
 

 
 







SOY: Soy has been known to reduce the risk of diabetes significantly. It is high in protein, low in saturated fat, free of cholesterol, and also a great source of zinc, iron, folate, potassium, alpha linoleic acid and of course, fiber!
 

 
 







SPINACH: 
Spinach is not doubt one of the best sources of iron. However, it is also loaded with other amazing minerals and vitamins. It is a low calorie food and research proves that individuals consuming spinach everyday lowered their diabetic risk by around 15%. 
 

 
 







RED PEPPERS: 
Red peppers are amongst the top four vegetables for antioxidants and are loaded with vitamin C, beta carotene, and vitamin A. A daily serving of red peppers can significantly reduce your chances of developing diabetes, heart diseases, and cancer. 
 

 
 







TOMATOES: 
Tomatoes are a rich source of lycopene, vitamin A, C and a number of antioxidants. Lycopene not only provides protection against a variety of cancers but also reduces the risk of heart diseases. Tomatoes are easily absorbed when cooked and can significantly aid in management of diabetes. 
 
 

 
 







TEA: 
Red tea is awesome for cholesterol reduction, black tea helps in curing sunburns while green tea supports weight management. Tea contains a high amount of flavonoid antioxidants that are known to diminish the risk of heart diseases. Tea lowers cholesterol levels, has known anti-cancer properties, and is effective in lowering cholesterol. Diabetics much avoid adding sugar to their tea. 
 
 

 
 







YOGURT: 
Yogurt serves as a healthy sweet treat for diabetics. The probiotics found in yogurt can significantly help in lowering your cholesterol levels. They work on the gut bacteria and therefore prevent your diabetes from worsening. Low fat options such as Greek Yogurt are the best since they are high in protein content and contain less added sugar. 
 
 

 







CHAPTER SEVEN: FOODS YOU SHOULD AVOID WHEN YOU ARE DIABETIC
 
Ideally, diabetics must stay away from any food that leads to a spike in blood sugar level. This includes foods with glycemic index of 50 or more. Most processed foods will fall into this category since they do not have the necessary fiber needed to balance their carbohydrate content. 
Here are some foods that you should definitely avoid:
COFFEE: But coffee has loads of antioxidants?
True! Coffee is loaded with so many antioxidants that it is often referred to as the health drink. However, the problem with commercial coffee drinks is that they are loaded with too much sugar and fat. In fact, an actual serving of coffee at Starbucks is equivalent to five servings! 
Now, it is possible to make your very own much friendlier version of coffee - however, a better option is to completely ditch coffee and opt for tea instead. 
NACHOS: Corn is a very high sugar vegetable and nachos chips are created from this vegetable. And as if this is not enough, they are loaded with salt and high in calories owing to their deep fried nature. The high calorie content of nachos converts a single serving into a full meal!
JUICES AND JUICE DRINKS: A number of juices contain added sugar in addition to the high sugar content from the fruit juice itself. The seeds and pulp is filtered out of the juice, leaving no fiber for healthy digestion. In fact, fruit drinks are considered as bad as sugary sodas since they load up a healthy diet with unnecessary sugar. In fact, a single serving of fruit juice is loaded with 31 gm of carbohydrates. 
ROLLS AND PASTRIES: The fresh smell of cinnamon, freshly glazed, topped with strawberries and nuts - pastries are difficult to resist, aren't they. The high carbohydrate content is a result of 100% white flour loaded with white sugar. 
But I make my pastries at home? 
Well, the home made versions are equally dangerous, even if your try and reduce the serving size in order to prevent sugar spikes. 
Cookies come in the same category and many cookies are nothing but empty carbohydrate and fats. Home baked cookies can be made healthier using recipes with whole grains and high fiber, however, it must always be remembered that these are also not too great for a diabetic. You may have a home baked cookie occasionally in order to satisfy your sweet tooth. 
PROCESSED MEATS: You have probably always looked at your roasted turkey as the best food choice ever. It is however important to understand that the processed packaged version is loaded with extra salt and sugar in order to improve the taste. Try and cut your own meat in order to improve the taste and reduce the sugar and salt that you are consuming. 
STORE BOUGHT SMOOTHIES: Juices and smoothies are the latest health fad. These colorful drinks are however loaded with sugar and other additives that diminish the power of vitamins in your smoothie. Moreover, the market versions are served in extra-large packings which are typically five times the size of an actual serving. 
While a homemade smoothie can help you meet around 90% of your nutritional requirements, the store bought versions can run havoc on your health by causing a 200% spike in carbohydrate levels. 
CHINESE FOODS: Most Chinese foods are cooked by frying in saturated fat and are loaded with high sugar sauces. The carbohydrate filled white rice is nothing but empty calories. Brown rice is considered as a healthy alternative, however, is still laden with carbohydrates. If you must eat Chinese, try and consume brown rice - as the fiber content in brown rice at least tries to compensate for the carbohydrate content. Also, try and cook your food at home using diabetic friendly sugar free sauces. 
HAMBURGERS: Those cheese laden burgers that you get at Mc Donald's taste heavenly, but are loaded with carbohydrates, and added sodium, cholesterol and sugar. Plus, the size of the burger is around four to five times the recommended size which is enough to lead to a major blood sugar spike. 
But I love my burgers! 
Well, if you must have burgers, try to create your burger at home with freshly ground meat - trust me, it is not only going to be much healthier, but also super tastier. 
BREAD AND PIZZA: The crust of your store bought pizza is loaded with refined flour, excess sugar, unwanted and unhealthy sodium and saturated fats. The meat used is processed using sugar and sodium along with other unhealthy additives. A full pizza can be as high as 900 calories. Top it with a few extras and you know you have exhausted more than half of your calorie requirement for the day!
Pastas and commercial breads are equally bad owing to their high glycemic index. Choose a whole wheat option that may temper the carbohydrate content. However, it will still lead to blood sugar spikes and not fill you up for long. 
 







CHAPTER 8: EXERCISES FOR CONTROLLING YOUR DIABETES
 
Staying active will enable a person cope up with their diabetes. Individuals with diabetes must exercise regularly as this can regulate your blood sugar level as well as diminish the risk of cardiovascular diseases. 
Exercise helps in regulating the blood sugar levels because working muscles utilize more glucose than resting muscles. Muscle movement leads to high sugar utilization by the working muscles, leading to lower blood sugar level. 
Exercise also strengthens the muscles, enables you to maintain a healthy weight and sharpens your athletic skills. It elevates your immunity and protects you against heart problems, stroke, diabetes and cancer. 
So, what would count as regular exercise? 
I would say performing aerobic activities for thirty minutes every day at moderate level and exercising at a level that induces sweating and elevates your heart rate moderately can be termed as 'regular exercise.'
Aerobic activities include brisk walking, biking, swimming, dancing, badminton, tennis, etc. 
House chores, although considered as physical activity is not too demanding and therefore does not count as exercise. 
Let us look at this in a little more detail:
DIABETIC FITNESS STEP ONE: Incorporate physical activity on your daily routine. You must replace some of the things that you do every day and convert them into physical activities. How about parking a little far, so that you have to walk an extra mile every day? If you are on a sedentary, computer job that entails sitting for eight hours in a day - try and go out for regular brisk walks after lunch. Incorporate stretching at your desk every hour or so. Change your sitting position frequently - this helps the blood to flow properly. 
DIABETIC FITNESS STEP TWO: Incorporate thirty minutes of aerobic exercises every day. We have discussed the kind of aerobic activities diabetics can perform. If your hectic schedule does not allow a straight thirty minute exercise, incorporate three intervals of ten minutes each. Try and be creative with your exercise so that it never bores you. Include fun activities in your workout to make it super exciting. 
Need more motivation? Get an exercise buddy. Ask a friend to accompany you every day and post your status on Facebook. This helps in creating accountability too. 
DIABETIC FITNESS TIP THREE: Incorporate strength training in your daily workout regime. Ideally, this should be done a few days after you begin your aerobic workout. 
Strength training enables you get lean muscles along with strong and healthy bones. It is especially recommended for individuals impacted with type 2 diabetes since muscles use most of the glucose. This helps in controlling the blood sugar levels. 
DIABETIC FITNESS TIP FOUR: Incorporate flexibility training to improve the functionality of your muscles and joints. Stretch before and after exercise in order to relax your muscles and prevent muscle soreness. 
DIABETIC FITNESS TIP FIVE: Try and hit the magic number of 10,000 steps a day. If possible, invest in a pedometer to keep you motivated and walk at least 10,000 steps in a day. Do not start 10,000 steps all at once though - begin slowly but aim to achieve the target steps within a few days. Most important - never give up. 10,000 seems a lot initially, but believe me when you begin doing this, it will seem super easy. I started at 2,400 steps in a day and now average at 13,700 steps per day. 
 







CHAPTER 9: STRESS RELIEF FOR DIABETES
 
Research proves that stressful experiences aggravate diabetes. In fact, stressors such as workplace stress and family losses are often linked to triggering the onset of diabetes. One of the major impacts of your stress hormones - epinephrine and cortisol is elevation in the blood sugar levels. 
Studies also suggest that non diabetic individuals have compensatory measures to keep stress under control. This is lacking in diabetic individuals. 
The best way therefore to control your blood sugar levels is through impactful stress management and effective coping mechanisms. 
But the greater you think about eliminating stress, the closer it comes towards you, isn't it? 
Then, what do we mean by effective coping mechanism? Should we not try to eradicate stress from our lives? 
Alright, let's face it! You can never achieve a stress free life, no matter how hard you may want to try. All you can do is to convert the perceived 'bad stress' into your friend or 'good stress'. Therefore, the best logical action would be to acknowledge the presence of stress in your life, make stress your friend and learn to cope with your existing stress - in order to convert it into good stress that enables you to perform better and live healthier.  All it calls for you to do is to take charge of your thoughts, emotions, actions, life! 
Here are some simple strategies that will empower you to deal with stress without converting it into your enemy:
Make tiny but impactful changes in your physical environment:
A badly organized working or living space can lead to major negative stress. On the contrary, a pleasantly organized environment enables you to reduce stress and enhances your productivity levels. Here are some points that can help you create a pleasant non-stressful physical space:

Appropriate lighting: Bad lighting can lead to an elevated fatigue level in addition to causing eye strain. Fluorescent lighting is also exhausting at times. Understanding that the quality of light is an important factor in eradicating stress from your physical environment can enable you to manage it better. Natural light leads to release of happy chemicals in the body - these leads to better emotional health. Artificial light does not have the same impact as sunlight. As a coping strategy, you can choose to work near a window or maybe use full spectrum bulbs in order to improve the quality of light and as a consequence, your working environment. 
Cleanliness, tidiness, decoration: A cluttered environment generally leads to unnecessary stress. Clutter in your environment leads to clutter in your mind which necessarily means more stress. A clean, organized workplace helps in maintaining a safe distance from your number one enemy - stress!
Noise: A high level of noise not only hampers your ability to concentrate; it also leads to tension, irritability and headaches.  You may want to request your co-workers to tone down their volume or even get into a noise proof conference room for working. 
Overload of technology: Technology was meant to make your life simpler, and it has suddenly become one of the major factors contributing to your stress, correct? You are bombarded with interruptions from Facebook, Internet, e-mail and IMs. How about consciously turning off all these distractions and focusing on the task at hand? You may want to set up specific time during the day to check your Facebook or email. An hour in the morning and then an hour in the evening can work just fine. 
Your space to relax: Almost everybody requires a space to unwind, even if this is just for a few minutes. Choose a place where you can just close your eyes and meditate. You may want to go out for a nature walk or pursue your favourite hobby. In fact, lunch outside your office may also work well sometimes.

 







Making changes in your mental environment: 
In order to convert manage stress better, it is important to take a closer look at your mental environment and figure out what changes you can make so that this good stress empowers you to lead a life full of happiness and good health. The first secret to doing this is by identifying your sources of stress and avoiding them. Do you understand what stresses you out? And do you have a mitigation strategy in place? One of the major causes of stress in your life could be your inability to say 'no' and your will to please everyone. It is extremely important to create boundaries for yourself and then learn to stick to them. Curb the time with individuals who you feel stress you out. 
Does watching that tennis match make you anxious? You won't miss it if you don't watch it. Just try skipping it once to notice the difference it makes to your life! Hate grocery shopping because of the traffic you need to encounter? Try ordering groceries online next time. 
Let us now look at the second secret to managing your mental environment. Try and modify the situation.You know what causes you stress, correct? 
All you need to do now is to figure out how to change this situation so that it does not impact you any further. This may involve changes in the manner in which you communicate and operate every day. You may even want to express your feelings and reach out for support. On the other hand, you must also be available for other people experiencing stress.  Taking stock of your time in order to evaluate what works well for you is the best stress management strategy!
What if you cannot modify the situation?Well, think about positively adapting to the situation in that case. 
Here is an example: Hate traffic jams? Use this as an opportunity to listen to your favorite radio station or enjoy some alone time. In case you witness a stressful event, think about how this event can impact your life positively. In fact, take some time to reflect if this event will really be important in the long run. Concentrate on things that bring you joy and contentment. Count your unseen blessings. Always see good things about yourself. Eliminate negative words such as 'should', 'never', 'must' etc. from your dictionary. These will only shift your focus to things that you should or should not have done. Focus on what you have done that is making such a profound impact on you and the people around you. Focus on the present; focus on NOW! 
Finally, keep some time for yourself. Nurture yourself. Spend time with nature, get a relaxing massage, take a long bubble bath, talk to a friend, write in your journal or do whatever feels good to you! Just set aside some time for relaxation and fun. 
Physical therapy to beat stress
Well, we are not going to go into detail here - because we understand the disease fighting, anti-diabetic and overall health benefits of exercise. Exercise can also enhance your mental fitness levels and diminish overall stress. Research proves that physical therapy reduces fatigue, elevates concentration, improves your overall cognitive ability and diminishes stress. 
Nutrition and stress
Choosing to make stress your friend involves making certain lifestyle and diet changes. While there are foods that help in managing stress, there are others that contribute to negative stress. Choosing the right kind of foods can play a big role in your stress management strategy. You should avoid foods with high glycemic index, alcohol and unrefined sugars. Remember, we spoke about all these foods to be avoided when we discussed the diabetic dietary principles? 
Foods containing abundant quantities of zinc, vitamin B12, magnesium and antioxidants are effective in stress management. Herbal supplements such as passion flower and kava also provide substantial relaxation. 
We shall talk about top seven herbs to manage your diabetes in my bonus book. These herbs can also help you manage stress better. 
 







CHAPTER 10: SUPPLEMENTS TO HELP YOUR DIABETES
 
Research proves that sensible supplementation can help in managing insulin resistance. 
Before going any further, let us talk about the manner in which our ancestors ate food. The hunter gatherers had to run around naked (ensuring they got enough vitamin D from the sun) in search of food. They gathered omega-3 fatty acids, vitamins, minerals and phytonutrients and ate a diverse variety every day. 
The traditional American diet now is high on sugar and processed food. In fact, most of us tend to eat the same kind of food every single day. Therefore, it is important to supplement whatever is lacking so that your nutritional requirements are met and you are able to put up a brave fight against diabetes. 
A MULTIVITAMIN SUPPLEMENT: Metformin, a medicine used to treat diabetes often interferes with the absorption of vitamin B12. Therefore, a little extra supplementation is never a bad idea. Today, most people are deficient in vitamin D. Therefore, supplementation with vitamin D also becomes a necessity. 
The best strategy is to take a multivitamin every day and vitamin D supplement, once every week for three weeks. Discontinue the vitamin D for two weeks and then again consume for three weeks - once every week. 
MAGNESIUM: Magnesium plays an important role in the regulation of blood sugar. A high dietary magnesium consumption is linked to lower fasting insulin concentration and hence, a reduced risk of developing diabetes. It must also be understood that excess magnesium supplementation can lead to abdominal cramps and pains. Therefore, try and get all your magnesium from natural sources such as avocados, spinach, artichokes, etc. If you do need supplementation, limit it to 350 mg. per day. 
VITAMIN D: Some physicians suggest vitamin D deficiency as the root cause of development of insulin resistance and diabetes. Food sources of vitamin D include fish, cheese, egg yolks, and oysters. Weekly vitamin D supplementation is recommended if you are not adequately exposed to sunlight. 
OMEGA-3 FATTY ACIDS: We have discussed the importance of omega 3 fatty acids in the previous chapters. If you are not consuming enough omega-3 fatty acids through food, choose supplementation using a well-known brand that can provide at least 600 mg or more of total omega 3s.
 
As a disease, diabetes is not at all hard to manage. All that is required is adequate nutrition, addressing stress factors, incorporating exercise and an impactful supplementation strategy. 
It is not a life sentence and proper medication, lifestyle and nutritional choices can help you live well with the disease. 
 
I wish you all the best and hope this book has helped you and if you would like to know about some herbs that can help your diabetes see below. 
David
 
Read 'seven herbs to prevent and control your diabetes' 
by clicking below
HERE















