

















Doing Research in the Business World
























Doing Research in the Business World


David E Gray





















SAGE Publications Ltd
1 Oliver's Yard
55 City Road
London EC1Y 1SP


SAGE Publications Inc.
2455 Teller Road
Thousand Oaks, California 91320


SAGE Publications India Pvt Ltd
B 1/I 1 Mohan Cooperative Industrial Area
Mathura Road
New Delhi 110 044


SAGE Publications Asia-Pacific Pte Ltd
3 Church Street
#10-04 Samsung Hub
Singapore 049483



© David E Gray 2017
First published 2017
Apart from any fair dealing for the purposes of research or
                        private study, or criticism or review, as permitted under the Copyright,
                        Designs and Patents Act, 1988, this publication may be reproduced, stored or
                        transmitted in any form, or by any means, only with the prior permission in
                        writing of the publishers, or in the case of reprographic reproduction, in
                        accordance with the terms of licences issued by the Copyright Licensing
                        Agency.Enquiries concerning reproduction outside those terms should be sent
                        to the publishers.
All material on the accompanying website can be printed off
                        and photocopied by the purchaser/user of the book. The web material itself
                        may not be reproduced in its entirety for use by others without prior
                        written permission from SAGE. The web material may not be distributed or
                        sold separately from the book without the prior written permission of SAGE.
                        Should anyone wish to use the materials from the website for conference
                        purposes, they would require separate permission from us. All material is
                        © David Gray, 2017
This book may contain links to both internal and external
                        websites. All links included were active at the time the book was published.
                        SAGE does not operate these external websites and does not necessarily
                        endorse the views expressed within them. SAGE cannot take responsibility for
                        the changing content or nature of linked sites, as these sites are outside
                        of our control and subject to change without our knowledge. If you do find
                        an inactive link to an external website, please try to locate that website
                        by using a search engine. SAGE will endeavour to update inactive or broken
                        links when possible.



Library of Congress Control Number: 2016935137


British Library Cataloguing in Publication data

A catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library
ISBN 978-1-4739-1567-1
ISBN 978-1-4739-1568-8 (pbk)
ISBN 978-1-4739-3843-4 (pbk & interactive ebk) (IEB)


Editor: Jai Seaman
Development editor: Gemma Shields
Editorial assistant: Alysha Owen
Production editor: Tom Bedford
Copyeditor: Jill Birch
Proofreader: Elaine Leek
Indexer: David Rudeforth
Marketing manager: Alison Borg
Cover design: Shaun Mercier
Typeset by: C&M Digitals (P) Ltd, Chennai, India
Printed in the UK



















Contents


                            About the Author
                        


                            Acknowledgements
                        


                            Publisher's Acknowledgements
                        


                            How to Use the Companion Website
                        

1 Introduction



Part A:

Principles and Planning for Research


2 Theoretical Perspectives and
                                    Research Methodologies in Business

3 Selecting and Planning Business
                                    Research Proposals and Projects

4 Business Research Ethics

5 Searching, Critically Reviewing and
                                    Using the Literature in Business




Part B:

Research Methodology


6 Business Research Design:
                                    Quantitative Methods

7 Business Research Design:
                                    Qualitative Methods

8 Business Research Design: Mixed
                                    Methods

9 Sampling Strategies in Business

10 Designing Descriptive and
                                    Analytical Surveys for Business

11 Designing Case Studies for
                                    Business

12 Designing Evaluations in
                                    Business

13 Action Research and Change in
                                    Business




Part C:

Data Collection Methods


14 Questionnaires

15 Interviewing

16 Non-participant Observation

17 Ethnography and Participant
                                    Observation

18 Focus Groups

19 Unobtrusive Measures

20 Visual Methods

21 Secondary Data Analysis




Part D:

Analysis and Report Writing


22 Getting Started with SPSS

23 Analysing and Presenting
                                    Quantitative Data

24 Getting Started with NVivo

25 Analysing and Presenting
                                    Qualitative Data

26 Writing up the Research in a
                                    Business Report

27 Preparing for Business
                                    Presentations and for Vivas



                            Glossary
                        


                            References
                        


                            Index
                        












About the Author






David Gray
 is Professor of Leadership and Organizational
                        Behaviour at the University of Greenwich. His research interests, and
                        publication record, include research methods, management learning
                        (particularly coaching and mentoring), professional identity, action
                        learning, reflective learning, management learning in SMEs and the factors
                        that contribute to SME success. He has published books (Doing Research in
                            the Real World (2014), 3rd edition) and articles on research
                        methods, organizational learning, and coaching and mentoring. David has led
                        a number of EU-funded research programmes including one examining the impact
                        of coaching on the resilience of unemployed managers in their job-searching
                        behaviours and another on how action learning can sustain unemployed
                        managers in starting their own business. He has recently completed a global
                        survey into the professional identity of coaches. When not leading research
                        projects he tries to play golf.












Acknowledgements
I would like to thank the team at Sage for suggesting that I write this book and
                    particularly Jai Seaman, Gemma Shields and Tom Bedford for their support,
                    encouragement and guidance during the writing and production process. Thanks
                    also go to the anonymous reviewers who evaluated many of the chapters and who
                    gave me detailed and constructive feedback.

David E Gray
Business School
University of Greenwich
November 2016












Publisher's Acknowledgements
The Publishers would like to thank the following individuals for their valuable
                    feedback and suggestions to help shape this book and its online resources:
Brian Critchley, Senior Lecturer, Guildhall Faculty of Business and Law,
                            London Metropolitan UniversityDr Erhard K. Valentin, Professor Emeritus, John B. Goddard School of
                            Business and Economics, Weber State University, Utah, USACatherine Groves, Senior Lecturer, Liverpool Business School, Liverpool
                            John Moores UniversityStephanie Chamberlain, Sheffield Business School, Sheffield Hallam
                            UniversityDr Wim Vandekerckhove, Department of Human Resources and Organisational
                            Behaviour, University of Greenwich Business SchoolHelen Shiels, Lecturer in Management, Department of International
                            Business, Ulster UniversityDr Diane Holt, Essex Business School, University of EssexAlfred Akakpo, Management and Leadership Department, Faculty of Business
                            and Law, Coventry UniversityDr Lin Yan, Senior Lecturer, Lord Ashcroft International Business
                            School, Anglia Ruskin University
We are grateful to everyone who granted us permission to reproduce copyrighted
                    material in this book. Every effort has been made to trace the copyright holders
                    and we apologise for any unintentional omissions. We would be pleased to insert
                    the appropriate acknowledgement in any subsequent edition of this publication or
                    at reprint stage.











How to Use the Companion Website



Doing Research in the Business World is supported by a wealth of online
                    resources for both students and lecturers to aid study and support teaching,
                    which are available at https://study.sagepub.com/grayresearchbusiness

For students
Watch author-selected videos to give you deeper insight into
                                research in the real business world and to see how key skills are
                                applied in practice. These videos provide important context to
                                foster understanding and facilitate learning.Watch and learn! New author videos featuring discussions of
                                key concepts and David Gray's top tips for conducting
                                effective research. These short, focused videos showcase best
                                practice in business research and will help prepare you for your own
                                research project and future career.Interactive multiple choice questions allow you to test your
                                knowledge and give you feedback to help build core research
                                skills.Read more widely! A selection of free SAGE content
                                including journal articles, book chapters, encyclopaedia entries and
                                real world examples help deepen your knowledge and reinforce your
                                learning of key topics and best practice. An ideal place to start
                                for literature reviews and research design.Weblinks direct you to relevant resources to broaden your
                                understanding of chapter topics and expand your knowledge by linking
                                to international business organizations and real business output.Checklists supporting selected chapters to help guide you
                                through a specific research process such as running a focus group or
                                conducting interviews.Practice datasets provide meaningful information to help you
                                increase your statistical literacy and to develop your data analytic
                                skills. Play around with real data in IBM SPSS Statistics and put
                                your statistics knowledge into practice.A flashcard glossary, which features terms from the book;
                                this is an ideal tool to help you get to grips with key research
                                terms and revise for exams.


Instructor resources
PowerPoint slides featuring figures and tables from the book,
                                which can be downloaded and customized for use in your own
                                presentations.












1 Introduction

Chapter Introduction

Chapter Outline
Research in the business worldThe nature of theoriesAn overview of the research processThe organization of the bookHow to use this book


Keywords
MethodologyTheoryBasic researchApplied researchResearch topicsResearch process



Icon Key







Author Video







Chapter Objectives
After reading this chapter you will be able to:
Describe why research in the business world is of increasing
                                    importance.Explain the nature of theories.Outline the stages in the research process.Use this book effectively by making use of its features such as
                                    Activities and Top Tips.Use this book to build up your Employability Skills.



This book is designed to introduce you to some of the essential
                        methodologies, approaches and tools for business research. In doing so, we
                        will explore some of the philosophies and theoretical perspectives behind
                        the many different ways of conducting research, as well as providing
                        practical examples and guidance as to how research should be planned and
                        implemented. Later in this chapter we will look at the structure of the
                        book, but first we need to examine the nature of the research process and
                        why research is being seen as increasingly important in a growing number of
                        businesses, organizations, communities and contexts.
The term 'globalization' is often used to describe a world that
                        is becoming increasingly integrated and interdependent and where large,
                        multinational corporations dominate. Within this globalized world, change in
                        business and working environments has become rapid and pervasive.
                        Organizations have adapted to this uncertainty in a number of ways. One
                        approach has been to understand (often through research) and develop
                        relationships with both markets and supply chains. Most forward-looking
                        organizations have also recognized the need for a multi-skilled and
                        occupationally agile workforce. It has also required that organizations
                        understand what motivates their workforce and how people embrace change. All
                        this has had an enormous impact on the way organizations operate and
                        interact with the business world, and how they communicate and work. Small
                        and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) have also had to modernize their
                        organizational practices and to understand their working environment, and,
                        above all, their markets. Furthermore, governments and other sponsors of
                        research, have shown a desire to see 'value for money' when
                        funding research projects, based, at least in part, on projects providing
                        evidence of sound and robust research methodologies.



Globalization


Faced with a more competitive, dynamic and uncertain world, knowledge of
                        research methods is important because it helps people in
                        organizations to understand, predict and control their internal and external
                        environments (Sekaran and Bougie, 2013). It also means that those involved
                        in commissioning or sponsoring organizational research are better placed to
                        understand and manage the work of researchers and to objectively evaluate
                        and interpret the outcomes of research. Hence, it becomes possible to
                        calculate the potential risks and benefits in implementing research
                        projects.
Research is also of value in itself. Completing a research project (such as a
                        dissertation or thesis) can provide you with lifelong skills, including
                        Employability Skills (writing research proposals, planning the research,
                        designing data gathering instruments, collecting data and abiding by a code
                        of research ethics, to name but a few). Employability Skills include sets of
                        achievements, knowledge and personal attributes that make individuals more
                        likely to gain employment and to be
                        successful in their chosen occupations (Knight and Yorke, 2002). As we
                        discuss below, Employability Skills are, in part, built up through
                        developing research skills and are a feature of this book. But what do we
                        mean by the term 'research'? Let's look at this in more
                        detail.


Research In The Business World
Business research has been defined as: 'the systematic and objective
                        process of collecting, recording, analysing and interpreting data for aid in
                        solving managerial problems' (Wilson, 2014: 3). Hence, research is
                        often about how (process) to solve real problems (content) (Gill and
                        Johnson, 2002). This may have a very practical focus (applied research),
                        with an emphasis on achieving measurable outputs that are specific to a
                        particular business or organization. The results of such research may be of
                        significance to a specific context, but difficult to generalize elsewhere.
                        On the other hand, research may also be concerned with clarifying,
                        validating or building a theory (basic research). Its importance to society
                        or to organizations may be determined by the extent to which this theory is
                        translatable into a specific context. However, most organizations will only
                        see research as valid if it is seen to lead to practical outcomes
                        (Easterby-Smith et al., 2002). Then there are forms of research comprising
                        collaboration between the researcher and professional practitioners (often
                        an element of action research). Table 1.1
                        provides a summary illustrating a continuum between basic and applied
                        research.



Using Research in the Business World





Business Research Introduction


Business research brings with it many challenges, with the last 20 years
                        seeing significant upheavals in the business and economic environment. Apart
                        from economic competition (and downturns), businesses have had to cope with
                        changes in government social and economic policy, the explosive growth of
                        new technology (including e-commerce) and major innovations in global
                        communication. One result has been that managers have to develop new skills
                        and knowledge and make decisions that impact not just on those inside the
                        businesses, but with a broad range of partners, external stakeholders and
                        networks. To survive and thrive in such environments, businesses need to
                        have access to high-quality, research-driven information on which to base
                        their decisions. In conducting this research, managers and
                        student-researchers can draw upon broad fields of inquiry such as business
                        theory, economics, sociology, psychology, anthropology, philosophy, and
                        communication. This often means having to adopt an inter-disciplinary
                        approach, incorporating ideas and approaches from a diverse range of subject
                        backgrounds. Secondly, research in the business world means the researcher
                        has to gain access to social settings or business environments where key
                        research sponsors, gatekeepers or stakeholders may have their own agendas
                        that are not necessarily the same as those of the researcher. Thirdly,
                        research may be influenced by the fact that research sponsors such as
                        governments or businesses are working in a world of competition, market
                        influences and financial constraints. Research projects may have to be
                        modified or cancelled. Research sponsors may criticize what they read in
                        research reports, especially when these reveal inadequacies or
                        inefficiencies in the businesses they manage. The business world, of course,
                        contains a myriad of subjects that lend themselves to research. Table 1.2 provides just a general 'feel' for the
                        kinds of areas that this book will explore. You will, of course, be thinking
                        about or developing a research topic of your own.


Source: Adapted from Saunders, Lewis and
                            Thornhill, Research Methods for Business Students, 6th edn.
                            Reprinted by permission of Pearson Education Ltd © 2012




Basic vs. Applied Research


But how do we go about addressing these
                        kinds of research areas? One way to solve any problem in the business world
                        is to do so systematically. While Figure 1.1
                        presents a very simplified version of such an approach (which will be
                        modified in later chapters), it does at least offer a starting point. Gill
                        and Johnson (2002) rightly caution that the wise researcher is one who gives
                        equal attention to each of these phases. Many naïve researchers are
                        tempted to rush into the 'collect information' stage without
                        first very clearly defining the research topic, and its objectives. The
                        results of this fuzziness only become transparent later on, with the effect
                        that the researcher has to cycle back to an earlier stage in the research
                        process, or to start again.
Figure 1.1 shows that it is possible, in principle, to move from
                        the identification of the research focus right through to the presentation
                        of the findings in a neat sequence of steps. This, however, is an idealized
                        model and is not necessarily the norm. The complexities of researching in
                        the business world mean that the researcher may often have to revisit
                        previous stages in the research process. For example, at the analysis stage
                        it might emerge that the collection of important data has been
                        overlooked. New plans will have to be formulated and the data collected
                        before the researcher is able to return to the analysis and presentation of
                        the findings. Indeed, as we shall see in later chapters, it is also valid
                        for the researcher to enter 'the field' to gather data, with
                        only the most general of notions of what she/he is looking for, and for the
                        data to help in the generation of concepts and theories.



Figure 1.1 Overview of
                            the (simplified) research processSource: Adapted from Gill and Johnson,
                            2002
Figure 1.1 implies that the research process is a highly practical
                        one. You identify a problem, decide on how to tackle it, collect data (which
                        often involves discussions with other people), analyse and present findings
                        and take action. But research, as was mentioned above, is more than a mere
                        pragmatic activity; behind it lies the foundations of academic theories that
                        have emerged through the process of scientific enquiry and investigation
                        over many decades and even centuries. To theories we now turn.


The Nature Of Theories



What is a Theory


A theory has been defined as:

A set of interrelated constructs (concepts), definitions, and
                            propositions that present a systematic view of phenomena by specifying
                            relations among variables, with the purpose of explaining and predicting
                            phenomena. (Kerlinger and Lee, 2000: 9)

One might, for example, have a theory of business failure in a business
                        start-up company such as a new online retailer for folding bicycles. The
                        factors that might explain this could be: poor Web design, faults in product
                        design, insufficient sales staff training, or a lack of investment. The
                        actual failure of the business has to be explained by examining and
                        understanding the interrelationship between these factors. Such
                        understanding may take the form of a theory that is predictive or
                        explanatory in nature. Indeed, a theory is only worthy of the term if it has
                        some predictive qualities. As we shall see, if a theory is no longer
                        predictive, a crisis ensues and the theory will, over time, be challenged
                        and replaced by a new one.
There is no reason, however, to denigrate research activity that is not
                        theory-orientated. In research it may be quite valid to undertake an
                        investigation that merely seeks to find the immediate goal of a relationship between two variables
                        (a characteristic that is measurable such as income, attitude, action,
                        policy, etc.). Taking our online bicycle retailer above, the variables might
                        be profit levels and management skills (related to Web design, product
                        design, etc.).
But as Kerlinger and Lee (2000) point out, the most satisfying and usable
                        relationships are those that can be generalized, that is, applied
                        from the specific instance of the research findings to many phenomena and to
                        many people. This is the nature of theory.

Activity 1.1
Examine each of the following statements and decide whether you agree
                            with them. A theory:
Is an accumulated body of knowledge, written by acknowledged
                                    experts.Informs 'state-of-the-art' concepts and
                                    innovations.Is a body of work where inconsequential or misleading ideas can
                                    be filtered out.Represents knowledge that should be viewed critically and
                                    rejected when incompatible with practice.Adds interest and intellectual stimulation to a project.Acts as a model against which 'live' business
                                    processes can be evaluated.Guides the execution of research methodology.
Suggested answers are provided at the end of the chapter.

Source: Adapted from Gill and Johnson, 2002




An Overview Of The Research Process
We saw above that research often comprises an investigation into the
                        relationship between two (or more) variables. However, before we undertake a
                        research study, we need to know more about these variables and what studies,
                        if any, have been conducted into their relationship. Hence, we undertake a
                            literature review (see Figure 1.1). In
                        doing this, we will be interested in the literature on the dependent
                        variable (the variable that forms the focus of the research) and the
                        independent variable (the variable that acts on or predicts the dependent
                        variable). So, for example, we might investigate consumer attitudes to
                        healthy eating (the dependent variable) following a firm's marketing
                        campaign (independent variable). But there is a third source of literature
                        we also need to investigate and that is where studies have already been
                        completed that have explored the relationships between healthy eating and
                        campaigns designed to improve eating patterns (see dependent/independent
                        variable in Figure 1.2). As we will see when looking
                        at inductive and qualitative methods, this sequential, literature-first
                        approach, is not always followed, but it is typical of many studies.



Dependent vs. Independent Variables


The literature review has another important purpose. It helps to define the
                        focus and scope of the research project about to be undertaken. Above all,
                        it leads to one or more research questions which give direction and
                        frame the study. As we will see later, research questions, providing they
                        are written accurately and concisely, provide an essential bridge between
                        the literature review (the subject) and methodology (how the subject is
                        going to be investigated and researched). It is difficult to exaggerate how
                        important it is to formulate a set of clear research questions.
Figure 1.2 An overview
                            of the typical research process


The Organization Of The Book
The book is divided into four parts. Part A prepares
                        the way by looking at the underpinning philosophy of research and the
                        selection of suitable research topics. In Chapter 2 the
                        nature and significance of theory is justified and the epistemological
                        (philosophical) basis of theory explored. The chapter also describes how
                        different epistemological perspectives provide the basis for research
                        methodologies like experimental research, surveys, grounded
                            theory and action research, all of which are discussed in detail in
                        later chapters. If you have little or no previous experience of philosophy
                        you may find this chapter rather daunting, but you are encouraged to tackle
                        it, as it will help you to understand the approaches taken in later
                        chapters.
Having provided an overarching view of research philosophy, methodologies and
                        methods, Chapter 3 gets down to the practical
                        issue of selecting and planning a research project. Advice is offered on how
                        to identify research topics that meet your personal needs and experience and
                        how to write a successful research proposal.
Chapter 4 on ethics in research is important given the fact
                        that students and professional researchers now usually have to abide by the
                        ethical frameworks devised by their educational institutions or professional
                        associations - often referred to as Institutional Review Boards. This
                        chapter shows you how to construct research designs that follow these
                        important principles. Note that the discussion of ethics is not confined to
                        this chapter but appears often throughout the book.
Chapter 5 looks at some of the many ways in which you can begin to
                        locate, search and use the literature on your chosen subject. It shows you
                        how to plan your search, store data and undertake a critical review of your
                        literature sources.
Part B deals with research methodology, beginning with quantitative
                        research designs, including experimental and quasi-experimental
                            design (Chapter 6). This is an appropriate
                        place to begin our discussion of methodology since this is one of the oldest
                        and, in a sense, the classical approach to research design. The chapter not
                        only describes and justifies alternative experimental designs, but
                        introduces concepts (such as validity and reliability) that are appropriate for, or at least
                        addressed by, many other research methodologies. Chapter 7
                        provides a description of various qualitative designs, while Chapter 8 takes you a step further by introducing the notion of
                        combining quantitative and qualitative designs to produce a mixed methods
                        approach. Mixed methods can help you by combining some of the best elements
                        of quantitative and qualitative approaches. Of course, none of these
                        approaches will work if the sampling design is not right. A complete chapter
                            (Chapter 9) is devoted to this key
                        theme.
In Chapter 10 we take another, and increasingly popular, research
                        methodology, surveys, and describe different types of survey and the process
                        of survey design. A distinction is made between self-administered and
                        interview-administered surveys and the merits of each are discussed. Partly
                        because of their scale, surveys can be prone to sources of error such as
                        sampling error, data collection error and interviewer error. Some practical
                        advice is provided on how to cope with these.
Another widely used research methodology is the case study (Chapter 11). For many years, the case study approach has been
                        wrongfully denigrated by some researchers as lacking in rigour, partly
                        because it is often based upon a small number of cases. However, as this
                        chapter shows, case studies, if carefully planned, can provide a powerful
                        means of exploring situations where there is uncertainty or ambiguity about
                        phenomena or events.
While some research methodologies attempt to uncover new knowledge,
                            evaluation (Chapter 12) involves exploring how
                        existing knowledge is used to inform and guide practical action. Hence,
                        evaluation might be used to gauge whether a company training programme has
                        been successful. But evaluation can also be used to report on much larger
                        units of analysis such as national policies or government-sponsored
                        intervention programmes.
Chapter 13 completes Part B by
                        exploring the purposes and methods behind action research. In this chapter
                        and, indeed, throughout the book, we look at real business issues and
                        problems. Action research is about addressing and, in some cases, solving
                        these problems. The key focus is not research for the sake of expanding
                        knowledge but on achieving change (often in a business or community
                        setting).
Of course, whichever research methodology (or combination of methodologies)
                        we use, none can be successful without the use of sound and reliable data
                        collection tools (Part C). We start here with a look at,
                        perhaps, one of the most commonly used research instruments, the
                        questionnaire (Chapter 14). This chapter shows how
                        designing valid and reliable questionnaires requires adherence to a large
                        number of design considerations that range from the writing of individual
                        questions to the layout of the questionnaire itself.
Questionnaires are often used as the data gathering instrument for structured
                        or semi-structured interviews. But interviews (Chapter 15)
                        also necessitate that the researcher acquires a wide range of other skills
                        associated with actually conducting the interview. This chapter, then,
                        provides some practical advice on planning and conducting a variety of
                        interview approaches.
But how do we know that interviewees tell the truth? It may be that they do
                        not know the answer to a question or that they want to hide something from
                        us. Another data gathering method, then, is observation (Chapters 16
                        and 17). Chapter 16
                        discusses non-participant observation, while Chapter 17
                        looks at observation through participant observation, and particularly
                        through ethnographic approaches. Ethnography is a research method that seeks
                        to understand cultural phenomena that reflect the knowledge and meanings
                        that guide the life of cultural groups within their own environment. In both
                        participant and non-participant observation, the observation may be
                        conducted overtly, where the subjects of the research know that they are
                        being observed or covertly where the role of the researcher is
                        disguised.
Chapter 18 looks at focus groups. Focus groups in recent
                        years have become an increasingly popular data gathering method among
                        researchers in part because they stimulate dialogue and debate among
                        participants, often eliciting a rich array of views and perspectives.
One of the problems in using
                        questionnaires, interviews and observations is that they are potentially
                        reactive - that is, the data may become contaminated because of, say,
                        the bias of the research instruments or the way data are interpreted by the
                        researcher. An often neglected but equally powerful data gathering method is
                        what is termed 'unobtrusive measures' (Chapter 19),
                        which offer the benefit of being non-reactive. Unobtrusive measures include
                        physical evidence, documentary evidence and archival analysis, including
                        documents held on the World Wide Web. Unobtrusive measures can offer
                        flexible, creative and imaginative ways of collecting data, often to verify
                        findings from the use of other data collection methods.
Chapter 20 looks at using visual methods in research, for example,
                        analysing business reports or marketing materials or working with employees
                        who take photographs or videos in their workplace as part of a research
                        study. Chapter 21 involves the analysis of
                        secondary sources. Secondary analysis involves the use of existing data,
                        collected for the purpose of a prior study, in order to pursue a research
                        interest which is distinct from the original work. This may comprise a new
                        research question or an alternative perspective on the original question.
                        Sometimes researchers will make use of secondary sources because it becomes
                        possible to make use of longitudinal data; other researchers (often student
                        researchers) will use secondary sources in situations where access to
                        primary data is problematic.
Having collected data, they have to be analysed and the results presented (Part D). Of course, plans and designs
                        for analysis should have been completed long before this stage.
Chapter 22 helps you to get started in using IBM SPSS Statistics.
                        Researchers who are new to statistics find the additional challenge of
                        getting to grips with a new software program like SPSS somewhat daunting.
                        This chapter introduces you to some of the basic functions of SPSS so you
                        are up and running for Chapter 23 which looks at techniques
                        for presenting and analysing quantitative data, including ways of
                        categorizing quantitative data and cleaning and coding data. This chapter
                        also examines ways of analysing data using descriptive statistics and the
                        use of some elementary inferential statistical techniques.
In contrast, Chapter 24 looks at getting started
                        using the qualitative data analysis tool NVivo, after which Chapter 25 deals with approaches to how qualitative data can be
                        analysed. It looks particularly at content analysis and grounded
                        theory methods and also includes approaches such as the use of
                            narratives, conversational analysis and discourse
                            analysis. You will probably notice in reading Chapters 23
                        and 25 how some of the philosophical issues
                        raised in Chapter 2 are given substance in terms
                        of what is researched, and how the research is conducted.
After you have collected your data, you now want to present them in a way
                        that enhances their credibility and impact. Chapter 26
                        looks at different types of research report including organizational and
                        technical reports, and studies written up as part of an academic
                        dissertation or thesis. Advice is given on key features, such as the use of
                        appropriate language and writing style for the intended audience, and the
                        structure of the report. Finally, Chapter 27
                        explores the 'art' of giving a presentation (often required at
                        the end of an academic programme) and passing a viva.


How To Use This Book
How is the book best used as an aid to research? You could think of it as a
                        research manual that also explains the theoretical underpinnings of research
                        methods and provides guidance on where to find further information. It is
                        recommended that you read through the book, focusing on the objectives listed at the beginning of each
                        chapter. Try to get a feel for which aspects will be of particular interest
                        to you, noting any ideas or topics, approaches and practices that strike you
                        as relevant to your research. During the research process revisit these
                        parts and if you need further guidance, check with the Further readings
                        lists at the end of each chapter, which include brief details of the nature
                        of the sources mentioned. Note also any associated Case Studies (which are
                        designed to illustrate key research methodologies or approaches) and
                        Activities (designed to promote thinking, reflection and skills development
                        and, in the case of websites, a guide to additional information or
                        resources). It is not expected that you attempt to complete all Activities
                        - tackle those that you think would be most useful. Where it is felt
                        appropriate, suggested answers are given for some Activities at the end of
                        the relevant chapter. 'On the Web' encourages you to visit
                        useful websites that often provide valuable additional information.
Finally, take a careful note of Employability Skills. As mentioned earlier,
                        we all need to develop these skills if we want to enter or retain our
                        position in the world of work. Becoming skilled and experienced as a
                        researcher is itself a vital employability skill. Table 1.3
                        offers a range of Employability Skills, and where research skills can
                        contribute to learning them. It also provides a roadmap for where these can
                        be located in the book. Throughout the book the Employability Skills feature
                        will comment on how you can enhance these skills.







Top Tip 1.1
Finally, take time to read the Top Tips. These are specifically designed
                            to focus and give constructive, practical advice on those topics that
                            students often struggle with. These include help with overcoming popular
                            misunderstandings and misconceptions.



Summary
The growing complexity of the world means that research in the
                                business world is of growing importance. An understanding of the
                                world is underpinned by theory.Basic research seeks to develop universal principles and to produce
                                findings that are of value to society; applied research seeks to
                                create practical solutions to organizational problems.Organizational and social research draw upon fields of inquiry such
                                as sociology, anthropology, philosophy, communication, economics and
                                statistics, often adopting an inter-disciplinary approach.A theory consists of a set of interrelated concepts, definitions and
                                propositions that demonstrate relationships between variables.In using this book, do take the time to read the Case Studies, take
                                note of Employability Skills, undertake the Activities and to visit
                                the 'On the Web' sites.


Journal Resources
Calvert, J. (2006) 'What's special about basic
                        research?', Science, Technology & Human Values, 31(2):
                        199-220. Argues that 'basic research' is a flexible and
                        ambiguous concept that is drawn on by scientists to acquire prestige and
                        resources. Also shows that it is used for boundary work.



Basic Research





Role of Theory


Tavallaei, M. and Abu Talib, M. (2010) 'A general perspective on role
                        of theory in qualitative research', Journal of International
                            Social Research, 3(11): 570-577. Discusses the positioning of
                        theory in qualitative research.


Suggested Answers For Activity 1.1
Actually, it is all of them!

Don't forget to visit the companion website at https://study.sagepub.com/grayresearchbusiness for the
                            following resources which support this chapter:

















Part A Principles And Planning For
                    Research



2 Theoretical Perspectives and Research Methodologies in
                                    Business


17


Inductive and deductive
                                        reasoning
18

Epistemological and ontological
                                        perspectives
21

Theoretical perspectives
22

Research methodologies
30

Selecting research approaches
                                        and strategies
35



3 Selecting and Planning Business Research Proposals and
                                    Projects


41


Selecting a research topic
42

Topics to avoid
51

Planning the project
53

Writing academic proposals
53

Writing organizational
                                        proposals
65

The final stages for academic
                                        and organizational proposals
67



4 Business Research Ethics


71


What do we mean by ethics?
72

The growth of ethical codes of
                                        practice
73

The focus of ethics
77

Ethical principles
77

Putting ethics into practice
85

Perspectives on research
                                        ethics
88

Ethics and the Internet
90

Researching ethically in your
                                        own organization
92

Ethics and research reports
93

A checklist of ethical
                                        issues
93

Safety issues for
                                        researchers
95



5 Searching, Critically Reviewing and Using the Literature
                                    in Business


101


What function does the
                                        literature serve?
102

The literature search
                                        journey
104

The literature search
                                        process
105

Searching source materials
106

The process of critically
                                        evaluating sources
116

Managing information
119

Synthesizing and integrating
                                        search results
120

Structure and content of the
                                        literature review
121

Positioning the literature
                                        review
122

Referencing sources
123

Doing a critical literature
                                        review
123

Undertaking a systematic
                                        review
127















2 Theoretical Perspectives And
                        Research Methodologies In Business

Chapter Introduction

Chapter Outline
Inductive and deductive reasoningEpistemological and ontological perspectivesTheoretical perspectivesResearch methodologiesSelecting research approaches and strategies


Keywords
InductiveDeductiveEpistemologyOntologyTheoryObjectivismConstructivismSubjectivismResearch methodology



Icon Key







Author Video







Chapter Objectives
After reading this chapter you will be able to:
Distinguish between ontology and epistemology in
                                        research.Distinguish between inductive and deductive methods.Explain the different perspectives taken by positivism and
                                        interpretivism.Describe the different research methodologies and the
                                        conditions for their selection.Distinguish between exploratory, descriptive, explanatory
                                        and interpretative research studies.



We saw in Chapter 1 that the research process
                            requires us to engage at some stage with theoretical perspectives.
                            Sometimes this will occur before undertaking the research (the
                                deductive approach) and at other times after it
                                (inductive). But the question remains: which theories? The
                            purpose of this chapter is to examine the range of theoretical
                            perspectives available, and also to provide some guidance as to which
                            ones are most appropriate to the research project or task you are
                            undertaking.
This is far from being a simple process. If you are relatively new to the
                            study of philosophical perspectives, the nature of theories and their
                            significance to research methodologies may not be instantly obvious.
                            Furthermore, the nature and meaning of some philosophical perspectives
                            is still contested and debated.

Top Tip 2.1
At this stage it is suggested that you read this chapter without
                                dwelling too much on individual sections. If some of the discussion
                                seems rather abstract do not worry - keep going. It is
                                suggested that you return to this chapter at a later stage when its
                                relevance will, hopefully, be clearer and more easily absorbed.



Inductive And Deductive Reasoning
We have briefly examined the nature and uses of theory - but in
                            research should we begin with theory, or should theory itself result
                            from the research? Dewey (1933) outlines a general paradigm of enquiry
                            that underpins the scientific approach, consisting of inductive
                            discovery (induction) and deductive proof (deduction).
                            Deduction begins with a universal view of a situation and works back to
                            the particulars; in contrast, induction moves from fragmentary details
                            to a connected view of a situation.



Inductive & Deductive Reasoning



The Deductive Process
The deductive approach moves towards hypothesis testing, after
                                which the principle is confirmed, refuted or modified. These
                                hypotheses present an assertion about two or more concepts that attempts to explain the
                                relationship between them. Concepts themselves are abstract ideas
                                that form the building blocks of hypotheses and theories. The first
                                stage, therefore, is the elaboration of a set of principles or
                                allied ideas that are then tested through empirical
                                observation or experimentation. But before such experimentation can
                                take place, underlying concepts must be operationalized (made
                                measurable) in such a way that they can be observed to confirm that
                                they have occurred. Hence, measures and indicators are created. For
                                example, if research is to be conducted into marketing communication
                                and its impact on consumer brand loyalty, we would first have to
                                establish an operational definition of 'communication'
                                and 'brand loyalty' within the context of marketing
                                strategy. Through the creation of operational indicators, there is a
                                tendency to measure and collect data only on what can actually be
                                observed; hence, subjective and intangible evidence is usually ruled
                                out. Table 2.1 provides a summary of
                                this process.


The Inductive Process
Through the inductive approach, plans are made for data collection,
                                after which the data are analysed to see if any patterns emerge that
                                suggest relationships between variables. From these observations it
                                may be possible to construct generalizations, relationships and even
                                theories. Through induction, the researcher moves towards
                                discovering a binding principle, taking care not to jump to hasty
                                    inferences or conclusions on the basis of the data. To
                                ensure a degree of reliability, the researcher often takes multiple
                                cases or instances, through, for example, multiplying observations
                                rather than basing conclusions on one case (see Figure
                                    11.4, Chapter 11).



Example of Inductive Research





Figure 2.1 An
                                    illustration of how the inductive and deductive methods can be
                                    combined
It would not be true to say that the inductive process takes
                                absolutely no note of pre-existing theories or ideas when
                                approaching a problem. The very fact that an issue has been selected
                                for research implies judgements about what is an important subject
                                for research, and these choices are dependent on values and
                                concepts. This may help to formulate the overall purpose of the
                                research. But the inductive approach does not set out to corroborate
                                or falsify a theory. Instead, through a process of gathering data,
                                it attempts to establish patterns, consistencies and meanings.


Combining The Inductive And Deductive Methods
Inductive and deductive processes, however, are not mutually
                                exclusive. Adapting Dewey's (1933) formulation to a modern
                                problem, let us say a researcher has been asked to investigate the
                                problem of staff absenteeism. Taking a selection of facts (absentee
                                rates over time, in different departments and across staff grades),
                                the researcher is able to formulate a theory (inductive approach)
                                that absenteeism is related to working patterns (see Figure 2.1). It is particularly
                                rife among lower grade workers who are the objects of quite rigorous
                                supervision and control. The researcher then becomes interested in
                                what other impact this form of control may have on working practices
                                (deductive approach). A working hypothesis becomes formulated that
                                over-zealous supervision has produced low morale and therefore low
                                productivity levels among sections of the workforce. This hypothesis
                                is tested by the introduction of new working methods in some
                                sections, but not others (an experimental approach using a control
                                group), to compare productivity levels between traditionally
                                supervised sections and those using the new supervision methods. Figure 2.1 provides a summary of
                                this process.



Combining Deductive and Inductive
                                        Methods



Activity 2.1
For your own research project, consider whether you intend to
                                    adopt an inductive approach, a deductive approach, or a
                                    combination of the two. List three reasons for your choice.





Epistemological And Ontological Perspectives
We looked in Chapter 1 at the nature of theories
                            and their relationship to practice. We now need to explore the range of
                            theories available to us as researchers, and how we can select between
                            them. As Crotty (1998) demonstrates, one of the problems here is not
                            only the bewildering array of theoretical perspectives and
                            methodologies, but the fact that the terminology applied to them is
                            often inconsistent (or even contradictory). Crotty suggests that an
                            interrelationship exists between the theoretical stance adopted by the
                            researcher, the methodology and methods used, and the
                            researcher's view of the epistemology (see Figure 2.2).
Despite the natural tendency for the researcher (and especially the
                            novice researcher!) to select a data gathering method and get on with
                            the job, the choice of methods will be influenced by the research
                                methodology chosen. This methodology, in turn, will be
                            influenced by the theoretical perspectives adopted by the researcher,
                            and, in turn, by the researcher's epistemological stance. For
                            example, researchers who decide at an early stage that they intend to
                            use a structured questionnaire as part of a survey and to investigate
                            associations between respondents' perspectives and the type of
                            respondent (e.g. age, gender, etc.) are, whether they are aware of it or
                            not, adopting an objectivist approach.
Ontology is the study of being, that is, the nature of existence
                            and what constitutes reality. So, for example, for positivists the world
                            is independent of our knowledge of it - it exists 'out
                            there' - while for relativists and others, there are
                            multiple realities and ways of accessing them. While ontology embodies
                            understanding what is, epistemology tries to understand what
                                it means to know. Epistemology provides a philosophical
                            background for deciding what kinds of knowledge are legitimate and
                            adequate. As Easterby-Smith et al. (2002) point out, having an
                            epistemological perspective is important for several reasons. First, it
                            can help to clarify issues of research design. This means more than just
                            the design of research tools. It means the overarching structure of the
                            research including the kind of evidence that is being gathered, from
                            where, and how it is going to be interpreted. Secondly, a knowledge of
                            research philosophy will help the researcher to recognize which designs
                            will work (for a given set of objectives) and which will not.



Epistemology & Ontology


Western thought remains divided by two opposing ontological traditions.
                            Heraclitus (c.535-c.475BC), who lived in Ephesus in
                            ancient Greece, placed an emphasis on a changing and emergent world.
                            Parmenides (c.515-c.445BC), who succeeded him,
                            placed quite a different emphasis on a permanent and unchanging reality.
                            Between a Heraclitean ontology of becoming and a Parmenidean
                            ontology of being, it is the latter that has held sway in Western
                            philosophy. Hence, reality is seen as being composed of clearly formed
                            entities with identifiable properties (in contrast to a Heraclitean
                            emphasis on formlessness, chaos, interpenetration and absence). Once
                            entities are held to be stable they can become represented by symbols,
                            words and concepts. Thus a representationalist epistemology results in
                            which signs and language are taken to be accurate representations of the
                            external world. This representationalist epistemology orientates our
                            thinking towards outcomes and end-states rather than processes of
                            change. According to Chia (2002), only relatively recently has
                            postmodern epistemology challenged traditional being ontology
                            with notions of a becoming orientation and the limitations of
                            truth-seeking.
Figure 2.2
                                Relationship between epistemology, theoretical perspectives,
                                methodology and research methodsSource: Adapted from Crotty, 1998
It would be a mistake, however, to view being ontology as leading
                            to epistemological positions that are unitary and holistic. As Figure 2.2 shows, at least three positions have emerged.
                            Objectivist epistemology, for example, holds that reality exists
                            independently of consciousness - in other words, there is an
                            objective reality 'out there'. So, research is about
                            discovering this objective truth. In doing this, researchers should
                            strive not to include their own feelings and values. Objectivism,
                            however, does not entail the rejection of subjectivity: we can study
                            people's subjective views (their values, attitudes and beliefs)
                            but we must do so objectively (Bunge, 1993).
A theoretical perspective closely linked to objectivism is
                                positivism, which argues that reality exists external to the
                            researcher and must be investigated through the rigorous process of
                            scientific inquiry. In contrast, constructivism rejects this view
                            of human knowledge. Truth and meaning do not exist in some external
                            world, but are created by the subject's interactions with the
                            world. Meaning is constructed not discovered, so subjects
                            construct their own meaning in different ways, even in relation to the
                            same phenomenon. Hence, multiple, contradictory but equally valid
                            accounts of the world can exist. A theoretical perspective linked to
                            constructivism is interpretivism. Yet, while interpretivism and
                            objectivism hold different epistemological positions, both are still
                            based upon a being ontology (Chia, 2002).



Video: Paradigms and Meta-criteria


In contrast to constructivism, for subjectivism, meaning does not emerge
                            from the interplay between the subject and the outside world, but is
                            imposed on the object by the subject. Subjects do construct meaning, but
                            do so from within collective unconsciousness, from dreams, from
                            religious beliefs, etc. Despite Crotty's assertion that this is
                            'the most slippery of terms' (1998: 183), postmodernism
                            can be taken as an example of a theoretical perspective linked to
                            subjectivism (and becoming ontology).


Theoretical Perspectives
Of the different theoretical perspectives available, positivism and
                            various strands of interpretivism are, or have been (arguably), among
                            the most influential. These, and a number of other stances such as
                            critical inquiry, postmodernism and feminism, will be used here to
                            illustrate the value of adopting
                            theoretical perspectives that are congruent with the researcher's
                            epistemology and demonstrate the kinds of research methodologies that
                            emerge from them.

Positivism
Positivism was the dominant epistemological paradigm in social
                                science from the 1930s through to the 1960s, its core argument being
                                that the social world exists externally to the researcher, and that
                                its properties can be measured directly through observation. In
                                essence, positivism argues that:
Reality consists of what is available to the senses -
                                        that is, what can be seen, smelt, touched, etc.Inquiry should be based upon scientific observation (as
                                        opposed to philosophical speculation), and therefore on
                                        empirical inquiry.The natural and human sciences share common logical and
                                        methodological principles, dealing with facts and not with
                                        values.



Positivism


Hence, ideas only deserve their incorporation into knowledge if they
                                can be put to the test of empirical experience. Positivists saw the
                                natural sciences as progressing through the patient accumulation of
                                facts about the world in order to produce generalizations known as
                                scientific laws. To achieve this, the act of scientific inquiry was
                                taken to be the accumulation of 'brute data' such as
                                shape, size, motion, etc. For positivists, then, both the natural
                                and social worlds operated within a strict set of laws, which
                                science had to discover through empirical inquiry. This is a brief
                                summary of positivism, but, as Bryman (2007a) notes, there have been
                                many different versions of positivism, which overlap and which
                                rarely agreed precisely on its essential components.

The Case Against Positivism
Positivism has been described as 'one of the heroic
                                    failures of modern philosophy' (Williams and May, 1996:
                                    27). As Hughes and Sharrock (1997) show, one of the fundamental
                                    mistakes of positivism is some of the assumptions it made about
                                    scientific inquiry. Science is, certainly, interested in
                                    producing theoretical explanations but not just on the basis of
                                    what can be observed. Indeed, some branches of science consist
                                    almost entirely of mathematical formulations. Black holes and
                                    sub-atomic particles, for example, have been reasoned from only
                                    the most indirect of evidence. Typically, science does not begin
                                    from observation, but from theory, to make observations
                                    intelligible. Thus, even observations are 'theory
                                    laden' (Williams and May, 1996).
Adopting a positivistic stance is not only about adopting certain
                                    approaches to the design of research studies. As Crotty (1998)
                                    points out, it implies that the results of research will tend to
                                    be presented as objective facts and established truths. Popper
                                    (1968), however, suggests that no theory can ever be proved
                                    simply by multiple observations, since only one instance that
                                    refutes the theory would demonstrate it as false. According to
                                    Popper, theories cannot be proved to be true - they can
                                    only be proved to be false. Hence, with the deductive approach,
                                    theories are tested through observation, leading either to the
                                    falsification and discarding of the theory, or to the creation
                                    of, as yet, unfalsified laws.
Normal science consists of extending the knowledge of the facts
                                    that a paradigm suggests are especially important, by
                                    extending the match between those facts and the
                                    paradigm's predictions, and by further articulation of
                                    the paradigm itself. But normal science is a puzzle-solver and
                                    if it persistently fails to solve problems, then the failure of
                                    existing rules will lead
                                    to a search for new ones. This is part of what Kuhn (1996) has
                                    called a paradigm crisis. It is a crisis which may turn into a
                                    revolution if anomalies continue and new people enter the field,
                                    such as researchers who are not committed to the traditional
                                    rules of normal science and who are able to conceive of a new
                                    set of rules.
Case Study 2.1 provides an illustration of how stubbornly
                                    existing paradigms resist change - even in the face of
                                    emerging evidence that strongly contradicts their fundamental
                                    underpinning principles.

Case Study 2.1

The Conflict Of Paradigms
On 22 June 1633, Galileo Galilei was put on trial by the
                                            Inquisition in Rome. Charged with heresy, this old man
                                            of 69 was threatened with torture, imprisonment and even
                                            burning at the stake unless he renounced his claim that
                                            the Sun and not the Earth was the centre of the
                                            universe, and that the Earth moved around the Sun, and
                                            not vice versa.
The idea of an Earth-centred universe was first
                                            promulgated by Ptolemy of Alexandria in AD 150. The
                                            beauty of the Ptolemaic system was that it worked with
                                            some accuracy, enabling astronomers to predict, through
                                            complex geometry, the movements of the heavenly bodies.
                                            Later, these geocentric (Earth-centred) ideas became
                                            entrenched into the teachings of the Church, largely
                                            because they fitted neatly with the Christian notion of
                                            the centrality of mankind (Hellman, 1998). Hence,
                                            Ptolemaic theory became a combination of science,
                                            philosophy and religious ideas. Note the long-standing
                                            relationship between science and philosophy!
In 1543 Nicolaus Copernicus, a canon in the Polish
                                            Catholic Church, challenged the accepted Ptolemaic
                                            paradigm with a heliocentric (Sun-centred) system, but,
                                            as was traditional, his book was written in Latin and
                                            thus was not widely read. A century later,
                                            Galileo's repetition of these ideas in
                                                Dialogue on the Great World Systems, Ptolemaic
                                                and Copernican (1632) was written in Italian. As
                                            such it was widely accessible and seen by the Pope,
                                            Urban VIII, as a direct threat to the teachings of the
                                            Church.
Under the Inquisition's threats, Galileo recanted.
                                            These threats, after all, were not idle. A friend,
                                            Bruno, who had advocated the idea of an infinite
                                            universe, was tried by the Inquisition, refused to
                                            recant and was burned at the stake in 1600. Of course,
                                            the Church could not completely suppress the
                                                Dialogue. In fact, it was published in
                                            England before Galileo's death in 1642. But the
                                            trial before the Inquisition is an interesting example
                                            of the bitterness that can be generated when
                                            far-reaching new ideas come into open conflict with the
                                            vested interests of long-accepted paradigms - and
                                            the entrenched nature of these paradigms.



Activity 2.2
What kind of crisis would Kuhn call the events in Case Study
                                        2.1? How were vested interests threatened by
                                        Galileo's ideas? Has this crisis been resolved?



We have seen that, at least in the social sciences, many of
                                    positivism's avowed certainties about the nature and
                                    results of scientific inquiry have been strongly challenged. It
                                    should be noted, however, that some of the approaches to
                                    research developed under positivism, such as an insistence on
                                    empirical inquiry, the use of experimental designs and inductive
                                    generalization (to name but three), are still with us (as we
                                    shall see in later chapters) in one form or other. In general, however, we
                                    now inhabit a post-positivist world in which a number of
                                    alternative perspectives (for example, anti-positivist,
                                    post-positivist and naturalistic) have emerged. Indeed, as
                                    Onwuegbuzie, Johnson and Collins (2009) make clear,
                                    today's practising quantitative researchers would
                                    regard themselves as post-positivists, holding that there is an
                                    independent reality to be studied, but that all observation is
                                    inherently fallible - we can only approximate the truth,
                                    never explaining it perfectly or completely. Hence, given the
                                    fallibility of observations, post-positivist research lays
                                    emphasis on inferential statistics with its emphasis on
                                    assigning probabilities that observed findings are
                                    correct (not certainties).



Interpretivism
A major anti-positivist stance is interpretivism, which looks
                                for 'culturally derived and historically situated
                                interpretations of the social life-world' (Crotty, 1998: 67).
                                There is no, direct, one-to-one relationship between ourselves
                                (subjects) and the world (object). The world is interpreted through
                                the classification schemas of the mind (Williams and May, 1996). In
                                terms of epistemology, interpretivism is closely linked to
                                constructivism. Interpretivism asserts that natural reality (and the
                                laws of science) and social reality are different and therefore
                                require different kinds of method. While the natural sciences are
                                looking for consistencies in the data in order to deduce
                                'laws' (nomothetic), the social sciences often
                                deal with the actions of the individual (ideographic).

Our interest in the social world tends to focus on exactly those
                                    aspects that are unique, individual and qualitative, whereas our
                                    interest in the natural world focuses on more abstract
                                    phenomena, that is, those exhibiting quantifiable, empirical
                                    regularities. (Crotty, 1998: 68)

Let us now look at five examples of the interpretivist approach:
                                    symbolic interactionism, phenomenology,
                                    realism, hermeneutics and naturalistic
                                inquiry.

Symbolic Interactionism
Symbolic interactionism grew in the 1930s out of the work of the
                                    American pragmatist philosophers, including John Dewey and the
                                    social psychologist George Herbert Mead. These philosophers
                                    shared a disenchantment with what they saw as the irrelevance of
                                    contemporary philosophy and social science. Instead, they wanted
                                    to develop a way of conceptualizing human behaviour that focused
                                    on people's practices and lived realities. Central to
                                    social behaviour is the notion of meaning. Human interaction
                                    with the world is mediated through the process of meaning-making
                                    and interpretation. The essential tenets of symbolic
                                    interactionism are that:
People interpret the meaning of objects and actions in
                                            the world and then act upon those interpretations.Meanings arise from the process of social
                                            interaction.Meanings are handled in, and are modified by, an
                                            interactive process used by people in dealing with the
                                            phenomena that are encountered.



Symbolic Interactionism


Thus, meanings are not fixed or stable but are revised on the
                                    basis of experience. This includes the definition of
                                    'self' and of who we are. For example, if someone
                                    is promoted from supervisor to manager their perception of
                                    themselves and the company may change, which in turn leads to
                                    changes in the meaning of objects, and thereby to changes in
                                    behaviour.
In order to understand this process, researchers have to study a
                                    subject's actions, objects and society from the
                                    perspective of the subject themselves. In practice, this can
                                    mean entering the field
                                    setting and observing at first-hand what is happening. The kinds
                                    of research methodologies that are often associated with
                                    symbolic interactionism include ethnography and the use of
                                    participative observation methods (Chapter 17) and grounded theory (Chapter 7).


Phenomenology
Phenomenology holds that any attempt to understand social reality
                                    has to be grounded in people's experiences of that social
                                    reality. Hence, phenomenology insists that we must lay aside our
                                    prevailing understanding of phenomena and revisit our immediate
                                    experience of them in order that new meanings may emerge.
                                    Current understandings have to be 'bracketed' to
                                    the best of our ability to allow phenomena to 'speak for
                                    themselves', unadulterated by our preconceptions. The
                                    result will be new meaning, fuller meaning or renewed meaning.
                                    Attempts are made to avoid ways in which the prejudices of
                                    researchers bias the data. The key is gaining the subjective
                                    experience of the subject, sometimes by trying to put oneself in
                                    the place of the subject. Hence, phenomenology becomes an
                                    exploration, via personal experience, of prevailing cultural
                                    understandings. Value is ascribed not only to the
                                    interpretations of researchers, but also to the subjects of the
                                    research themselves. Far from using a theoretical model that
                                    imposes an external logic on a phenomenon, this inductive
                                    approach seeks to find the internal logic of the subject. Table 2.2 provides a summary
                                    of some of the major distinctions between positivism and
                                    phenomenology.



Phenomenology


Tesch (1994) distinguishes between phenomenological research and
                                        ethnography. While both are based upon description
                                    and interpretation, ethnographic research is focused more on
                                    culture and phenomenology, on human experience of the
                                    'life-world'. So, while the unit of
                                        analysis of phenomenology is often individuals,
                                    ethnographers make use of 'sites'. Phenomenology
                                    makes use almost exclusively of interviews, while
                                    ethnography's prime mode of data collection is
                                    observation (as a participant or outside observer), which is
                                    sometimes supplemented by interview data for clarification.
                                    Ethnographers pay particular attention to language and the ways
                                    in which terms are used in certain cultures. A summary of the
                                    distinctions between phenomenological research and ethnography
                                    is given in Table 2.3.


Source: Adapted from
                                        Easterby-Smith et al., 2002




Source: Adapted from Tesch,
                                        1994



Realism
Realism begins from the position that the picture that science
                                    paints of the world is a true and accurate one (Chia, 2002). So
                                    for the realist researcher, objects of research such as
                                    'culture', 'the organization',
                                    'corporate planning' exist and act quite
                                    independently of the observer. They are therefore as available
                                    for systematic analysis as natural phenomena. Hence, knowledge
                                    is advanced through the process of theory-building in which
                                    discoveries add to what is already known. But although reality
                                    comprises entities, structures and events, realism holds that
                                    some observable 'facts' may be merely illusions.
                                    Conversely, there may be phenomena that cannot be observed but
                                    which exist none the less. In general, realism holds that there
                                    is an external reality 'out there' that can be
                                    measured - but achieving this can be difficult.



Realism


Madill, Jordan and Shirley (2000) distinguish between three
                                    realist epistemologies: naïve, scientific and critical.
                                    Naïve realism asserts a rather simplistic correspondence
                                    theory of truth in which the world is largely knowable and is,
                                    just as it appears to be - provided research methods and
                                    instruments are adequately crafted (Niiniluoto, 1999).
                                    Scientific realism considers that the scientific method can tap
                                    true representations of the world, although this may sometimes
                                    be fallible. Critical realism, however, contends that the way we
                                    perceive the world depends, in part, on our beliefs and
                                    expectations, one outcome being that the complete truth may be
                                    hard to come by (Bunge, 1993). Critical realism admits an
                                    inherent subjectivity in the production of knowledge and has
                                    much in common with constructionist positions (Madill et al.,
                                    2000).
In terms of methodology, pluralism is the 'gold
                                    standard' of realist research (Pawson and Tilley, 2001:
                                    323). This means that nothing is ruled out, with methods being
                                    used according to opportunity and need. Hence, in a comparison
                                    of blood donation processes between market and non-market
                                    suppliers, Titmuss (1970) used a national survey of 3,800 blood
                                    donors, unstructured interviews, meta-analysis of previous
                                    studies, document analysis and statistics.


Hermeneutics
The hermeneutic tradition is associated largely with
                                    nineteenth-century German philosophy, but also has connections
                                    with phenomenology and the psychoanalysis of Freud. According to
                                    a hermeneutic perspective, social reality is seen as socially
                                    constructed, rather than being rooted in objective fact. Hence,
                                    hermeneutics argues that interpretation should be given more
                                    standing than explanation and description. Social reality is too
                                    complex to be understood through the process of observation. The scientist must
                                    interpret in order to achieve deeper levels of knowledge and
                                    also self-understanding.



Hermeneutics




Naturalistic Inquiry
According to Lincoln and Guba (1994), in the naturalistic
                                        paradigm there are multiple constructed realities that
                                    can only be studied holistically. Inquiry into these multiple
                                    realities raises more questions than it answers, so that
                                    prediction and control of outcomes is a largely futile
                                    expectation, although some level of understanding can be
                                    achieved (Guba, 1985). Inquiry itself cannot be detached but is
                                    value-bounded by the perspectives of the researcher. Rather than
                                    aiming to generalize, inquiry develops an ideographic body of
                                    knowledge that describes individual cases. Within these cases,
                                    plausible inferences on events and processes are made, but this
                                    falls short of claiming causality. Phenomena can only be
                                    understood within their environment or setting; they cannot be
                                    isolated or held constant while others are manipulated. The real
                                    world is too complex, diverse and interdependent for this
                                    (Lincoln, 1985).



Naturalistic Inquiry


Research designs cannot be pre-specified, but 'emerge,
                                    unroll, cascade, or unfold during the research process'
                                    (Lincoln, 1985: 142). Because naturalists believe in the concept
                                    of multiple, constructed realities, it would be incongruent to
                                    specify these designs in advance. However, the types of research
                                    methods usually selected by naturalistic inquirers involve those
                                    most closely associated with a human component: interviewing,
                                        participant observation, document and content
                                    analysis (and other forms of unobtrusive measures).



Critical Inquiry
It is worth having a brief overview of critical inquiry
                                because it offers quite a different perspective to positivism and
                                interpretivism. This critical form of research is a meta-process of
                                investigation, which questions currently held values and assumptions
                                and challenges conventional social structures. It invites both
                                researchers and participants to discard what they term 'false
                                consciousness' in order to develop new ways of understanding
                                as a guide to effective action, confronting unjust social systems.
                                In a Marxist sense, the critical inquiry perspective is not content
                                to interpret the world but also seeks to change it. The assumptions
                                that lie beneath critical inquiry are that:
Ideas are mediated by power relations in society.Certain groups in society are privileged over others and
                                        exert an oppressive force on subordinate groups.What are presented as 'facts' cannot be
                                        disentangled from ideology and the self-interest of dominant
                                        groups.Mainstream research practices are implicated, even if
                                        unconsciously, in the reproduction of the systems of class,
                                        race and gender oppression.



Example of Critical Inquiry


Those adhering to the critical inquiry perspective accuse
                                interpretivists of adopting an uncritical stance towards the culture
                                they are exploring, whereas the task of researchers is to call the
                                structures and values of society into question.


Feminism
Like Marxism and critical inquiry, feminist epistemologies take the
                                view that what a person knows is largely determined by their social
                                position. But whereas Marxism defines social class in terms of a
                                person's relationship to the means of production, feminism
                                regards women themselves as
                                an oppressed social class. Because men come from a position of
                                dominance, their knowledge of the world is distorted. In contrast,
                                women, being subject to domination, have a less distorted social
                                experience that has the potential to produce less distorted
                                knowledge claims (Williams and May, 1996). But what counts as
                                knowledge is also challenged. Attempts at rational or objective
                                approaches to research are seen as the remit of male researchers,
                                reflecting and prioritizing male values. In contrast, women have
                                access to a deeper reality through their personal experiences (of
                                oppression), and through their feelings and emotions.
As we will see in Chapter 17 on ethnography,
                                there are some research methodologies that have come to be seen as
                                particularly appropriate by feminist researchers. According to
                                Huisman (2008) what makes ethnography feminist is its concern with
                                the social positioning of the researcher in relation to research
                                subjects, particularly the notion of reflexivity. Hence, the
                                researcher seeks to make her assumptions and values (biased or
                                otherwise) as explicit as possible. Just as important as
                                self-examination is the idea of reciprocity - researchers and
                                participants are equal and both should benefit from the research
                                (McNamara, 2009).


Postmodernism
Postmodernism is far from being a unified system of thought
                                and is sometimes used interchangeably with concepts such as
                                deconstructionism and post-structuralism. Emerging from the
                                disillusionment of French intellectuals with Marxism after the
                                events of 1968, postmodernism was not just an attack on positivism,
                                but on the entire historical agenda of modernity - and
                                particularly Marxism (Delanty, 1997). Postmodernism rejects any
                                notion of social 'emancipation', emphasizing instead
                                multiplicity, ambiguity, ambivalence and fragmentation. Whereas
                                philosophers such as Habermas had seen fragmentation in negative
                                terms and as a threat to communication, postmodernism views it quite
                                positively as an opportunity for choice. Hence postmodern analysis
                                often focuses on themes within advertising, lifestyles, fashion,
                                sub-cultures and gender.



Postmodernism


In terms of research, the primary task becomes the deconstruction of
                                texts to expose how values and interests are embedded within them
                                (Williams and May, 1996). The focus becomes not one of how these
                                texts describe the 'reality' of the world, but how the
                                social world becomes represented, and how meanings are produced.
                                Texts are therefore seen as social practices, embedded with multiple
                                values and vested interests, not the reporting of independent,
                                objective judgements. As we have seen, in contrast to other
                                epistemologies, postmodernism stresses a becoming
                                ontology.


Pragmatism
Pragmatism is presented here because it is a relatively old
                                philosophy but one that has seen a recent revival. Pragmatism was
                                founded by American philosophers Charles Pierce (1839-1914),
                                William James (1842-1910) and John Dewey (1859-1952)
                                at the beginning of the twentieth century in an attempt to help
                                American society face the many problems it was confronting at the
                                time. Pierce is often referred to as the first spokesman of
                                pragmatism, James as its translator to a wider audience, and Dewey
                                as its most well-known advocate, due to his influence on pedagogical
                                methods and educational systems (Sundin and Johannisson, 2006). For
                                pragmatism, an ideology is true only if it works (particularly in
                                promoting equity, freedom and justice) and generates practical
                                consequences for society. Hence, pragmatists focus not on whether a
                                proposition fits a particular ontology, but whether it suits a
                                purpose and is capable of creating action (Rorty, 1998). A belief is
                                    true if that belief
                                opens opportunities for better ways of democratic, purposeful
                                living. However, pragmatism struggled to maintain its influence
                                beyond the first three decades of the twentieth century (Kelemen and
                                Rumens, 2012).



Pragmatism


Since the 1970s, however, pragmatism has regained some of its
                                popularity, largely because of the insights it has provided for
                                research into management and organizations and also because it is
                                seen by some to provide an epistemological justification for mixing
                                approaches and methods (Onwuegbuzie et al., 2009). While in
                                pragmatist research research paradigms can remain separate, they can
                                also be mixed or combined into another research design. Hence,
                                pragmatism views the mixing of quantitative and qualitative data in
                                a single study not only as legitimate, but in some cases necessary.
                                We will look at mixed methods in detail in Chapter
                                    8.



Research Methodologies
We have examined, briefly, the significance of both epistemology and
                            theoretical perspectives in research design. Let us now look at applying
                            these in practice by exploring some of the alternative research
                            methodologies. The choice of research methodology is determined by a
                            combination of several factors - for example, whether the
                            researcher believes that there is some sort of external
                            'truth' out there that needs discovering, or whether the
                            task of research is to explore and unpick people's multiple
                            perspectives in natural, field settings. It is influenced, then, by
                            whether the research is inclined towards a positivist, interpretivist,
                            or other perspective. It will also be influenced, for example, by the
                            researcher's attitude towards the ways in which she or he thinks
                            theory should be used - whether research should begin with a
                            theoretical model or perspective (deductive approach) or whether such
                            models should emerge from the data itself (inductively).



Research Methods Interview


In examining each of the following research methodologies (selected to
                            illustrate a range of approaches), pause each time to consider whether
                            you think each is inclined towards a more 'being' or
                            'becoming' ontology. A Case Study is provided for each
                            methodology to help you.

Experimental And Quasi-Experimental Research
In classical, scientific experiments, subjects are randomly assigned
                                to either an experimental or a control group. The experimental group
                                receives the 'treatment' and the results are compared
                                with the control group that does not receive the treatment. Hence,
                                the researcher manipulates the independent variable (the
                                variable that the researcher has some control over) to see its
                                effect on the dependent variable (the response that is
                                measured). For example, an experiment could measure the effect on
                                test scores (dependent variable) of a new computer-assisted training
                                system (independent variable). In the real world, however, it is
                                often not possible to conduct truly experimental research because it
                                is difficult to find experimental and control groups that are
                                closely matched in terms of key variables (such as age, gender,
                                income, work grade, etc.). Instead, a quasi-experimental design is
                                used where the researcher, for example, has to take existing groups
                                rather than drawing on random samples. Instead of trying to
                                manipulate an independent variable the researcher will often attempt
                                to find groups of people who have experienced it in their own
                                natural setting. An attempt is then made to compare the behaviour of
                                this group with that of a similar group that has not experienced the
                                event or phenomenon. In experimental and quasi-experimental research
                                there is also the tendency to make use of hypotheses which the
                                experiment seeks either to support or to refute. In other words,
                                experimental research is usually deductive.
Experimental and
                                quasi-experimental research, then, places an emphasis on:
Reproducing the techniques of the laboratory experiment with
                                        highly structured methods.The generation of initial hypotheses.The control of variables.Accurate (quantitative) measurement of outcomes.Generalization from samples to similar populations.



Experimental Research in
                                        Organizations



Case Study 2.2

Experimental Research
A global organization selling Internet hardware, software and
                                        services has an extensive set of internal training
                                        programmes, each of which is formally assessed. The company
                                        wants to reduce the size of the overall training budget
                                        through the use of e-learning, but is concerned as to
                                        whether learning through this mechanism is more effective,
                                        less effective or makes no difference. It is believed by the
                                        research team that e-learning will be marginally more
                                        effective - thus they have a working hypothesis.
All 200 members of a representative sample are given a
                                        pre-test of their understanding of a selected subject. Then
                                        the subject is taught to 100 participants through
                                        traditional, classroom learning (the control group) and to
                                        the other 100 participants through a specially designed
                                        e-learning program (the experimental group). All employees
                                        are given a post-test, and the gain-scores (the differences
                                        between the pre-test and post-test score) compared between
                                        the two groups.
Experimental and quasi-experimental research designs will be
                                        considered in more detail in Chapter 6.




Phenomenological Research
As we saw earlier, phenomenology holds that any understanding of
                                social reality has to be grounded in people's own experiences
                                of that reality. Hence, if researching management practices, to
                                understand them researchers need to immerse ourselves in management
                                as it appears in itself. Ehrich (2005) suggests that since an aim of
                                phenomenological methodology is to shed light upon the meanings of
                                human experience, this could be applied to the range of human
                                experiences within management. This could include issues such
                                as:
What is the nature of managerial practice or
                                        competence?What does it mean to be a manager?What is tactfulness and thoughtfulness in management?
Phenomenology is a theoretical perspective that uses relatively
                                unstructured methods of data collection. One of its advantages is
                                that, because of its emphasis on the inductive collection of large
                                amounts of data, it is more likely to pick up factors that were not
                                part of the original research focus. Phenomenological research,
                                then, is about producing 'thick descriptions'
                                of people's experiences and perspectives within their natural
                                settings. But it is often based upon quite small case studies giving
                                rise to concerns about its generalizability to other situations.
                                Also, because it is generally unstructured, phenomenological
                                research may be difficult to replicate. Phenomenological research,
                                then:
Emphasizes inductive logic.Seeks the opinions and subjective accounts and
                                        interpretations of participants.Relies on qualitative analysis of data.Is not so much concerned with generalizations to larger
                                        populations, but with contextual description and
                                        analysis.


Case Study 2.3

Phenomenological Research



Flexibility in Researcher
                                                Role


Over the last three years, a global corporation has spent
                                        what it regards as a considerable sum of money on an
                                        executive coaching programme for its middle managers and
                                        wants some feedback on its effectiveness. By chance, Bob,
                                        the current Director of the Human Resources department, is
                                        completing his MSc in Coaching and is looking for a subject
                                        for his research dissertation. He volunteers to conduct the
                                        research. After exploring a number of epistemological
                                        approaches and methods, he decides on phenomenology for two
                                        reasons. Firstly, using Moustakas (1994) as a guide, he
                                        wants to understand these managers' perceptions of
                                        coaching (their subjective experience) and whether this
                                        affected their engagement with coaching. Secondly, as
                                        Director of HR he recognized his closeness to the issue, so
                                        phenomenology would be helpful since it requires the
                                        researcher to 'bracket' their understandings
                                        to see things as they really are. So Bob ensures that he
                                        engages with frequent 'reality checks' both
                                        with the literature and also through his own personal
                                        reflections to keep his own influence to a minimum.
Phenomenological research will be considered in greater
                                        detail in Chapter 7.




Analytical Surveys
These attempt to test a theory in the field through exploring the
                                association between variables. Analytical surveys are highly
                                structured and place an emphasis on the careful random selection of
                                samples, so that the results can be generalized to other situations
                                or contexts. On the other hand, the very tightness of the survey
                                structure may hinder the ability of respondents to provide
                                illuminating information in a way that they would like.
Like the truly experimental approach, analytic surveys emphasize:
A deductive approach.The identification of the research population.The drawing of a representative sample from the
                                        population.Control of variables.The generation of both qualitative and quantitative
                                        data.Generalizability of results.

Case Study 2.4

Analytical Surveys



Example of analytical Survey


As part of its long-term strategic planning, a low-cost
                                        airline conducts a large-scale survey on customer attitudes.
                                        It is particularly concerned to discern changes and trends,
                                        including customer attitudes towards higher cost competitors
                                        and what customers regard as good services. Over a period of
                                        a month, teams of researchers work at airports, talking to
                                        queues of customers and noting their responses on a
                                        Web-based questionnaire on their iPads. The survey starts
                                        with demographic information such as the customer's
                                        gender, age, whether they are a business or holiday
                                        traveller and their income (the latter a voluntary question
                                        since it is intrusive). Then the survey focuses on:
How often they travel using low-cost airlinesHow they book their travel (e.g. Internet, a travel
                                                agent, mobile phone, etc.)Sources of information for getting to know about the
                                                airline (such as family/friends, TV/radio, the
                                                Internet, etc.)What areas they think low-cost airlines should
                                                improve (including: safety, staff services, seat
                                                comfort, etc.)
The survey is constructed so that correlation levels
                                        (strength of relationships) between demographic profiles
                                        (age, income etc.) and other variables can be analysed. The
                                        hypothesis being tested is that older, more wealthy
                                        travellers seek greater travelling comfort (seat comfort and
                                        leg-room) rather than lower price. If the hypothesis is
                                        proved, this will have important strategic implications for
                                        the type of aircraft the budget airline purchases in the
                                        future.
Analytical surveys will be considered in more detail in Chapter 10.




Action Research
Action research involves close collaboration between researcher and
                                practitioners, and places an emphasis on promoting change within
                                organizations. While the emphasis is on seeking information on the
                                attitudes and perspectives of practitioners in the field, the way in
                                which data are collected may involve both quantitative and
                                qualitative methods. The main action research medium, however, is
                                the case study, or multiple case studies. In some research designs,
                                both an experimental and a control case study may be used, so
                                emulating the experimental approach. Action research then:
Involves both researchers and practitioners (or
                                        practitioners as researchers within their own
                                        organization).Can be highly structured and involve the use of experimental
                                        and control groups used to test a hypothesis.Can also be quite unstructured and used inductively (and
                                        qualitatively).



Action Research Methods



Case Study 2.5

Action Research
A university research team has been funded to conduct a
                                        programme aimed at helping family owned businesses to become
                                        more successful. In adopting an action research approach,
                                        the researchers do not claim to have all the answers.
                                        Instead, they meet the family members to start the process
                                        of collectively diagnosing the kinds of issues and problems
                                        the firm faces, part of the planning phase of action
                                        research. One of the themes identified is the need for new
                                        product development (the action phase). Over the next 12
                                        months, a number of new product lines are developed and
                                        trialled with members of the public (observation phase).
                                        Finally, the researchers and family business owners work
                                        together in evaluating which new product line to launch
                                        (reflecting phase).
Action research methods will be considered in more detail in
                                            Chapter 13.




Heuristic Inquiry
Heuristic inquiry is a process that begins with a question or
                                a problem which the researcher tries to illuminate or find an answer
                                to. The question itself is usually focused on an issue that has
                                posed a personal problem and to which answers are required.
                                It seeks, through open-ended
                                inquiry, self-directed search and immersion in active experience, to
                                'get inside' the question by becoming one with it.



Heuristic inquiry


According to Moustakas (1990), one of the primary processes of
                                heuristic research is self-dialogue in which the researcher enters
                                into a conversation with the phenomenon and is questioned by it. It
                                is hoped that the process will lead to self-discoveries, awareness
                                and enhanced understanding. Through this, the researcher is able to
                                develop the skills and ability to understand the problem itself and,
                                in turn, to develop the understanding of others.
Philosophically, heuristic inquiry does not start from the premise
                                that there is an external 'objective' truth to be
                                discovered. In contrast, it starts phenomenologically from the
                                belief that understanding grows out of direct human experience and
                                can only be discovered initially through self-inquiry. Heuristic
                                research, then, is autobiographical, providing for a deep, personal
                                analysis. It is richly descriptive, but also strongly subjective,
                                and weak in terms of generalizability.
Heuristic research, then, involves the researcher in:
A deep personal questioning of what it is they wish to
                                        research.Living, sleeping and merging with the research
                                        question.Allowing inner workings of intuition to extend understanding
                                        of the question.Reviewing all the data from personal experiences to identify
                                        tacit meanings.Forming a creative synthesis, including ideas for and
                                        against a proposition.

Case Study 2.6

Heuristic Research
The Operations Director of a company finds that he is passed
                                        over for promotion to Chief Executive for the third time. In
                                        an attempt to understand why this has occurred, he
                                        approaches the Chairperson, who has been largely responsible
                                        for this decision and asks if she will join him in a
                                        heuristic research project to uncover the reasons behind the
                                        decision. At first, the Chairperson is reluctant because she
                                        thinks (rightly) that the process will reveal some of her
                                        confidential thoughts. But she eventually agrees because she
                                        realizes that the process of working together might
                                        articulate for her the personal qualities she is seeking in
                                        a Chief Executive.
The Operations Director, who acts as the researcher, begins
                                        with a deep personal reflection on what he wants to achieve
                                        in the research. Then, through a series of open and frank
                                        discussions with the Chairperson, he works through his
                                        feelings towards his current role, his successes and
                                        failures in numerous projects, his expectations of the
                                        Chairperson and her expectations of him. Over a period of
                                        five meetings he begins to understand that the blockage is
                                        not based upon prejudice, but on a feeling (shared by other
                                        members of the Board) that he is an excellent Operations
                                        Director, but lacks the strategic vision to be the
                                        Chief Executive. Through a process of explication (the full
                                        examination of awakened consciousness), he begins to realize
                                        that this analysis is probably correct.



Activity 2.3
Examine the range of research methodologies outlined above.
                                    Select one methodology that you think could be valid for your
                                    own research uses and one that is inappropriate. Justify your
                                    choices.





Selecting Research Approaches And Strategies
In this chapter we have examined some of the philosophies of research,
                            two approaches to research (inductive and deductive) and, within the
                            context of truth and perspective-seeking objectives, some research
                            methodologies (experimental, survey, phenomenological, etc.). We now
                            need to put these together within a coherent framework (or as near to
                            one as we can get) and to add a time horizon and data collection
                            methods. Notice that data collection methods are being discussed last
                            (see Figure 2.3). Novice researchers may
                            be tempted to begin with the design, say, of a questionnaire, so that
                            data can be gathered without delay, but Figure 2.3
                            shows that other stages must be considered first.

Connecting The Research Elements
As we saw earlier, it is wise to start by considering epistemology.
                                At first sight, this might seem rather irrelevant. But your approach
                                to research and the research methods that you use will be influenced
                                by whether you think it is possible (or desirable) to try to measure
                                an objective 'truth', or whether you think that the
                                real world cannot be measured in this way. As we have seen, the
                                theoretical perspective of interpretivism sees the world as too
                                complex to be reduced to a set of observable 'laws'.
                                Generalizability is less important than understanding the real
                                workings behind 'reality'. With your research topic in
                                mind, you will probably have a view as to whether you want to
                                measure and generalize to a larger population or to seek
                                'thick descriptions', through the collection of
                                qualitative data. Alternatively, your approach might include
                                elements of both. Hence, Figure 2.3 does not illustrate a
                                dividing wall between epistemologies and perspectives, but a gradual
                                shading of one into the other.
Figure 2.3 The
                                    elements of the research processSource: Adapted from Saunders et
                                    al., 2012
We also have access to a
                                range of research methodologies. Figure
                                    2.3 deliberately shows the experimental methodology beneath
                                the deductive/positivism side of the diagram. Conversely, action
                                research has been placed more towards inductive/interpretivism. But
                                it is dangerous to categorize research methodologies against
                                specific approaches and philosophies. Action research, for example,
                                can incorporate a qualitative, inductive approach with an emphasis
                                on seeking the views and perspectives of participants. Equally, it
                                can use, say, a series of case studies involving an intervention
                                with a number of groups, with others used as a control - in
                                other words, an experimental methodology. Figure
                                    2.3, then, illustrates some broad tendencies that should not
                                be interpreted as concrete relationships. What is important, is that
                                whatever philosophy, approach and methodology you adopt for your
                                research, you should be able to justify your mix in relation to your
                                research philosophy and research question(s).

Top Tip 2.2
In planning a research project, never begin by deciding on what
                                    data gathering tool or approach to use. Begin by identifying
                                    what it is you are actually trying to research. Link this issue
                                    to your appreciation and commitment to one or more of the
                                    epistemological stances discussed above. If you come to the
                                    selection of data gathering tools towards the end of your
                                    planning process, you should be on the right lines.



Timeframes For Research
In planning your research you will usually have some sort of idea as
                                to the timescales you have available to you. If these are
                                short-term, then you will probably have to adopt a
                                    cross-sectional study using a 'snapshot'
                                approach where the data are collected at one point in time.
                                Cross-sectional studies often use a survey methodology. For example,
                                they might seek to measure staff attitudes towards the introduction
                                of new working practices, or to compare crime rates for particular
                                types of crime between different cities. Most research studies are
                                cross-sectional, mainly because of the pressure of time and
                                resources.
If your timescales are more generous, it may be possible to undertake
                                a longitudinal study, to research change and development over
                                time. Taking our example above, a longitudinal study of working
                                practices might examine changes in staff attitudes over time,
                                looking at attitudes before the introduction of new working
                                practices, and then at various periods afterwards.


Exploratory, Descriptive, Explanatory And Interpretive
                                Studies
While we have so far classified studies by their research
                                methodology, they can also be classified according to their purpose.
                                As Robson (2002) explains, there are three possible forms of study:
                                exploratory, descriptive and explanatory. To these Maxwell (1996)
                                adds a fourth, interpretive studies. Punch (2005) maintains that
                                where a research area is relatively new or unexplored, descriptive
                                studies may be adequate. However, for well-worked research areas,
                                where there is already a plethora of descriptive information, a more
                                exploratory approach is advisable.


Exploratory Studies
As the name suggests, exploratory studies seek to explore what is
                                    happening and to ask questions about it. They are particularly
                                    useful when not enough is known about a phenomenon. An
                                    exploratory study, then, may help to decide whether it is worth
                                    researching the issue or not. As Saunders et al. (2012) suggest,
                                    exploratory studies can be conducted by:
A search of the literature.Talking to experts in the field.Conducting focus group interviews.
Having established the main constructs or focus of a study, it
                                    may then be possible to conduct explanatory or interpretive
                                    research.


Descriptive Studies
According to Hedrick et al. (1993), the purpose of a descriptive
                                    study is to provide a picture of a phenomenon as it naturally
                                    occurs. This may, indeed, by purely descriptive (for example,
                                    the number and type of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs)
                                    that manage to gain access to bank finance). But it may also
                                    comprise a normative study, comparing the data against some
                                    standard (for example, comparing SME access to bank finance
                                    compared with the borrowings of large companies). Descriptive
                                    studies seek to 'draw a picture' of a situation,
                                    person or event or show how things are related to each other. As
                                    Blumberg, Cooper and Schindler (2005) point out, one of the
                                    weaknesses of descriptive studies is that they cannot explain
                                    why an event has occurred.


Explanatory Studies
An explanatory study sets out to explain and account for the
                                    descriptive information. So, while descriptive studies may ask
                                    'what' kinds of questions, explanatory studies
                                    seek to ask 'why' and 'how'
                                    questions. This distinction between descriptive and explanatory
                                    research applies equally to both quantitative and qualitative
                                    research.
Some studies can also be correlative in nature, with the emphasis
                                    on discovering causal relationships between variables. So we
                                    could explore survival rates amongst SMEs with the extent to
                                    which they are able to borrow from banks.


Interpretive Studies
Interpretive studies seek to explore people's experiences
                                    and their views or perspectives of these experiences.
                                    Interpretive studies are, typically, inductive in nature and
                                    often associated with qualitative approaches to data gathering
                                    and analysis.



Using Multiple Methods
Much of the discussion so far has tended to offer a dichotomy of
                                approaches - inductive or deductive, experimental or case
                                study, cross-sectional or longitudinal. In practice, however, it is
                                often the case that multiple methods will be used. One reason is
                                that research projects usually include a number of different
                                research questions, so a research method appropriate for one
                                question may be inappropriate for another. The second reason for
                                using multiple methods is that it enables triangulation to be
                                used. Easterby-Smith et al. (2002) refer to data triangulation as
                                the collecting of data over different times or from different
                                sources. This approach is typical of cross-sectional designs.
                                Methodological triangulation is also possible, with the use of a combination of methods
                                such as case studies, interviews and surveys. All methods have their
                                strengths and weaknesses. So not only does the use of multiple
                                methods assist in data triangulation, it helps to balance out any of
                                the potential weaknesses in each data collection method. But
                                whichever methods are used, in the final analysis Oakley's
                                argument is sound: 'all methods must be open,
                                consistently applied and replicable by others' (1999: 252,
                                original emphasis). These multiple methods approaches to research
                                are discussed in more detail in Chapter
                                    8, Business Research Design: Mixed Methods.



Triangulation





Summary
The dominant research paradigm for much of the twentieth century
                                    was positivism, but, today, at least in the social sciences,
                                    this has been largely replaced by anti-positivist or
                                    post-positivist stances such as interpretivism.Through the inductive approach, data are accumulated and
                                    analysed to see if relationships emerge between variables. The
                                    deductive approach uses a theory to generate a working
                                    hypothesis concerning relationships between variables. The
                                    hypothesis is operationalized and tested and is either accepted
                                    or rejected on the basis of the evidence.The inductive and deductive methods are not mutually exclusive.
                                    A researcher may turn a collection of data into a set of
                                    concepts, models or even theories (inductive approach) which are
                                    then tested through experimentation (deductive).Approaches to research include both truth-seeking and
                                    perspective-seeking methods. Truth-seeking methods tend to adopt
                                    more experimental or quasi-experimental approaches.
                                    Perspective-seeking methods tend to be more interpretivist (for
                                    example, phenomenological) and to generate qualitative data.
                                    These relationships should be treated as tendencies rather than
                                    as laws.Selecting approaches to research involves adopting a research
                                    philosophy, and an appropriate research approach and
                                    methodology. In practice, research often necessitates the use of
                                    multiple methods to achieve triangulation.

Review Questions
Can we ever conduct research without having first
                                        established our epistemological position?Positivism has been described as 'one of the heroic
                                        failures of modern philosophy'. Do you agree with
                                        this statement?Why is reflexivity often associated with feminist
                                        theoretical perspectives? Should it be associated with all
                                        perspectives?We can mix data collection methods in the same study (for
                                        example, surveys plus interviews), but is it ever acceptable
                                        to mix epistemological positions?



Further Reading
Crotty, M. (1998) The Foundation of Social Research: Meaning and
                                Perspectives in the Research Process. London: Sage. Provides a
                            very readable description and explanation of the major epistemological
                            stances and how they originated.
Paul, J. (2004) Introduction
                                to the Philosophies of Research and Criticism in Education and the
                                Social Sciences. London: Prentice Hall. A comprehensive book
                            that deals with nine alternative philosophies of research including
                            postmodernism, constructivism, interpretivism and
                            post-structuralism.
Reinharz, S. (1992) Feminist Methods in Social Research. New York:
                            Oxford University Press. Covers approaches such as ethnography, survey
                            research, experimental research, case studies and action research, all
                            from a feminist perspective.
Scheurich, J.J. (1997) Research Methods in the Postmodern. London:
                            Falmer. Provides an introduction to how postmodernism can be applied to
                            critiquing a wide range of approaches to research, and describes the
                            implications of postmodernism for practice.


Journal Resources
Easton, G. (1995) 'Case research as a methodology for industrial
                            networks: A realist apologia', in P.W. Turnbull, D. Yorke and P.
                            Naudé. IMP Conference (11th): Interaction, Relationships and
                                Networks: Past - Present - Future; 7-9
                            September, Manchester Federal School of Business and Management,
                            Manchester. Describes four different epistemological orientations;
                            positivism, constructivism, conventionalism and realism, arguing that
                            only realism has properties which ensure a match with the particular
                            characteristics of case study research.
Schmierback, M. (2005) 'Method matters: The influence of
                            methodology on journalists' assessments of social science
                            research', Science Communication, 26(3): 269-287.
                            Describes a study of journalists to determine whether the use of a
                            quantitative or qualitative approach to research influences their
                            judgement as to the quality of a study. It does!
Wynn, Jr. D. and Williams, C.K. (2012) 'Principles for conducting
                            critical realist case study research in information systems',
                                MIS Quarterly, 36( 3): 787-810. Shows how critical
                            realism can be applied to research methodologies. Although the focus is
                            information systems, the analysis is of general applicability.

Don't forget to visit the companion website at https://study.sagepub.com/grayresearchbusiness for the
                                following resources which support this chapter:

















3 Selecting And Planning Business
                        Research Proposals And Projects

Chapter Introduction

Chapter Outline
Selecting a research topicTopics to avoidPlanning the projectWriting academic proposalsWriting organizational proposalsThe final stages for academic and organizational
                                        proposals


Keywords
Research topicsAcademic proposalsOrganizational proposals


Icon Key






Chapter Objectives
After reading this chapter you will be able to:
Generate new ideas for research topics.Identify a good research topic using selected criteria.Identify which kinds of topics to avoid.Write an academic proposal for a research project.Write an organizational proposal.



Having read Chapters 1 and 2, you
                            should now have a clearer idea about the methodologies, approaches and
                            tools that are essential for the design and implementation of a good
                            research topic. The question remains, of course, what is a good
                            research topic? Generally, research projects can be designed as part of
                            an academic programme of study, or as a result of a business or
                            organizational need. While the former will probably require a stronger
                            element of theoretical underpinning, both will need a sharp, practical
                            focus or application. The outputs from research projects not only have
                            potential benefits for organizations and their management, they can also
                            be a vital element in personal learning and development. Clearly, the
                            best approach is to select a research topic that interests you, and one
                            that is likely to maintain your interest. The research process can be a
                            long and arduous one, so you need to be committed to your subject.
                            Winkler and McCuen (2007) suggest that you also need to select a subject
                            area that has sufficient scope to generate several research projects.
                            So, for example, investigating how a particular brand of laptops is
                            produced and shipped to a local retail outlet may not prove particularly
                            illuminating. On the other hand, a study of laptop component
                            international supply logistics may offer greater scope for the research
                            process (including products, processes and regions), the range of
                            literature to be consulted and the value of the research outcomes.



What Makes Good Research


If you find you have difficulty finding a research subject, then talk to
                            colleagues to see what sort of issues concern them. Discuss the matter
                            with your academic supervisor or line manager. Think back over your
                            course about which topics really interested you and how the themes here
                            could be developed. Other useful sources are professional journals and
                            magazines that often contain articles on issues that are currently
                            engaging the minds of business, commerce, public sector and voluntary
                            organizations. You might also browse through the relevant sections of
                            your local bookshop to see what kinds of titles are being published in
                            your areas of interest. Some more practical suggestions for generating
                            ideas are given in this chapter. advice is also given on how to select a
                            research topic and on how to write a successful proposal for your
                            research. It also suggests how you can plan a schedule for conducting
                            your research and how you should carry out the project, not only
                            efficiently, but ethically.


Selecting A Research Topic
You may already have a research topic in mind and hence want to use this
                            section as a means of checking its validity. Alternatively, you may have
                            been commissioned by your organization to undertake a specific piece of research. In the latter
                            case, do not feel that you should be a passive recipient of such
                            projects. Make use of the criteria in this section to evaluate and
                            renegotiate the focus of your project if you feel that this is
                            necessary.

When To Select A Research Topic
Obviously, this is going to be a matter of individual choice. Some
                                researchers have a very clear idea and focus at an early stage.
                                Indeed, they may have embarked on a programme of study precisely
                                because they want to tackle a specific end project. For others, and
                                probably the majority, a research topic emerges only towards the end
                                of the study programme, or as a result of an emerging problem in the
                                workplace. For some, the problem may be making a choice between a
                                number of potential topics; for others, there may be only one
                                focus.


Sources Of Research Topics
There are, essentially, two ways of identifying a research topic. One
                                is through the literature - books, and academic and
                                professional journals - which may raise interesting themes
                                and topics that can be related to your own interests. The other
                                route is directly from the workplace or business setting. Line
                                managers, supervisors or project teams may all require assistance,
                                and this can often be a fruitful source of research focus. In
                                effect, the researcher then acts as a kind of internal consultant to
                                a project team.



Example of Topic Selection Tool




What Is A Good Research Topic?
Whatever topic you choose, it is likely that you will begin to
                                develop or enhance a range of personal skills. A good topic, then,
                                is one that gives you free rein to maximize this self-development.
                                Jankowicz (2004) argues that such personal development might
                                include:
Improving personal time management.Gaining access to respondents.Interviewing respondents.Speaking to an audience.Persuading people to cooperate.Dealing with uncertainty about data.



Delivering a Successful Research
                                        Project


But it must also be a subject that interests you. Since research may
                                involve many hours of planning, execution, data analysis and report
                                writing, you will quickly tire of any topic that you thought was
                                only moderately interesting at the outset. It is also a good idea to
                                choose a subject that allows you to demonstrate your skills and
                                abilities. Hence, if, say, you are undertaking a project at the end
                                of an academic programme, you will need to select a subject that
                                gives you scope for showing the integration of various fields of
                                knowledge and analysis. For example, say you want to evaluate the
                                effectiveness of an organization's diversity policy, the aim
                                of which is to promote more gender equality and less
                                discrimination.This provides you with an opportunity to integrate a
                                knowledge of policy evaluation and the diversity and discrimination
                                literature. Conversely, just presenting data on gender imbalance
                                amongst a company's senior positions, while highlighting the
                                problem, would remain largely at a limited and descriptive
                                level.
Within the workplace, being able to demonstrate the skills of
                                planning, data analysis and report writing can enhance your prestige
                                and even promotional opportunities.


Meeting Academic Requirements
You must ensure that the research subject is capable of meeting
                                    academic requirements if you are undertaking a programme of
                                    study - for example, it is capable of generating a
                                    dissertation, thesis or report of sufficient length. As Raimond
                                    (1993) suggests, also be sure that your topic is capable of
                                    being linked to the appropriate academic theory. Management
                                    theory, for example, tends to evolve and change quite quickly
                                    - for example, there are countless theories of leadership
                                    with new ones being coined each year. It is bad practice to rely
                                    entirely on textbooks, since they can take years to write and
                                    are often out of date by the time they are published. Your
                                    research should also incorporate the use of academic journals
                                    (many of which are now online), which tend to be more topical.
                                    Academic journals also include reports on empirical studies from
                                    which you can glean a greater understanding of research
                                    methodologies and tools.


Top Tip 3.1
Before writing an academic dissertation or thesis, check
                                            out the university's guidelines. Look in
                                            particular at requirements for length. Also pay close
                                            attention to marking schemes and how marks are
                                            distributed for different elements such as descriptions
                                            of the literature, methodology and analysis.




Gaining Access
You will need access to relevant information, material and data.
                                    If you select an issue where these are lacking, you have little
                                    chance of completing the project.
Can you gain access? Remember that some issues in
                                            organizations are sensitive or confidential, for
                                            example, some financial data (such as pay scales),
                                            redundancy plans, legal records (for example,
                                            intellectual property rights), etc. Indeed, Flick (2009)
                                            warns that a research project is an intrusion into the
                                            life of an institution and is inherently unsettling for
                                            it.Can you minimize disruption? Apart from written or
                                            Web-based information, one of the essential elements of
                                            research is access to people. Who will you need to meet
                                            (perhaps to interview) and how busy are they? A classic
                                            contradiction is that the more important your project
                                            (to the organization), the more likely it is that the
                                            people you need to see are senior in the organization,
                                            and too busy to spare the time to be interviewed. The
                                            challenge is to gain access to these people despite this
                                            by being flexible and offering a range of interview
                                            dates/times.



Due Diligence in the Working
                                            World



Employability Skill 3.1

Using Diplomacy To Negotiate Access



Diplomacy in Business


In organizational settings, the researcher may be seen as
                                            an intruder or outsider. Gaining access will be
                                            facilitated, however, if you can use someone who is
                                            respected by the organization who can act as a
                                            gatekeeper. But once you have located this person, you
                                            will need to use all your tact, diplomacy and
                                            negotiating skills to gain access. While being honest,
                                            use persuasion to put across what the organization might
                                            gain from allowing you in (see Top Tip 3.2).




Thankfully, new phenomena
                                    such as social media (and particularly LinkedIn) can help here.
                                    If you do not have your own direct access into an organization,
                                    many businesses have their own LinkedIn website. You can locate
                                    people (and their job titles) and contact them using what
                                    LinkedIn call 'InMail'. However, you will have to
                                    join one of the Premium Accounts and pay a fee for this. The
                                    protocols for doing this are just as important (indeed, more
                                    important) as when you are using your own contacts - see
                                        Top Tip 3.2 below.

Top Tip 3.2
Gaining access will be made easier if you:
Get sponsorship/support as high up the organization
                                                setting as possible.Be clear and transparent about the aims and focus of
                                                the research.Keep the aims of the research coherent and bounded.
                                                Do not give the impression that you are about to
                                                'hunt around' for any interesting fact
                                                that might emerge.Be clear about the research methodology (e.g.,
                                                number of interviews and with whom) so the potential
                                                level of disruption is known.Make clear what the organization might gain from
                                                allowing you access. Typically, this might be a copy
                                                of your research or a summary.Demonstrate how confidentiality is going to be
                                                kept.Above all, make sure that any communication you send
                                                is accurate and contains no errors of grammar or
                                                fact. Even the slightest mistake creates a very bad
                                                impression and will almost certainly reduce your
                                                chances of gaining sponsorship.


Employability Skill 3.2

Having An Alternative Strategy For Choice
                                            Of Research Project
Gaining sponsorship for a project within an organization
                                            can take time.Furthermore, at the end of a long
                                            discussion process, the organization may decide not to
                                            allow you access. It is essential, then, to be flexible
                                            and always have an alternative plan (even if it's
                                            not as appealing as the first).




Getting Sponsorship And Using Networks
It helps if you have a sponsor or client who can give you either
                                    financial backing, or at least moral or practical support. The
                                    latter might involve 'opening doors' in the
                                    organization and facilitating your access to people with
                                    information. Figure 3.1 shows the kind of
                                    networks that may exist, or which you may request are
                                    established, to provide you with assistance. Note that not all
                                    elements of this network are necessarily connected. They all
                                    perform different roles, so you need to understand or negotiate
                                    what each can offer you.
Figure 3.1
                                        Organizational sponsorship and support networks

On The Web 3.1
Make a list of the support networks available to you. These
                                        might include online social networks such as LinkedIn. See
                                        the following Web link for a list of social networks
                                        available: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_social_networking_websites.



Networks for Business
                                                Professionals


Are they readily accessible? Are they sufficient?



Using The Time Available
Be sure that the research can be completed within the time
                                    available. There is always a tendency to underestimate the time
                                    needed for a project. However, note that there are texts on time
                                    management and project planning that can help you here. Further
                                    difficulties may arise if the topic chosen is dependent upon the
                                    implementation of another project within the organization. If
                                    this project becomes delayed (which is often the case), or
                                    abandoned, then your research project may quickly reach an
                                    impasse. For example, IT projects (particularly large ones) are
                                    notorious for going 'over time' as well as over
                                    budget. The best approach is to draw up a research plan before
                                    starting the project, with clear indications of dependencies and
                                    potential bottlenecks.


Considering Your Capabilities And Experience
This may seem obvious, but selecting an issue that is within your
                                    capabilities is essential. Your skills will, hopefully, develop
                                    during the course of the research process, but, say, choosing a
                                    topic that requires robust statistical skills when you are
                                    comfortable with only basic mathematics may be a recipe for
                                    disaster. Experience may be a different matter. As the Johari
                                    window in Figure 3.2 shows, you can
                                    choose projects that are congruent with both your work area and
                                    experience (the safe approach), or, moving towards the top-right
                                    side of the diagram, beyond both your work and current knowledge
                                    set. This poses greater risks, but also enhances opportunities
                                    for personal development. Moving the project into an unfamiliar
                                    work area may also provide opportunities for networking amongst
                                    new groups of people which can be advantageous for both the
                                    project and your own professional future (including your future
                                    as a researcher).



The Johari Window


Figure 3.2
                                        Johari window showing choices between familiar and
                                        unfamiliar work experience and personal knowledge

Activity 3.1
Take the project that you intend to do, or one or more
                                        projects that you are considering. Locate the position of
                                        the project(s) within the Johari window. How risky is the
                                        project, and are the risks worth taking? How
                                        'stretching' is the project and is such
                                        development a personal objective?



Reflecting On The Value Of The Project
Projects that have value to the organization (say, in terms of
                                    identifying cost savings, new marketing opportunities, IT
                                    strategies, etc.) will have a much greater chance of success
                                    than those that merely re-plough old ground. Innovative,
                                    provoking and original projects have a better chance of
                                    sponsorship and support from within the organization (at the
                                    appropriate level), of opening new networks for meeting and
                                    interviewing people, and of eventual implementation. Of course,
                                    innovative projects also bring with them the potential added
                                    bonus of higher academic grades. A high value project is also
                                    more likely to motivate both you and your line manager or
                                    sponsor. But ambitious projects may be more difficult to manage
                                    and complete. Sometimes, a more modest project may be both more
                                    feasible and achievable.



Achieving A Symmetry Of Potential Outcomes
Gill and Johnson (2002) suggest that one way of reducing the
                                    risks involved in a project is to achieve symmetry of potential
                                    outcomes. This means that, no matter what the results are, they
                                    will be useful. For example, a project to examine whether a
                                    company's e-commerce website produced any increase in
                                    overall sales would be significant whatever the outcome.
                                    Conversely, a project that examined the relationship between
                                    levels of stress and output levels amongst line workers would be
                                    interesting if strong correlations were found, but would be of
                                    little value if they were not.

Employability Skill 3.3

Linking Research Topics To Career
                                            Goals



Linking Research and Career
                                                  Goals


You may consider whether the research topic may be of
                                            value to you in the future in terms of your personal
                                            career development. The research may make you an
                                            'expert' in a particular subject or area,
                                            and enhance your value as an internal consultant or help
                                            you in applying for a particular post. For example,
                                            completing a research project in performance-related pay
                                            can make you attractive to a human resource department.
                                            Research can also be cumulative. A good undergraduate
                                            dissertation can lead on to a Master's degree; in
                                            turn, a Master's dissertation can form the basis
                                            for a future PhD. Academic qualifications can enhance
                                            employability, particularly if the research is seen as
                                            having some practical application to employers.





Generating Research Ideas
If you are devoid of ideas for a topic, how can you create some
                                imaginative ones? Table 3.1 suggests that new
                                ideas can be generated either through rational or creative
                                processes. Let us look at each of these in turn.

Examining Your Own Strengths And Weaknesses
You will benefit from choosing a topic that you enjoy and for
                                    which you have probably received good marks for previous
                                    assignments and other course assessments, or positive feedback
                                    from a work-based project. Why not make a list of your strengths
                                    and weaknesses. Get a friend or colleague to critique the list
                                    (prepare yourself for a shock!), then amend it as necessary.


Source: Adapted from
                                        Saunders, Lewis and Thornhill, Research Methods for
                                            Business Students, 6th edn. Reprinted by permission
                                        of Pearson Education Ltd © 2012




Looking At Past Projects
This is often a useful way of generating new ideas. A glance
                                    towards the end of some projects may reveal a section entitled
                                    'Suggestions for future research' that may be
                                    helpful. There may also be a bibliography which could prove a
                                    useful starting point for your own research - although
                                    take care that the references are not too dated. Also note that
                                    some universities and colleges place all theses and
                                    dissertations in the library. Their presence there, then, is not
                                    a necessary guide to their quality.


Searching The Literature
The literature includes articles in the academic journals,
                                    reports, books and websites (although be wary of the
                                    authenticity and quality of the latter). Becoming aware through
                                    the literature of the significance of some issues, or new angles
                                    on old ones, can be a stimulus to undertake research in how
                                    these ideas can affect your own organization. More detail on
                                    reviewing the literature is provided later in this chapter.


Gaining Ideas Through Discussion
Ideas might be generated by talking to fellow students, work
                                    colleagues, line managers, university tutors, practitioners and
                                    professional networks (the latter, possibly, through online
                                    discussion groups).


Brainstorming
This is a well-known problem-solving technique for generating and
                                    refining ideas. Jarvis (1995) suggests that the quantity of
                                    ideas produced by the brainstorming group is more important than
                                    the quality. All points made by participants are recorded (for
                                    example, on a flipchart) over a mutually agreed period of time.
                                    No member of the group may criticize the ideas of another,
                                    irrespective of how ridiculous some ideas may sound, since this
                                    would inhibit discussion. At the end of the agreed time period,
                                    the group discusses and selects from the points raised.
Image 3.1
                                        A group brainstorming using a flipchart© iStock.com /
                                        gpointstudio



Exploring Personal Preferences Using Past
                                    Projects
Here, you simply take a look at the subjects you have chosen for
                                    previous modules, programmes or work projects, and identify the
                                    kinds of topic areas you have selected. This may be a guide to
                                    what you are generally interested in.


Relevance Trees
This is similar to mind mapping, where you start with a broad
                                    concept from which you generate more specific topics. From each
                                    of these branches, new sub-branches can be generated. Do this
                                    quickly (say, in no more than 10 minutes) with an emphasis on
                                    generating ideas rather than evaluating them for quality. Once
                                    the process is finished, look over your material and evaluate
                                    the results.



Relevance Trees




Keeping A Notebook Of Ideas
This simply involves noting down any new ideas as and when they
                                    occur. It is best to keep the notebook with you at all times.
                                    This could be a section in a research log book (see Managing
                                    information, Chapter 5, p. 119).


Swot Analysis
SWOT stands for Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats.
                                    Using this well-known method, you could make a list of ideas
                                    under each of these categories. For example, if you work in a
                                    retail store, a strength of this position might be that you have
                                    access to the shop as a case study. A weakness might that the
                                    store is small, representing only a single case (when you might
                                    need more). The opportunity might be the potential for using the
                                    results of the study to implement practical improvements in the
                                    store. The threat might be bias, because you are researching a
                                    site about which you are committed and passionate. Can you stand
                                    back and act objectively as a researcher? Undertaking this kind
                                    of SWOT analysis usually works best, however, when undertaken by
                                    a group since good ideas tend to generate others.



SWOT Analysis Framework



Activity 3.2
Go to Google Scholar at

http://scholar.google.co.uk/

Type in a theme that might be of interest to you, for
                                        example, 'franchising'. If you also add the
                                        letters 'pdf' the hits will include documents
                                        such as research articles and reports, some of which can be
                                        downloaded immediately. Even if you can't always
                                        download the documents directly, the hits will indicate what
                                        articles are available and in which academic journals.
                                        Providing you have access to the appropriate electronic
                                        database, you can then access the article.






Topics To Avoid
It is often only possible in retrospect to recognize the topic you should
                            not even have attempted! However, here are a few hints that may help you
                            to avoid the research disaster. The topics to avoid are those that
                            are:
Too big. For example, 'Human resource management
                                    - innovative international perspectives'. Some
                                    very large projects can be worthy and valuable to an
                                    organization, but you need to ask yourself whether you have the
                                    time, experience and resources to complete them. The human
                                    resource management theme, for example, would be more feasible
                                    if, instead of 'international perspectives', which
                                    imply a global focus, you contrasted, say, two countries. Even
                                    this would be an enormous task involving national surveys and
                                    large samples. More feasible would be to contrast human resource
                                    management perspectives between two groups of companies, each
                                    group being representative of a different approach. Winkler and
                                    McCuen (2007) also warn that the big topic is also the most
                                    difficult to write about: it is difficult knowing where to
                                    begin, and omissions and oversights are more crudely
                                    exposed.Too trivial. This may seem rather subjective, but you
                                    should use your common sense to evaluate the kinds of projects
                                    that are worth doing and those that are not. As a general rule
                                    of thumb try using the 'So what?' test. Ask
                                    yourself whether, after completing the research, the results
                                    will have any meaning or significance (to others not just to
                                    yourself). For example, a research project that surveyed how to
                                    reduce the use of paper in a marketing department of 10 people
                                    would yield very little of value. On the other hand, a project
                                    that took the issue of recycling (paper, printer cartridges,
                                    furniture, computers, etc.) across an organization could have
                                    considerable scope and link into the broader environmental
                                    debate.Lacking in resource materials and people. Look out for
                                    warning signs - very few references to the topic in the
                                    main textbooks, practitioner journals or other refereed journals
                                    or websites. If the project is going to rely on access to
                                    in-house knowledge experts, make sure that they are both
                                    available and willing to cooperate with you. This, of course,
                                    needs to be planned well in advance. If undertaking an academic
                                    thesis or dissertation, it may be particularly important that
                                    human as well as text-based resources are accessible. Often it
                                    is necessary to gain access to an organization as part of a case
                                    study or to gain access to respondents. Here it is vital to get
                                    the commitment or sponsorship of key people such as directors,
                                    senior managers or the leaders of networks or groups at an early
                                    stage.

Top Tip 3.3
When focusing an academic dissertation on one or a limited number of
                                organizations, conduct the negotiations for access in parallel with
                                your literature search; don't leave it until the literature
                                search is finished. If access becomes problematic, this still gives
                                you time to find another organization, which may want you to focus
                                on a different subject area.



Too technical. Some projects are more concerned with
                                    solving highly technical problems rather than organizational or
                                    social research. Leave these to the technical gurus. Often these
                                    kinds of highly technical projects also turn out to be
                                    intractable. You may be offered a problem that nobody else has
                                    been able to solve. Be highly suspicious of this kind of gift!
                                    Ask yourself: 'Why me?' It may be an offer you
                                    need to refuse.Dependent on the completion of another project. Even if
                                    you are 'guaranteed' that projects you hope to use
                                    as data sources will be completed in time for your use, you are
                                    strongly advised not to make your own project dependent on them.
                                    If slippage occurs, your own research will be held up or even
                                    scrapped. This is particularly the case when negotiating access
                                    to an external organization. If you get the slightest hint that
                                    your research will be dependent on the completion of, say, an
                                    ongoing study, pull out. As an outsider you have no influence or
                                    control over the organization's timescales, in
                                    circumstances when your own timescales (for completing your
                                    dissertation) may be tight.Unethical. Avoid taking on projects that can damage other
                                    people physically, emotionally or intellectually. Refuse to take
                                    on a project that forces you to breach confidentiality or trust.
                                    When using interviews, observation or surveys, you will need to
                                    pay particular attention to politically sensitive issues such as
                                    power relationships, race, gender and the disclosure of personal
                                    information. Ethics are discussed in more detail at the end of
                                    this chapter, in Chapter 4 and elsewhere in
                                    this book.

Case Study 3.1

Identifying A Theme For Research
Marion has reached the final stage of her part-time MSc programme
                                    and has decided that she wants to do her dissertation on
                                    'leadership'. She meets with her academic
                                    supervisor and tells her that this is going to be her topic, but
                                    is surprised by her supervisor's reaction -
                                    laughter. Her supervisor advises her that the subject of
                                    'leadership' is somewhat large and unwieldy. She
                                    should try to identify more of a focus. Marion goes away and
                                    talks to her line manager at work - she is a project
                                    manager in a bank - and to some of her fellow students.
                                    She has always been concerned by what she perceives to be a lack
                                    of promotion of women into leadership positions in the finance
                                    sector. She therefore conceives of her research project as:
                                    'Women and leadership: are there glass ceilings in the
                                    modern banking sector?' This subject has the double bonus
                                    of not only being relevant to her academic institution but also
                                    to her organization and the development of its equal
                                    opportunities policy. (For how this theme is converted into a
                                    Proposal, see Case Study 3.2.)



Activity 3.3
Consider each of the following 'big' topics and
                                formulate a more focused, narrower research project from each of
                                them:
Communication in the workplace.Mergers and acquisitions.Health and safety.Corporate social responsibility.Equal employment legislation.




Planning The Project
It may seem obvious that all research projects should be carefully
                            planned, but it is surprising how many researchers rush forward into
                            data collection without a plan of campaign. Disaster is the inevitable
                            result. Planning also helps with time management, one of the greatest
                            problems when work and research commitments compete. There are many ways
                            of planning a project and presenting the plan. One technique is to make
                            use of a table, which sets out the tasks and the planned dates for their
                            completion. A better approach is through the use of a Gantt chart (see
                                Figure 3.3) through which you not
                            only specify tasks but whether they are going to be completed in
                            sequence or in parallel. Project management software such as
                                Microsoft Project not only generates various graphics such as
                            Gantt charts, but also allows you to specify timescales for the
                            completion of each task. However, it is probably only worth the
                            investment in time learning the program if your project is a large and
                            complex one.
Figure 3.3 Example
                                of project planning using a Gantt chart


Writing Academic Proposals
A research proposal is described by Punch (2006) as a document that deals
                            with issues such as:
The proposed subject of the research.What the research intends to achieve.The methods by which the research will be conducted.What will be learned from the research and why it is worth
                                    doing.



Top Tip: Writing Research Proposals





Writing a Research Proposal


Since a research proposal can
                            only be constructed through a detailed process of planning and design,
                            it almost goes without saying that a proposal has to be developed
                            through a process of research. Indeed, Punch (2006) contends that the
                            research proposal is just as important as the research project that
                            comes after it. Even if the boundaries of the intended research are
                            blurred and the research inductive and emergent, the proposal should
                            still be distinct and concise in terms of what is intended and how the
                            research is to be carried out.



Before you even think about
                            writing a proposal, you need to identify an appropriate academic
                            institution in which to study and a supervisor from that institution.
                            Locating a suitable institution may be simply a matter of applying to
                            one that is most convenient to where you live or work. But it pays to be
                            more discriminating than this, because you will be needing somewhere
                            with good resources (particularly in your subject area) and a supervisor
                            who is an expert in your field of study (if you know what that subject
                            area is at this stage) and who is actively publishing in this field.
                            Also find out whether the institution has an active research community
                            of both academics and postgraduate students. Possession of such a
                            community means that the institution sees research as one of its
                            priorities. It is also more likely to recruit some of the better
                            research academics. Being a member of an active research community will
                            help you to discuss academic and research issues with your fellow
                            researchers. As Locke et al. (2013) put it, working knowledge is not in
                            college libraries; it takes the form of unpublished academic papers,
                            conference speeches, seminars and email communications.
The structure of proposals is normally set out by the academic
                            institution in which you will be studying, so it is important that you
                            follow the specifications you are given. However, the following sections
                            provide you with a typical structure and guidance on what to write. In
                            writing a proposal it is important not to use unnecessarily technical or
                            obscure language and to write in a style that is fluent, clear and
                            accessible. The use of extensive quotes should be avoided and, as a
                            general rule, the first paragraph should be completely free of
                            citations. An example of a typical structure for an academic proposal is
                            given in Table 3.2. The themes presented in
                            the table are discussed below.

Working Title
This is a 'working' title because you may decide to
                                change it once you come to write your final thesis or dissertation.
                                The title describes the breadth and depth of the topic and can often
                                give an indication of the methodology to be used. For example:
                                'Employee commitment during organizational change - a
                                case study in the public sector', or 'Crowd funding:
                                should the banks be worried?'. Ensure that the working title
                                is phrased grammatically and would provide a non-expert with a clear
                                notion of what your research is about. If you are unsure, get your
                                title reviewed by your supervisor or by a friend or colleague.


Introduction
The Introduction provides a summary of the research topic, describing
                                the core problems or constructs, and how the research will
                                address them. One of the most common weaknesses in introducing
                                research is to make a series of sweeping generalizations without
                                coming to the central point. It is usually simpler to write the
                                Introduction once you have finished composing the remainder of the
                                proposal, and you know the direction the research is taking. Avoid
                                making the Introduction too long and detailed. It should not, for
                                example, contain a comprehensive description or analysis of models
                                or theories, as these should be discussed in the Review of the
                                Literature.


Aims
The aims are general statements on the intent and direction of the
                                research. So, for example, the aim of a project might be to:
                                'Identify the factors that influence the decisions of
                                shoppers to buy online'. Aims describe the purpose of the
                                research. They do not describe research outputs (such as reports,
                                documents or policy statements) or research questions which are more
                                focused.



Objectives
While the aims are general statements, the objectives are clear
                                statements of intended outcomes, all of which can be measured in
                                some way.


Justification
This is a rationale for the research with reference to the current
                                gaps in knowledge, and potential application of the results. The
                                justification attempts to persuade the reader that, not only does
                                the investigation merit attention, but that the nature of the
                                problem has been correctly identified. This is not the place to
                                launch into a lengthy and detailed analysis of the problem, a
                                description of core theories or models, or to discuss the
                                methodology of how the issue will be researched as this comes later
                                in the proposal. At this stage, the justification needs to be direct
                                and succinct.


Review Of The Literature
According to Boote and Beile (2005) a substantive and thorough
                                literature review is a precondition for doing substantive and
                                thorough, sophisticated research. In order to advance our collective
                                knowledge, a researcher has to understand what has gone before. The
                                literature review, therefore, describes the history of the topic and
                                key literature sources, illustrating major issues and refining the
                                focus of the research in a way that can ultimately lead to one or
                                more research questions. We will explore the purpose and outputs
                                from a literature review in more detail in Chapter
                                    5. Suffice it to say here, the literature review must cover
                                the main sources in the field, or closely related fields of study.
                                One of the simplest ways of ensuring that your coverage is
                                comprehensive is to make use of your supervisor who should be able
                                to point you to what sources and theories are essential. However,
                                this is only a research proposal. You would not be expected to have
                                completed an entire literature review at this stage, as this is what
                                you will do when you are actually working on your thesis or
                                dissertation. The purpose of the proposal literature review is to
                                explain the choices of literature made for the study, and this can
                                be successfully done in a succinct manner. The purpose of the
                                literature review, then, is to:
Demonstrate the key theories, arguments and controversies in
                                        the field.Highlight the ways in which the research area has been
                                        investigated to date.Identify inconsistencies and gaps in knowledge that are
                                        worthy of further investigation.
Punch (2006) suggests three guiding questions for identifying the
                                appropriate literature for a research study.

What Literature Is Relevant To The Project?
In answering this it is important to remember:
For some subject areas, the volume of literature will be
                                            extensive, but for others, relatively limited.One subject area may have more than one body of
                                            literature associated with it (including both
                                            theoretical literature and empirical studies).Some literature will be central to a study and other
                                            literature quite peripheral (but the latter might still
                                            be worth discussing).



What Is The Relationship Of The Proposed Study To
                                    Its Research Literature?
In particular, this means showing how the proposed study moves
                                    beyond what is already known. This might mean taking some main
                                    trends in the literature but extending them; confirming or
                                    challenging current findings; or researching an accepted theory
                                    but in a new field. Figure 3.4 illustrates a
                                    common (and erroneous) way of approaching this, represented by
                                    a). Here the researcher presents a chunk of literature and then
                                    a methodology chapter but with little, if any, relationship
                                    between the two. A far better approach is adopted in b). Here
                                    the literature review leads, logically and clearly to a set of
                                    research questions that are set out clearly (see Research
                                    questions and hypotheses, below). However, these questions
                                    should not appear 'out of the blue'. Far better is
                                    to signpost the themes and issues from the literature that are
                                    relevant to the proposed research study, as the literature is
                                    described. By the time the reader comes to the actual research
                                    questions, they should be able to say to themselves:
                                    'Yes, this is what I expected the focus of the research
                                    to be'. The Methodology chapter then sets out the
                                    research design for tackling the research questions. Of course,
                                    this approach should not just be contained in the proposal, but
                                    also in writing up the research study itself.
Figure 3.4
                                        Linking the literature and methodology via research
                                        questions
Let us take an example. Suppose you were researching the
                                    subjective experiences of newly recruited senior managers,
                                    including their levels of confidence, motivation and intention
                                    to continue in the business. In describing the literature and
                                    various research studies already completed in this field, at the
                                    end of, say, a section on the 'onboarding' of new
                                    managers, you might explicitly state: 'So, as we have
                                    seen, levels of initial confidence are subject to varying levels
                                    of doubt and uncertainty, often linked to critical incidents in
                                    the boardroom. Measuring the linkages between senior management
                                    confidence and such critical incidents will be a focus of the
                                    current study. In doing this, use will be made of a survey of
                                    FTSE-100 companies, followed by ten in-depth case
                                    studies.'


How Will The Proposed Study Use The
                                    Literature?
As far as the proposal is concerned, there are a range of
                                    approaches that might be adopted, including:
A review of the entire relevant literature (probably the
                                            least likely option given the scale of work
                                            involved).A clear statement and justification for not reviewing
                                            the literature at this stage, since the study is
                                            inductive. The relevant literature will be reviewed as
                                            and when the data are collected and analysed.A review that includes a sample of the literature or the
                                            main themes in the review, supported by the relevant
                                            literature.
The literature search needs to be much more than merely a series
                                    of descriptions of what the major 'authorities' in
                                    the field have said. Above all, it must avoid what Boote and
                                    Beile claim is often merely 'disjointed summaries of a
                                    haphazard collection of literature' (2005: 9). There
                                    must, at the very heart of the review, be the development of a
                                    research problem or series of problems worthy and capable of
                                    being researched. It is the statement of the research problem
                                    that can then be converted into a specific research question
                                    (see next section).

Top Tip 3.4
Students often say, 'I know what my research subject
                                        is, but I don't think that there is a body of
                                        literature associated with it!' This is never true.
                                        There is always a body of literature associated either
                                        directly or indirectly with a subject, the challenge is
                                        identifying it. If your topic is quite specialized, or one
                                        where there have been few, if any, studies, you may need to
                                        locate a body of literature that relates to it at a more
                                        abstract or theoretical level.




Research Questions And Hypotheses
As we have just seen, the literature review should lead the reader to
                                one or more research questions. Hence, there needs to be a tight
                                connection between the literature reviewed and the research study
                                that follows. The connection between the two is the formulation of
                                research questions and/or hypotheses.

Research Questions
All proposals must contain a formal statement of questions which
                                    must be researchable and explicit. As O'Leary (2014)
                                    points out, research questions help to:
Define an investigation, i.e., whether its purpose is to
                                            discover, explore, explain or compare, and the kinds of
                                            relationship foreseen between concepts (such as
                                            correlations or one concept causing another).Establish boundaries for the research. In studying
                                            peripheral topics, it then becomes possible to ask:
                                            'Does this answer my research question?'
                                            If the answer is: 'No, but I now see it as being
                                            important,' then it will become necessary to
                                            modify or completely rewrite the research question.
                                            Thus, we see that research questions are not 'set
                                            in stone' but are often modified during the
                                            research process.Provide direction, pointing to the theories that are
                                            pertinent, the literature that is relevant to the study
                                            and the kinds of research methodologies required. At
                                            least for deductive approaches it is impossible to
                                            select a research methodology without first having a
                                            clearly articulated research question.
One of the challenges
                                    researchers face is that topics are broad but research questions
                                    definitive and narrow. How do we move from the general to the
                                    specific? O'Leary (2014) suggests finding an
                                    'angle' on the topic. For example, taking a topic
                                    but looking at what contemporary commentators are saying about
                                    it, or what 'hot issues' are generating argument
                                    and debate. Another obvious angle is if you identify a gap in
                                    the literature where a theme has been ignored or where a
                                    researcher has recommended further themes worthy of research at
                                    the end of an article.
The next stage is to write a research question that is concise
                                    and unambiguous. This, however, is easier said than done. It is
                                    astonishing how difficult most students find the formulation of
                                    research questions. Even when they have identified a focus for
                                    their research, locating one or more researchable questions
                                    seems to pose a Herculean task. Just as problematic are those
                                    novice researchers who write a set of vague aims or intentions
                                    then claim they have written their research questions!

Top Tip 3.5
Consider the question: 'Is alcohol abuse at work a
                                        problem?' This question needs a considerable amount
                                        of reworking and clarification. What is meant by
                                        'abuse'? A problem for whom - the
                                        individual or the company or both? It is also prudent to
                                        avoid questions that you have an emotional connection with.
                                        In the case of the alcohol abuse question, a researcher who
                                        grew up in a family where the parents had a serious alcohol
                                        dependency may have difficulty in formulating a neutral,
                                        unbiased question. Questions also need to be achievable in
                                        terms of the time you have available, and your potential
                                        access to respondents. They also need to be ethical (see Chapter 4).



As we saw in Chapter 2, approaches to
                                    research include exploratory, descriptive, explanatory and
                                    interpretive studies. Given their distinctive approaches to
                                    research, it follows that the kinds of research questions asked
                                    will be quite different. Table
                                        3.3 provides some examples of specific questions using
                                    the subject of alcohol consumption as a focus.
It is worth noting that not all researchers would accept that the
                                    formulation of research questions is actually necessary. Some
                                    qualitative researchers argue that their approach is so
                                    inductive and emergent that the application of research
                                    questions is not only superfluous but inappropriate. Most
                                    qualitative researchers, however, are prepared to formulate
                                    research questions, even if they regard these as tentative and
                                    subject to change during the research process.


Hypotheses
Locke et al. (2013) point out that when the research is largely
                                    exploratory or for qualitative studies, it may be sufficient to
                                    formulate a question rather than a hypothesis. Indeed, for
                                    purely qualitative research a hypothesis would not be
                                    appropriate. In all other cases, however, and particularly in
                                    quantitative studies, hypotheses are necessary. Hypotheses are
                                    used when existing knowledge and theory allows for predictions
                                    to be made about a relationship between variables.




A hypothesis describes a research question in a testable format
                                    which predicts the nature of the answer. A hypothesis can also
                                    be written as a null statement such as 'There is no
                                    difference between x and y', or as a directional
                                    statement such as, 'When this happens, then that
                                    happens' (positive), or 'When this, then not
                                    that' (negative). As Locke et al. (2013) suggest, the use
                                    of directionality in hypotheses allows for the use of more
                                    powerful statistical tests. Punch (2006) suggests that, in
                                    determining whether a hypothesis is appropriate, a researcher
                                    needs to reflect on the following questions:
For each research question, is it possible to predict,
                                            in advance of the research, what findings will
                                            emerge?Is the basis for this prediction a rationale, a set of
                                            propositions, or a 'theory' which explains
                                            the hypothesis?
If the answer to both these questions is, 'Yes'
                                    then Punch (2006) argues that a hypothesis should be formulated.
                                    Otherwise, he advises that it is perfectly acceptable to work
                                    from a set of research questions. Researchers should not adopt a
                                    hypothesis just for the sake of it. For a more detailed
                                    description of hypotheses see Chapter 6.

Top Tip 3.6
Avoid the mistake often made by inexperienced researchers of
                                        making the hypothesis statement too long and complex.
                                        Several short, testable hypotheses are infinitely preferable
                                        to one, long, rambling one.




Methodology
The methodology section of the proposal sets out and justifies the
                                methodological approach and must be tightly related to the research
                                question identified above. It is likely that it is this section that will receive the most
                                attention from academics who will be scrutinizing and evaluating
                                your proposal, hence it is this section that requires the greatest
                                attention to detail and accuracy. You will need to follow the
                                guidelines of your own academic institution, but it is likely that
                                in most cases the methodology section will require a description
                                of:
The research methodology.The target population and sampling methods chosen.The data gathering instruments and techniques and the
                                        procedures for the collection and recording of data (for
                                        example, paper-based questionnaires, tape recorders, video
                                        recorders or digital cameras, etc.).The data analysis procedures to be used.How ethical issues are to be catered for.



Choosing a Method


One important issue the methodology section will need to address, is
                                whether the study is to be primarily quantitative, qualitative or
                                both. If, for example, some kind of intervention or experimental
                                design is planned, then it is likely that quantitative methods will
                                be adopted. On the other hand, if the project seeks to conduct an
                                ethnographic study which focuses on the meanings and interpretations
                                participants give within a particular cultural setting, then the
                                data are likely to be qualitative. In each of these examples, once
                                the decision is made to adopt a quantitative, qualitative or mixed
                                methods approach, then this will have a significant influence on the
                                choice of data gathering methods and approaches to data analysis.
                                Punch (2006) insists that it is therefore very important to revisit
                                the research questions and the way in which they are phrased, and to
                                ask oneself about what implications this has for research
                                design.

Research Methodology
Once a decision is made on whether to use quantitative,
                                    qualitative or a mixed approach, then this influences the
                                    research methodology to be adopted. Table
                                        3.4 suggests some common methodologies that are
                                    associated with each of these approaches. It needs to be
                                    stressed, however, that these are influences and not rules.
                                    Note, for example, that action research and evaluation appear in
                                    both columns, implying that these kinds of projects can adopt a
                                    largely quantitative or qualitative approach - or,
                                    indeed, a combination of the two. Recall some of the
                                    descriptions of these methodologies in Chapter
                                        2.


Sampling Strategies



But once an appropriate strategy has been adopted, it is then
                                    necessary to convert this into a research design. This means
                                    stating in clear terms exactly how and with whom the research is
                                        to be conducted.
                                    This, then, brings us onto sampling. Since it is rarely
                                    practical to involve data collection from everyone, it is
                                    necessary to select a sample. Sampling strategies for
                                    quantitative designs are discussed in detail in Chapter 6 and for
                                    qualitative designs in Chapter 7 and a complete chapter devoted to the
                                    principles and approaches to sampling in Chapter 9. The point to be made here is that sampling
                                    should not be considered merely as an afterthought, but should
                                    be planned as an integral part of the overall research design.
                                    The sampling strategy should include details on:
The size of the sample.The composition of the sample.How the sample will actually be chosen (e.g. randomly,
                                            through volunteers, etc.).
In some qualitative projects there will be no initial,
                                    pre-determined sample size - successive samples are
                                    accessed depending on what trends are emerging from the data
                                    analysis. But if this is the case, the choice of this strategy
                                    should be made explicit at the outset.

Top Tip 3.7
In quantitative studies, it is common for students to falsely
                                        claim (largely without thinking) that they have adopted a
                                        random, probability sampling approach. In other words, they
                                        hope that their chosen sample is representative of the
                                        entire population under study. Random probability
                                            sampling means adopting a selection approach whereby
                                        each member of the population has an equal chance of being
                                        selected for the sample. Yet, in the case of many student
                                        projects, an organization is chosen because it is convenient
                                        (for example, local) or the student knows someone who works
                                        there. Or an online survey is launched, in which case there
                                        is no control over who responds. So, look at the research
                                        methods literature (including this book!) on the various
                                        kinds of sampling techniques to identify the one you are
                                        using. Using non-probability sampling is not a sin
                                        - as long as you acknowledge the limitations that
                                        this sampling imposes on the claims you can make for your
                                        results.



Non-Probability Sampling





Data Collection Instruments
For quantitative approaches, data collection instruments include
                                    questionnaires, standardized measuring instruments (such as
                                    psychometric tests) and the kinds of observation schedules that
                                    involve counting the number of times an event or activity
                                    occurs. As Punch (2006) points out, an important decision here
                                    (which requires discussion and rationalization in the proposal),
                                    is whether to use existing standardized collection instruments
                                    or to design them specifically for the research. For
                                    pre-existing instruments details need to be provided of how and
                                    when they were developed, their use in other research projects
                                    (especially ones that are similar to your own, if possible) and
                                    how they have been validated. If developing new instruments,
                                    detailed descriptions need to be provided of how they have been
                                    piloted and validated.
Qualitative data gathering instruments could include
                                    questionnaires for a qualitative survey where the questions are
                                    open-ended, and qualitative interview or observation schedules.
                                    While it may be possible to make use of instruments that have
                                    already been developed, it is more likely that qualitative
                                    researchers will construct their own data collection
                                    instruments. Just like quantitative data collection instruments,
                                    it is important to describe how the instrument was constructed
                                    and validated. Apart from questionnaires, qualitative data
                                    gathering approaches also include the use of interview and
                                    observational schedules, documents, journals and diaries and
                                    non-written materials such as photographs and video
                                    recordings.
Whatever the data
                                    collection instrument (quantitative or qualitative), it is
                                    essential to describe in detail how it is going to be used. For
                                    example, if using a questionnaire, describe whether it is to be
                                    used face-to-face, distributed by post, or delivered online via
                                    the Internet. If using an interview schedule, describe where the
                                    interviews will take place and whether the interview is to be
                                    tape-recorded. In all cases where people are being asked to
                                    volunteer their views, a participant consent form (see Chapter 4, p. 89) should be
                                    signed and a copy of the form provided as an appendix to the
                                    proposal. In other words, imagine that a reader knows nothing
                                    about your study, and take them through what you plan to do,
                                    step by step. Apart from collecting data, you also need to
                                    provide details on how they will be securely stored.


Data Analysis
If dealing with quantitative data, then the analysis will involve
                                    the use of appropriate statistical techniques. The proposal
                                    should indicate which statistical tests will be applied. In the
                                    case of qualitative research, there are many more analytical
                                    approaches available, including grounded theory, template
                                    analysis, content analysis and discourse analysis. Again, even
                                    at this early stage, the research proposal should be able to
                                    state the choice of analytical approach.
Having chosen an analytical approach, it is not necessarily the
                                    case that the researcher would be expected to demonstrate
                                    in-depth knowledge and mastery of applying one of these
                                    approaches to data analysis. This will come later at the actual
                                    data analysis stage. What is important here is that you show how
                                    the analytical approach chosen is consistent with the general
                                    logic of the study and the kinds of research questions
                                    chosen.


Ethical Considerations
The important issue of ethics will be discussed in detail in Chapter 4 so will only be
                                    covered briefly here. The proposal should always seek to
                                    demonstrate how the study will abide by ethical principles. For
                                    example, it should show that respondents are giving their views
                                    voluntarily, that their privacy will be safeguarded and that the
                                    information they provide will be treated confidentially. The
                                    proposal should also make clear how the data are going to be
                                    stored securely so that the anonymity of respondents can be
                                    protected.



Work Schedule
This is a timetable for completing the research, indicating the tasks
                                to be undertaken and their dates for completion. Note that students
                                frequently underestimate the amount of time it takes to complete
                                these tasks, so be as realistic as you can when calculating how long
                                each task will take you.


References
It is best to get into good habits in using references at this early
                                stage. You may want to invest some time in learning to use one of
                                the bibliographic software packages such as Endnote or Reference
                                Manager to store and organize your references. Find out which
                                reference system is used by your academic institution (for example,
                                the Harvard system) and keep to it. Note the distinction between
                                References and Bibliography. The Reference section lists all the
                                sources that you have cited in your study. A Bibliography lists all
                                the main sources in the subject area under study, some of which you
                                may not have read. In most cases, it is a Reference section that is
                                needed in a proposal.



Limitations
No research is perfect, and it is important that researchers
                                themselves identify and are honest about the weaknesses and
                                limitations of their own research (otherwise readers such as
                                supervisors and examiners will be critical for them!). Typical
                                limitations, at least for quantitative studies, include an inability
                                to control factors in the study design such as the assignment of
                                members to experimental and control groups. All studies may suffer
                                from low sample sizes or problems in gaining access to key
                                respondents. What is important is that the implications of these
                                weaknesses are acknowledged (and not avoided or 'skated
                                over'), particularly on the validity and generalizability of
                                the results. If, for example, statistical analysis does not reach
                                significance, this itself is a finding. Of course, if the sample
                                size was only 30 then this might be the prime cause. So here again,
                                it would be prudent to acknowledge the limited size of the sample
                                contributing to the result. However, if, say, the study design also
                                included a qualitative element such as interviews, the results from
                                these might add some weight to answering the project's
                                research questions. In the final analysis, it is not always
                                necessary to produce results that put you in line for a Nobel Prize!
                                Modest studies that nudge forward the boundaries of knowledge are
                                acceptable.


Related Material
These could include
Letters of support for the research.An agreement to collaborate from interested institutions or
                                        sponsors.Instructions to subjects or participants.Participant consent forms (see Chapter 4).Questionnaires for surveys or interviews.Supplementary bibliographies.Approval letters from ethics committees.

Case Study 3.2

Developing A Research Theme Into A
                                        Proposal
As we saw in Case Study 3.1, Marion's dissertation
                                        title is: 'Women and leadership: are there glass
                                        ceilings in the modern banking sector?' In her
                                        proposal, she readily identifies a number of literatures she
                                        wishes to access and discuss. One, of course, is the general
                                        literature on leadership itself. Within this, she identifies
                                        three important models, namely: transactional,
                                        transformational and situational leadership. A sub-set of
                                        leadership theory is the literature that deals with women
                                        and leadership which contains not only conceptual but also
                                        empirical articles based on field research. There is also a
                                        much smaller, but, for Marion's purposes, wonderfully
                                        focused literature on women and leadership in financial
                                        services (which includes a small number of articles on
                                        women, leadership and banking).
Marion reflects on her attitude towards epistemology. She
                                        believes that knowledge is not absolute but contextual and
                                        relative. She does not, therefore, see her role as producing
                                        'the truth' about women leaders in the banking
                                        sector. Instead, she wants to highlight the experiences of
                                        women who have 'made it to the top'. Her main
                                        research question is: What are the key skills, competencies
                                        and behaviours that contribute to the promotion of women
                                        into leadership positions in the banking sector? She sees
                                        her epistemological stance as interpretivist, and a series
                                        of case studies (of successful women) as central to her research design.
                                        The use of qualitative interviews fits comfortably with case
                                        study design. In terms of sampling, she decides to begin
                                        with ten face-to-face interviews with purposively selected
                                        women leaders, and to analyse the data before deciding on
                                        whether additional interviews are necessary to validate
                                        existing themes or to pursue new ones.



Activity 3.4
If Marion had adopted a more objectivist epistemological stance,
                                    what difference would this have made to her proposal in terms of
                                    the kinds of research questions she asked, and the research
                                    design adopted?




Writing Organizational Proposals
There are two main types of organizational proposal, comprising those
                            that are written:
In response to a request for proposals or 'invitations to
                                    bid' from, say, government agencies or companies.For submission to an internal organization or department, often
                                    in response to a request for help with a problem or a need to
                                    improve a product or service.



Writing Organizational Proposals


Whichever kind is written, White suggests that a proposal is a
                            'sophisticated advertisement of approaches and abilities'
                            (1997: 218) and not just a description of how a project could be
                            tackled.

To Bid Or Not To Bid?
Many proposals are written within tight timescales and in the
                                knowledge that other individuals, teams or organizations are
                                competing for the project. In deciding whether to respond to any
                                request for proposals (RFPs), you will need to take a view of:
Whether you and/or your team possess the necessary expertise
                                        to respond.The number of bids you are competing against and the likely
                                        strength of opposing bids.The number of bids that will be funded.Whether all bids are to be fairly evaluated, or whether the
                                        process is possibly biased.
These criteria will help you to undertake a risk assessment, weighing
                                up the probability of success and the potential size of the funding
                                if successful, against the time it will take to write the bid.


Preparing To Write The Proposal
Figure 3.5 illustrates a series
                                of steps that should be observed in writing any organizational
                                proposal. We will look in detail at each stage.

Review the request for proposal specifications.
                                            Take another, careful, look at the request for proposals
                                            (RFPs) and make sure that they are complete, consistent
                                            and clear. The RFP document should contain a description
                                            of the background of the proposed project, why it is
                                            needed, the intended outcomes and budget. Some RFPs may
                                            contain information on how responses to each of the
                                            specifications will be scored - for example, some
                                            requirements may be more important to the project than
                                            others and receive a higher weighting. If anything in
                                            the RFP is unclear, then it is legitimate to contact the
                                            creators of the RFP (preferably in writing) and ask for
                                            clarification.
Figure
                                                  3.5 Proposal development flowchartSource: Adapted from
                                                White, 1997. Reprinted by permission of the American
                                                Society of Mechanical Engineers
Develop a plan of action. This should include a
                                        rationale for the project, the key research objectives and a
                                        plan of how these are to be met, that is to say, the
                                        research methodology. Take care to show that the project has
                                        value. To do this apply the invaluable 'so
                                        what?' test. This means looking at your proposed
                                        project outcomes and asking yourself to evaluate honestly
                                        whether they have any real worth in terms of practical
                                        application or contribution to knowledge.Determine the human resourcing of the project. Those
                                        who commissioned the proposal will be keen to evaluate not
                                        only the number of people committed to the project, but also
                                        their experience and qualifications. If any element of the
                                        project is going to be outsourced to a third party, then
                                        again, evidence should be provided of their 'fitness
                                        for purpose'.Develop the project graphics. This will be
                                        particularly important for more technical projects, but
                                        should always be considered for research projects of any
                                        kind. Graphics, particularly flow diagrams showing how
                                        different elements of a project relate to one another, can
                                        be easy to read and understand. Ensure that if graphics are
                                        used, there is a clear description provided in the text
                                        (such as the way in which the text is describing Figure 3.5).Develop a project schedule. A project schedule such
                                        as a Gantt chart (see p. 53) provides a list of the main
                                        project tasks and the dates for their completion. These
                                        tasks could include arrangements for seeking permissions
                                        from an ethics committee, preliminary arrangements for
                                        getting research subjects, a timetable for constructing
                                        research tools, analysing data and writing the research
                                        report.Develop project costs. White (1997) warns that this
                                        is more an art than a science because there are so many
                                        variables to take into account. Particular care needs to be
                                        taken when estimating labour costs since these often eat up
                                        the bulk of a research project's budget. Since the
                                        research process is rarely linear and smooth, it is prudent
                                        to add in some contingency costs in case unexpected results
                                        emerge that require further research. The less experienced
                                        the research team, or riskier the project, the higher the
                                        contingency costs should be. Given that commissioning
                                        organizations are highly unlikely to pay for contingency
                                        costs, these will have to be built into (i.e. hidden!) in
                                        general costs. Of course, the higher your overall costs, the
                                        less competitive your bid.



The Final Stages For Academic And Organizational
                            Proposals

Preparing The Final Document
In writing the final project or academic proposal, try to ensure that
                                the document is internally consistent, and that there are no gaps or
                                contradictions between objectives and research processes. Remember
                                that once the proposal is submitted you are committed to it, so you
                                need to ensure that all errors have been eliminated. It helps, then,
                                to elicit the assistance of some experienced reviewers who should be
                                asked to answer the following questions:
Is the proposal clear and understandable?Is the proposal realistic - are the aims
                                        attainable?Is the proposal consistent with the specifications against
                                        which it was written?
Also, in the case of organizational proposals, get an appropriate
                                person to review the budget. White (1997) makes the useful
                                suggestion that you should do a hand calculation of all columns and
                                rows of financial data, even if they were calculated by computer (in
                                case a decimal point has slipped!). When you have finished the
                                proposal, print it off and read it one more time.


Success Or Failure?
It is worth having a strategy in place for whether the proposal is
                                approved or rejected. If the latter, Williams (2002) offers the
                                advice that you should try to get feedback on the proposal from
                                those who have evaluated it. This may allow you to improve the
                                proposal if there are later opportunities for resubmitting it. In
                                the case of organizational proposals, if the bid is successful, you
                                may be offered less funding than you asked for. At this point you
                                need to decide whether to accept this funding, or, if possible,
                                renegotiate the outputs of the project at a lower level.




Summary
A good research topic must have the potential for demonstrating
                                    theoretical credibility. Allow for access to the relevant data,
                                    provide a symmetry of potential outcomes, and be congruent with
                                    your own interests, capabilities and career aspirations.To generate ideas for a research topic you could look at
                                    examples of projects completed by others, or ideas could emerge
                                    from your reading of the literature or by a brainstorming
                                    process.Before starting the project, produce a plan to show when and how
                                    you intend to conduct your research including data collection,
                                    analysis and the writing-up process.For any academic research proposal, pay particular attention to
                                    the methodology section including sampling procedures, and the
                                    choices made for research strategy and data collection
                                    tools.In writing any proposal, make sure that your bid matches the
                                    specifications accurately. Get your proposal evaluated by others
                                    before submission.

Review Questions
Make a list of all the potential sources available to you
                                        for getting ideas on the subject matter or focus for your
                                        research. Which of these is most readily available to you?
                                        Which is less available but important?Consider your familiarity with the knowledge area for your
                                        research and allocate a number for your familiarity with
                                        this area, with 1 being totally unfamiliar and 10 very
                                        familiar. What number have you chosen? How comfortable are
                                        you with this number? Does it suggest that you should aim
                                        for a higher or lower level of familiarity?Imagine that you are working in an organization and are
                                        contacted by a student as a potential sponsor of a research
                                        project. What kind of reassurances would you want to receive
                                        before agreeing to sponsorship? What kind of payback would
                                        you want for your organization?



Further Reading
Locke, L.F., Spirduso, W.W. and Silverman, S.J. (2013) Proposals that
                                Work: A Guide to Planning Dissertations and Grant Proposals, 6th
                            edn. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage. The fact that this is now in its 5th
                            edition speaks for itself. A detailed book that provides valuable
                            guidance on the structure and content of proposals as well as the often
                            forgotten issue of ethics in proposal writing.
Punch, K.F. (2006) Developing Effective Research Proposals, 2nd
                            edn. London: Sage. A useful book that deals with both quantitative and
                            qualitative approaches to research. it includes examples of successful
                            research proposals and a checklist of 32 questions to guide proposal
                            development.


Journal Resources
Heath, M.T.P. and Tynan, C. (2010) 'Crafting a research
                            proposal', Marketing Review, 10(2): 147-168. As
                            well as guidelines, discusses the criteria against which proposals are
                            assessed.
Kim, Y., Hahn, D. and Coursey, D. (2012) 'Decisions in research
                            review boards', Public Integrity, 14(2): 173-192.
                            By researching the decision making processes of Institutional Review
                            Boards, the kinds of criteria that make for a successful bid are
                                revealed.
Klopper, H. (2008) 'The qualitative research proposal',
                                Curationis, 31(4): 62-72. Deals with the process of
                            writing a qualitative research proposal with regards to the most
                            important questions that need to be answered.
Reave, L. (2002) 'Promoting innovation in the workplace: The
                            internal proposal', Business Communication Quarterly, (4):
                            8-18. Guidelines for producing a work-based proposal, including a
                            suggested structure.

Don't forget to visit the companion website at https://study.sagepub.com/grayresearchbusiness for the
                                following resources which support this chapter:

















4 Business Research Ethics

Chapter Introduction

Chapter Outline
What do we mean by ethics?The growth of ethical codes of practiceThe focus of ethicsEthical principlesPutting ethics into practicePerspectives on research ethicsEthics and the InternetResearching ethically in your own organizationEthics and research reportsA checklist of ethical issuesSafety issues for researchers


Keywords
EthicsEthical code of practiceInstitutional Review Board



Icon Key







Author Video







Chapter Objectives
After reading this chapter you will be able to:
Define what we mean by ethics.Explain why ethics are now so important to organizations and
                                        individuals undertaking research.Describe why adopting an ethical approach to research is
                                        important.Describe how ethical principles are of benefit to sound
                                        research design.Apply an ethical framework to your own research design and
                                        practice.



We will deal with a wide range of ethical issues that are particular to
                            specific research methods in later chapters. Here, we will examine some
                            of the ethical considerations of more general significance.
                                Ethics is a philosophical term derived from the Greek word
                                ethos, which means character or custom. The ethics of
                            research concern the appropriateness of the researcher's
                            behaviour in relation to the subjects of the research or those who are
                            affected by it. Since research in the real world inevitably deals with
                            people and the things that affect them, ethical issues can arise at the
                            planning, implementation and reporting stages of research. Some ethical
                            issues, at first sight, appear a matter of courtesy and common sense.
                            However, as we shall see, ethical issues often give rise to complexity.
                            As Korac-Kakabadse et al. (2002) suggest, one of the challenges of
                            ethical behaviour is that it lies in a 'grey zone' where
                            clear-cut dichotomies between what is right and wrong may not exist.


What Do We Mean By Ethics?
Research ethics refers to the moral principles guiding research (Economic
                            and Social Research Council (ESRC), 2004) or as Homan (1991: 1) puts it,
                            the 'science of morality'. It means conducting research in
                            a way that goes beyond merely adopting the most appropriate research
                            methodology, but conducting research in a responsible and morally
                            defensible way. Ethics, then, are sets of moral principles or norms that
                            are used to guide moral choices of behaviour and relationships with
                            others (Blumberg et al., 2005). This makes it sound, however, that such
                            principles are easily constructed and simply applied, when this is very
                            far from the case, in part because research ethics involve ontological,
                            epistemological and theoretical assumptions (Payne, 2000).



Ethics in Practice


This chapter does not seek to offer a full and comprehensive review of
                            ethical theories (for these see Miller et al., 2012, and Israel and Hay,
                            2006), but rather focuses on those models that relate to research
                            practice. It is because of this that we will be looking primarily at
                            normative rather than meta-ethics (which is about the form or foundation
                            of ethics and asks questions such as: 'does good exist?'
                            and 'if there are moral facts, how do we know them?').
                            Normative ethics includes the deontological perspective (from the Greek,
                                deon meaning duty or obligation) which argues that the ends
                            never justify the means, so ethical principles should never be
                            compromised (see Table 4.1). The deontological
                            perspective focuses on the rights of research participants, such as the
                            right to privacy, the right to respect or the right to
                            self-determination (Murphy and Dingwall, 2001). However, there are two
                            views on this perspective. The universalistic view argues that these
                            rules or principles should never be broken; the contingent or
                            relativistic position, though, sees that these rules or duties may vary
                            across different countries, communities or professional groups.




An alternative position within normative ethics is the teleological (or
                            consequentialist approach), which states that the morality of the means
                            can only be judged in the context of what is achieved. The
                            universalistic view of teleological perspectives argues that following a
                            universal set of rules is legitimate if it leads to the desired ends
                                (rule utilitarianism). The contingent view of teleological
                            perspectives, however, holds that acts should be judged purely on their
                            outcomes - the ends always justify the means, e.g., act
                            utilitarianism. So, for example, using forms of deception are justified
                            if the research outcomes are of tangible benefit to the research
                            participants or another group. The problem here, however, is that not
                            only might the benefits be morally questionable, but the research
                            participants and so-called beneficiaries might be different groups of
                            people. For example, putting participants into induced stressful
                            situations in a laboratory controlled experiment might yield information
                            on how people can cope better with stress. However, the experiment might
                            leave the participants themselves with long-term symptoms of stress with
                            no benefits.
As Murphy and Dingwall (2001) point out, most of the controversy around
                            ethics has arisen at the level of practice, rather than principle.


The Growth Of Ethical Codes Of Practice
Concern about conducting ethical research became more acute after World
                            War II when evidence about Nazi experiments on concentration camp
                            victims became widely known. One result was the Nuremberg Code 1947,
                            following on from the war crimes tribunal, which set out ten standards
                            to which those conducting human experiments must adhere, including the
                            voluntary and informed consent of research subjects (see Table 4.2).



Nuremberg Code





Source: National Institute of
                                Health, 2008

This was later superseded by the Declaration of Helsinki which sought to
                            balance the interests of research subjects with the need for scientific
                            research. Compared to the medical sciences, the social sciences have not
                            been as persistent and diligent in the way they have developed ethical
                            standards (Schneider, 2006b). This is partly because the diversity of
                            social sciences has meant that each discipline has addressed ethics
                            within its own context. It is now recognized that, like the natural and
                            medical sciences, the social sciences are also capable of producing
                            risk-generating endeavours (Haggerty, 2004). While the scale of risk
                            generated by social science research is usually less, a number of
                            prominent studies have alerted researchers to potential ethical dangers
                            (see Case Study 4.1)



Declaration of Helsinki


Image 4.1 Photo of
                                defendants at the Nuremberg trials, circa 1946


Case Study 4.1

Examples Of Ethically Contentious Practice
One of the most infamous experiments to raise important ethical
                                    questions was that conducted by Milgram (1974) which explored
                                    the process of obedience to authority. In this case, an
                                    'experimenter' oversaw an experiment in which two
                                    participants are informed that they are part of a study into the
                                    effects of punishment on memory retention. One participant took
                                    the part of the 'learner' with the other taking on
                                    the role of 'teacher'. The teacher was the actual
                                    research participant, but the 'experimenter' and
                                    'learner' were, in fact, both undercover
                                    researchers. The 'learner' was taken to a separate
                                    room and hooked up to electrodes. The teacher then asked the
                                    learner a series of questions. Each time the learner got a
                                    question wrong, the teacher (research participant) was asked to
                                    administer an electric shock. Although, in practice, the
                                    equipment was fake and no shocks were administered, the teacher
                                    was asked to increase the voltage with each wrong answer. As the
                                    voltage increased, the learner started to grunt, then ask to be
                                    released, scream and then eventually went ominously silent.
                                    Approximately 60 per cent of participants punished the learner
                                    to the point where they 'passed out'. Milgram
                                    believed he was demonstrating the extent to which people will
                                    conform to authority when asked to perform a task, no matter how
                                    distasteful. Critics, however, have condemned the experiment on
                                    a whole range of counts, including doing psychological harm to
                                    participants, using deception and ignoring the need for informed
                                    consent. According to Cassell (1982: 21) what was unethical
                                    about Milgram's study was that he exposed the
                                    participants to 'unasked for self-knowledge'.




Image 4.2 The
                                Milgram experiment


Activity 4.1
Was the Milgram experiment justified? Think about this in terms of
                                the duties of researchers, human rights, outcomes and understandings
                                of vulnerability and autonomy.



Over the past 20 or 30 years the ethics of research has emerged as an
                            issue of increasing prominence, partly because in both business and the
                            professions, people are having to cope with increasingly complex
                            problems, many of them containing ethical dimensions (Nicholson, 1994).
                            There are probably a number of reasons for this. Certainly most of the
                            professional associations and educational institutions that involve
                            themselves in research, have produced their own Code of Ethics partly to
                            reduce the risk of legal action against any of their members who are
                            accused of acting unethically. But on a more positive note, it is also
                            because these institutions want to promote a more professional approach
                            to research and to promote optimal behaviour, and the adherence to
                            ethical conduct can only help here. Indeed, far from being seen as a
                            hurdle, planning a project that adheres to ethical principles can only
                            help the project - even if the plan never has to be presented to
                            an ethics committee. Hopefully, the justification for this statement
                            will emerge as you read this chapter.
Apart from professional researchers, the other large research grouping is
                            students undertaking a qualification in subject areas such as the social
                            sciences and business. As part of the dissertation stage of their
                            studies, students usually have to conduct some primary research which
                            will often involve data collection through, for example, surveys,
                            interviews or focus groups. Awarding bodies such as universities have
                            become increasingly concerned about the risks of litigation from
                            research participants, or the organizations in which they work, should
                            some of these studies go wrong. Most institutes of higher education and
                            colleges, then, have established their own ethics committees, which
                            evaluate research against a set of carefully formulated ethical
                            guidelines. In cases where, say, a student's supervisor is
                            concerned that ethical problems might arise, the student will be
                            required to submit their research proposal to the institution's
                            ethics committee for approval. If this is denied, then the research
                            cannot go ahead.

On The Web 4.1
Take a look at ethical guidelines at some of the following academic
                                institutions:

http://www.gre.ac.uk/research/rec/rep


http://www2.surrey.ac.uk/fahs/staffandstudents/ethicalprocedures/#A0


http://www2.warwick.ac.uk/services/rss/researchgovernance_ethics/research_code_of_practice/researchethicscommittees/



Activity 4.2
If you are a student, undertaking a formal course of study, take a
                                look at the ethical code of conduct for your institution. This is
                                usually found as a published document (often in your course
                                handbook), on the institution's website, or both. Is this
                                code of practice based on universalistic or contingent approaches,
                                as in Table 4.1?



Employability Skill 4.1

Abiding By Ethical Codes
Whether you are a professional researcher, student or anyone else
                                    involved in business research, make sure that you are aware of,
                                    and attempt to abide by, any ethical code that governs your
                                    research.



Managing Ethical Guidelines






The Focus Of Ethics
Potentially, any research that involves data gathering or contact with
                            human (or animal) populations involves ethical considerations. According
                            to the ESRC in the UK (2004) issues that involve a normally larger
                            element of ethical risk include:
Research involving vulnerable groups - for example
                                    children and young people, those with learning disabilities or
                                    special needs or individuals in an unequal or dependent
                                    relationship.Research involving sensitive topics - for example, sexual
                                    or illegal activities, or people's experience of abuse or
                                    violence.Research where subjects can only be accessed via a
                                        gatekeeper - for example, some ethnic or
                                    cultural groups.Research involving an element of deception such as covert
                                    observation (see Chapter 16) used without a
                                    participant's full or informed consent.Research involving access to confidential records or
                                    information.Research that would lead to stress, anxiety or humiliation among
                                    target groups.Research involving intrusive strategies that people would not
                                    normally meet in their everyday lives - for example, the
                                    administration of drugs or getting people to undertake extreme
                                    physical exercise.



ESRC Ethical Guidelines


What is common to many of these situations is that forms of deception are
                            used, the privacy of respondents is invaded or participants run the risk
                            of coming to some emotional or physical harm.


Ethical Principles
Ethical principles, then, fall into four main areas, namely, the need
                            to:
Avoid harm to participants.Ensure informed consent of participants.Respect the privacy of participants.Avoid the use of deception.
Let us look at each of these in more detail.

Avoiding Harm To Participants
As you can, no doubt, tell, the term 'harm' can embrace
                                a very wide range of issues, ranging from physical to mental and
                                emotional harm. Research will be considered harmful, for example, if it causes a participant
                                to be embarrassed, ridiculed, belittled or generally subject to
                                mental distress (Sudman, 1998), or if it produces anxiety or stress
                                to participants or produces negative emotional reactions. For
                                example, comparing the emotional development of special needs pupils
                                with those from the mainstream might highlight for the special needs
                                pupils that they are different, a diagnosis they were originally
                                unaware of (and are not thankful for).
Workplace research often requires respondents to express their views
                                and opinions on work-related issues, some of which might include
                                criticisms of the organization and its management. If individuals
                                can be identified, then in extreme cases this could cause not just
                                embarrassment, but even discipline or dismissal. If confidentiality
                                is requested, it must be adhered to. However, even though attempts
                                might be made to preserve the anonymity of individuals, it is
                                by no means always impossible for people to be identified,
                                especially those who are known to hold certain strong beliefs. So
                                there can be a difference between (good) intentions and practice. If
                                it is known in advance that confidentiality might be breached, the
                                research must not go ahead. The situation is similar with
                                organizations. If the research, say, has focused on a large company
                                in a particular city, it might not require the skills of a detective
                                to guess the organization's name. If there are any dangers
                                that anonymity might be breached, individuals and organizations must
                                be informed of this so that they can withdraw from the research if
                                they wish - adhering to the principle of 'informed
                                consent' (see below).



Avoiding Harm


What does avoiding harm mean in practice? Clearly, at one extreme, it
                                means ensuring that no physical harm comes to respondents. In
                                contrast to some medical research, most social or business research
                                does not run this risk, although there can be exceptions. For
                                example, an ethnographic study into how a creative media company
                                creates innovative products might come across illegal activities
                                such as drug consumption, resulting in a series of arrests. This in
                                turn might threaten the safety of future researchers particularly if
                                they are acting covertly and their 'cover' is
                                blown.
However, there may be dangers of causing participants psychological
                                damage, or causing anxiety, stress, embarrassment or loss of
                                self-esteem. Sudman (1998) argues that avoiding harm could include
                                seemingly trivial acts such as scheduling interviews to avoid
                                disruption to the respondent. Moreno (1999), for example, argues
                                that ethically acceptable research should abide by the principle of
                                respect for persons. This means that a study should not be so poorly
                                designed that it has little chance of achieving meaningful results.
                                Even though a research project may not actually cause injury, the
                                fact that its results are meagre is nonetheless disrespectful.
                                Similarly, abiding by the principle of justice means that a
                                study's research design should not cause a burden to any
                                particular social group unless there are some compensating
                                gains.
Indeed, it could be argued that researchers need to go beyond
                                avoiding harm to participants and should aim, instead, for positive
                                benefits. One potential benefit from research is adding to the stock
                                of human knowledge. Acting ethically, therefore, means designing
                                studies in such a way that they are capable of yielding accurate and
                                valid results. It also means conducting studies, the results of
                                which have relevance beyond the vested interests for the researcher.
                                Even if the research falls short of being 'ground
                                breaking', participants can benefit if the researcher
                                provides them with a summary of the results of the study, or the
                                results of any assessments (for example, psychometric tests or
                                attitude scales) they have taken as part of the research. This at
                                least may provide participants with better self-knowledge.



Ensuring Informed Consent
The principle of informed consent means that research participants
                                are provided with sufficient and accessible information about a
                                project so that they can make an informed decision as to whether to
                                become involved, or not (Crow et al., 2006). This, however, applies
                                to individuals but also the organizations they work for. Hence,
                                gaining consent needs to occur in two stages. Firstly, gaining
                                consent of organizational stakeholders such as senior managers,
                                research sponsors or others (see Getting written approval, p. 85).
                                Secondly, and only if organizational consent is achieved, gaining
                                consent from individual participants. In gaining consent, how much
                                information should be given about the research? Sudman (1998)
                                suggests that the amount of information given to respondents should
                                reflect the degree of risk involved in the research study. Most
                                survey research, for example, involves only low levels of risk to
                                respondents, so the amount of time spent explaining the purpose of
                                the study would be relatively small. Typically, for a survey
                                questionnaire, for example, an introductory section would provide
                                the following information:
The aims of the research.Who will be undertaking it.Who is being asked to participate.What kind of information is being sought.How much of the participant's time is required.That participation in the study is voluntary.That responding to all questions is voluntary.Who will have access to the data once it is collected.How anonymity of respondents will be preserved.Who should it be returned to and by when.



Informed Consent




Top Tip 4.1
When composing the introductory section of a survey, be as
                                        accurate and succinct as possible, avoiding waffle and
                                        ambiguity. Get the description checked and critiqued by
                                        others such as friends, fellow students or a supervisor, so
                                        that the final version is 'polished'.




Informed consent is particularly important where groups are
                                considered 'vulnerable', because they may be more open
                                to coercion, exploitation or harm than others (for example, young
                                people in an organization, interns, people being mentored by those
                                with more power and status). Gaining informed consent can yield
                                important positive spin-offs for research projects (Crow et al.,
                                2006):
Research participants are likely to have more confidence in
                                        the research and so be more open and frank in their
                                        responses.Greater confidence in the research should also improve
                                        participation rates.Researchers are forced to sharpen and clarify the purposes
                                        of their research which helps participants but also the
                                        researchers themselves.
It is essential, however, that participants are provided with
                                information that is meaningful to them (avoiding complex,
                                theoretical language and jargon), succinct and timely. Of course,
                                there may be circumstances when gaining informed consent is simply
                                impractical - for example, when researching illegal
                                activities such as the observation of theft from a company
                                warehouse. But at least in the case of research being undertaken by
                                students, such research is unlikely to obtain ethical approval from
                                their supervisor or their institution's ethics committee.
In practice, it is important
                                to distinguish between different approaches to gaining consent. In
                                surveys, for example, how much effort should be put into persuading
                                someone to participate? Sudman (1998) distinguishes between
                                'hard' and 'soft' refusals. A soft
                                refusal is if someone says 'No, I'm too busy at the
                                moment', or 'This is not a convenient time for
                                me'. A hard refusal is when someone says, 'No,
                                I'm really not interested'. Hard refusals should not
                                be followed up, but soft ones may be. But even in the case of soft
                                refusals, there should not usually be more than one follow up.
                                Similarly, with mail surveys, respondents who return a questionnaire
                                saying that they do not wish to participate should not be followed
                                up, but those who do not return it immediately, can be followed up
                                with one reminder.
A common data gathering method in social and business research is
                                covert observation (see Chapter 16), where the
                                researcher does not reveal his or her identity. Where, for example,
                                the researcher works alongside a group of workers observing and
                                perhaps taking secret notes, people are being observed without their
                                consent. In a classic article, Erikson (1967) argues that there are
                                a number of serious objections to disguised observation:
The researcher can harm those being observed in the social
                                        scene in ways that cannot be anticipated.Deception is likely to damage the reputation of the subject
                                        upon which the research is being conducted.The very act of entering a social field in order to study
                                        it, changes or disrupts that scene, no matter what
                                        precautions are taken.
Goode (1996), however, challenges these notions, contending that
                                there should be no absolute prohibition to covert research methods.
                                He insists that the ethics of disguised observation be evaluated on
                                a situational, case-by-case basis. Deception is only undesirable in
                                the abstract, but if no harm befalls respondents and some benefit
                                comes from the study in the form of new knowledge, then a study does
                                more good than harm (Goode, 1996). Yet protecting respondents from
                                harm needs to be the researcher's primary interest. This
                                being the case, most ethics committees will seek to review any
                                proposed covert observation studies in great detail.
Even in research designs involving overt observation or data
                                gathering approaches such as interviewing, it is often quite
                                difficult to give participants absolutely every piece of information
                                that they might need. For example, for an online questionnaire, the
                                estimated amount of time respondents need to complete it might be
                                omitted so that respondents are not put off from completing it.
                                Similarly, in ethnographic research, it may be simply impractical to
                                inform the many people in a workplace or community setting. However,
                                even where it is impossible or impractical to elicit the informed
                                consent of participants before the research takes place, consent
                                should be obtained after the event. Ethical approaches to
                                observation may be influenced by the subject discipline the
                                researcher belongs to - see Case Study
                                    4.2.

Case Study 4.2

Examples Of How Different Ethical Codes Of
                                        Practice Deal With Observation

British Psychological Society
Studies based upon observation must respect the privacy
                                            and psychological well-being of the individuals studied.
                                            Unless those observed give their consent to being
                                            observed, observational research is only acceptable in
                                            situations where those observed would expect to be
                                            observed by strangers. Additionally, particular account
                                            should be taken of local cultural values and of the
                                            possibility of intruding upon the privacy of individuals
                                            who, even while in a nominally public space, may believe
                                            they are unobserved.


Social Research Association
In observation studies where behaviour patterns are
                                            observed without the subject's knowledge, social
                                            researchers must take care not to infringe what may be
                                            referred to as the 'private space' of an
                                            individual or group. This will vary from culture to
                                            culture. Where practicable, social researchers should
                                            attempt to obtain consent post hoc. In any event, they
                                            should interpret behaviour patterns that appear to
                                            deliberately make observation difficult as a tacit
                                            refusal of permission to be observed.


Academy Of Management
Confidentiality is not required with respect to
                                            observations in public places, activities conducted in
                                            public, or other settings where no rules of privacy are
                                            provided by law or by custom.




Activity 4.3
In what ways might the study of individuals in public places be
                                    conducted differently when adopting each of these ethical
                                    codes?


On The Web 4.2
Compare and contrast some of the websites in Table
                                        4.3 from some of the major research communities and
                                    sponsoring organizations for their ethical codes of
                                    practice:







Respecting Privacy Of Participants
The right to privacy is one of the basic tenets of living in a
                                democratic society. As law-abiding citizens, we do not expect our
                                communications with other people (whether letters, emails or
                                discussions) to be monitored by, say, agents of the state. Nor would
                                we expect to have to provide personal information to government or
                                other agencies, unless a very good rationale was provided first.
                                Similarly, researchers do not have any right to intrude into a
                                respondent's personal affairs. The overarching principle here
                                is that respondents must always have to give their informed
                                    consent in giving information. This not only means giving
                                such consent before, say, an interview starts, but during the
                                interview itself. Hence, respondents have the right to withdraw from
                                an interview at any time, or refuse to answer any question they find
                                intrusive. Researchers have to make it transparently clear to
                                respondents that their participation in the research is entirely
                                voluntary and that they have the right to withdraw at any time. So,
                                this right to withdraw needs to be stated in any preamble before an
                                interview, or in the introduction to a questionnaire.



Refusal



Top Tip 4.2
If, during an interview, you observe a respondent becoming
                                    agitated, stressed or withdrawn, do not ignore these warning
                                    signs and plough on regardless. Ask them if they are
                                    comfortable. If they state they are not, ask if they would like
                                    to terminate the interview. If this gets a 'Yes',
                                    switch off any recording equipment and thank them for their
                                    participation. If researching vulnerable groups, you may be
                                    required by your institution's code of ethics at this
                                    point to offer additional psychological support such as
                                    counselling or other forms of help.



Quentin Tarantino Agitated
                                            Interviewee





As we have seen, covert observation or, indeed, any kind of covert
                                method is, almost by definition, an invasion of the
                                individual's privacy, largely on the basis that people are
                                not given an opportunity to refuse to participate. A researcher, for
                                example, covertly working alongside a group of postal workers in
                                order to observe their work practices (or even malpractices) would
                                potentially be party to hearing personal information, gossip about
                                other people and sometimes, clandestine activities. In this
                                situation, none of the workers involved is aware of the role of the
                                researcher, and, while unwittingly providing information, none has
                                been given the opportunity to remain anonymous.
Issues of anonymity and confidentiality are compounded when it comes
                                to ways in which data collected by a researcher are stored and what
                                kind of controls are in place to prevent the data being accessed and
                                used by others (both researchers and non-researchers). In the UK,
                                the Data Protection Act 1998 relates to personal data (including
                                both facts and opinions) held on a living individual who can be
                                identified either from the data or from other information held by
                                the data holder. The Act is designed to impose restrictions on the
                                processing of data including how the data are obtained, recorded and
                                stored, and also the analysis conducted on them. The key points to
                                note are that:
The Act relates to both facts and opinions.Personal data must be obtained fairly and lawfully.
                                        Respondents should be provided with the name of the data
                                        holder (the institution); the purpose for which the data are
                                        being collected and processed; to whom the data will be
                                        disclosed.
Personal data relates to data that are held in both
                                            electronic form and manual form (e.g., paper files, card
                                            indices).



UK Data Protection Act


Personal data must be accurate and kept up to date and must
                                        not be kept longer than necessary.Appropriate security measures must be taken against
                                        accidental loss or destruction of data and against unlawful
                                        or unauthorized processing of personal data.Personal data must not be transferred to a country outside
                                        the European Economic Area unless those countries can offer
                                        adequate data protection.In practice, this means that information on names, telephone
                                        numbers, email and postal addresses and any other
                                        identifying features should be restricted. If other
                                        researchers wish to gain access to the data, they must be
                                        required to sign non-disclosure confidentiality
                                        forms.

Top Tip 4.3
Survey and interview forms used to collect the data should be
                                    made inaccessible to everyone except the researcher and those
                                    inputting the data. It is also advisable to weaken the link
                                    between the raw data and information stored in any database. For
                                    example, when input to the database, respondents could be
                                    assigned a code number identifier instead of their names. Data
                                    files that allow a researcher to reconstruct the link between an
                                    identifier number and the respondent's name should be
                                    kept under locked storage.
There are particularly stringent requirements laid down for
                                    sensitive data which includes data about racial or ethnic
                                    origin, physical or mental health or condition, and sexual life.
                                    For these kinds of data it is necessary that data subjects give
                                    their explicit consent. There are certain exceptions made for
                                    data which are collected for the purposes of research. These
                                    data can be kept indefinitely, and are exempt from the rights of
                                    data subjects to gain access, as long as the results of the work
                                    are not made available in a form in which individual data
                                    subjects can be identified. However, researchers are still
                                    obliged to give data subjects information about the intended
                                    uses of the research.



Privacy laws, of course, vary internationally, and, according to the
                                Organization of American States (OAS, 2013), are stricter in Europe
                                than in many other parts of the world. According to the OAS, the
                                European view on privacy covers every aspect of the
                                individual's life, with legislation covering both the
                                processing of personal data by the government and private
                                organizations. The situation is different in the USA with industries
                                mostly self-regulated, including most private corporations,
                                data-mining businesses, personal data repositories and
                                Internet-based social-networking sites.


Avoiding Deception
Deception means researchers representing their research as something
                                which it is not. A classic case of its kind is the now notorious
                                Stanford prison experiment. Here a young researcher, Philip
                                Zimbardo, recruited a group of people to take part in a study, with
                                some randomly assigned as guards and some as prisoners, to show how
                                each group would slip into predefined roles and behaviours rather
                                than using their own judgements. The experiment degenerated quickly,
                                with those acting as guards imposing an array of punishments on the
                                'prisoners'. Prisoners suffered physical and mental
                                punishment as well as sexual abuse. So this study suffered from both
                                deception and the fact that some participants were harmed.



Stanford Prison Experiment




On The Web 4.3
For further details of the Stanford prison experiment, see Philip
                                    Zimbardo's website at:

http://www.prisonexp.org/




While most researchers would automatically condemn deception as
                                wrong, in practice, many researchers are guilty of it, largely
                                because they avoid being completely candid with participants in
                                order to elicit the most natural of responses. A typical and common
                                example would be not telling participants that an interview they
                                have agreed to will take an hour to complete. Being against
                                deception is not merely a matter of infringing human rights, it is
                                also a practical matter of avoiding building a negative reputation
                                that might in the long term reduce levels of participant
                                cooperation. In practice, however, it is difficult to draw a line
                                between outright deception and being less than honest about the
                                truth.

Case Study 4.3

Getting Approval Through An
                                        Institution'S Ethics Committee
A team of university researchers has won a project grant to
                                        investigate the impact of executive coaching on a cohort of
                                        unemployed managers. The unemployed managers are going to be
                                        offered up to 10 hours of one-to-one, face-to-face coaching,
                                        through which, it is hoped, they will gain greater personal
                                        confidence, motivation and skills in job seeking and thus
                                        increase their chances of gaining full-time employment.
                                        Before the coaching intervention and research approach can
                                        be implemented, however, the research team meets to discuss
                                        the ethical implications of what they are doing. They have
                                        decided that their primary research aims will include
                                        measuring the impact the coaching has on the self-confidence
                                        and self-efficacy of respondents. However, the researchers
                                        understand that for the person being coached, the process
                                        can often open up deep-seated issues. Given that the target
                                        beneficiaries are also unemployed, they can be viewed as a
                                        potentially 'vulnerable' group.



Seeking Ethical Approval


The research team therefore put together a research protocol
                                        in which they make the aims of the project explicit, as well
                                        as how the coaching and research is to be conducted.
                                        Vitally, they also show how the interests of the beneficiary
                                        group are to be protected. All of the group will be
                                        volunteers; no one will coerce them onto the programme. A
                                        letter is written to all participants setting out the
                                        objectives of the research and guaranteeing them
                                        confidentiality in terms of their responses. The protocol,
                                        letter and additional documentation are submitted to the
                                        university research ethics committee and three weeks later
                                        the research team get their answer -
                                        'reject'! The ethics committee is concerned
                                        that no steps have been taken to protect any participants
                                        who may have psychological problems related to their current
                                        unemployed state. The problem, however, is quickly
                                        rectified. The research team recruits a member of the
                                        psychology department who is an accredited clinical
                                        psychologist to act as a referral point, should problems be
                                        identified either through the battery of psychometric
                                        instruments used in the research or through the coaching. On
                                        second application, the research protocol is accepted and
                                        the research commences.




Activity 4.4
Case Study 4.3 also includes a control group of unemployed
                                    managers who are asked to complete the battery of psychological
                                    tests but who do not receive the coaching. Is this ethical? What
                                    benefits, if any, do they receive for taking part?




Putting Ethics Into Practice
So much for the principles of ethics. How do researchers actually abide
                            by these principles in practice? Next, we look at the various stages
                            involved.



Top Tip: Ethics in Research



Writing Proposals
As we have seen in Chapter 3, when commencing an
                                academic dissertation or thesis, or when embarking on a piece of
                                consultancy, it is often necessary to compose a proposal or research
                                protocol. The proposal will then be evaluated by the Research Ethics
                                Committee (sometimes referred to as an Institutional Review Board)
                                of the researcher's institution - as in Case Study
                                4.3. In the past, the proposal usually constituted a description of
                                the purpose, objectives, methodology and approaches to data analysis
                                for the research. Today, however, with the growth of ethical
                                considerations, proposals may need an additional range of criteria,
                                as outlined in Table 4.4. Hence, the review
                                committee or board acts as a protective barrier between researchers
                                and potential participants; they act to raise awareness about the
                                importance of ethics; and they check to see if the research is
                                actually worth doing (that is, if the benefits outweigh the costs)
                                and whether the research duplicates previous work and whether the
                                methods proposed are likely to answer the research questions
                                (Alderson and Morrow, 2006). There are usually three potential
                                outcomes: the proposal is accepted without amendment and the
                                research goes ahead; problems are identified and the proposal has to
                                be amended in line with the board's recommendations and
                                resubmitted; the proposal is rejected, without the right to
                                resubmit. Note that if you are a student, it is your supervisor who
                                may have to be named as the principal investigator.



Proposal Protocol




Getting Written Approval From Research Sites
Researching in organizations, or even using shopping-mall intercept
                                surveys (where you stop passers-by to ask them questions) needs
                                prior approval from the organization that owns the premises or
                                property. It is essential that this is written approval which will
                                often have to be obtained from the organization's
                                'head-office'. Approval may require long lead times,
                                so this needs to be planned into research schedules. In asking for
                                approval, researchers will need to use their own
                                organization's headed letter paper so that the request looks
                                as official as possible. The purpose of the research and the
                                possible benefits to the organization should be outlined.





Top Tip 4.4
In attempting to gain approval from external organizations, make
                                    sure that any letter you write identifies at least one
                                    significant benefit the organization might gain from granting
                                    you access. Organizations are much more likely to cooperate with
                                    you if they think that they have something to gain - for
                                    example, a better knowledge of customers, improvements in
                                    internal communications, etc. In other words your research
                                    should identify some tangible outcomes.



Case Study 4.4

The Importance Of Getting Approval In Field
                                        Research
This is a true story. An MSc student whose dissertation
                                        project was focused on 'the retail experience'
                                        of shoppers decided that he would collect data, not just by
                                        intercepting shoppers in the street, but by entering a major
                                        UK department store with his video camera. He had not told
                                        his dissertation supervisor what he was going to do, and he
                                        had not approached the store to ask for permission for his
                                        activities. The first two minutes of his
                                        'ethnographic' data gathering went well. He
                                        filmed a number of shoppers browsing through the ladies
                                        clothes section. What he didn't realize, of course,
                                        was that the store security system was also filming him! As
                                        he peered through his lens, he noticed two very large
                                        security guards approaching him at speed. Still trying to
                                        mutter an explanation, he found himself grabbed by the
                                        guards and frog-marched rather unceremoniously to the store
                                        exit and to the pavement outside. End of data gathering. His
                                        supervisor later required him to write a letter of
                                        explanation to the store manager, with an apology.



Activity 4.5
Set out a plan for how this student should have set about
                                    ensuring consent for his project. Which stakeholders should he
                                    speak to and in what order?



Communicating With Sponsors And Participants
It will often be necessary to communicate with sponsors and/or
                                participants in order to explain the purposes of the research and to
                                elicit their cooperation. When doing this, letters or participant
                                information sheets should include all of the following:
A brief description of the project, in a form and language
                                        that can be easily understood by participants.The use of the study and any potential benefits to
                                        participants (including benefits to participants in control
                                        groups, if any).The obligations and commitments of the participants during
                                        the study particularly in terms of their time
                                        commitment.The right of participants to withdraw from the study without
                                        having to give a reason and an assurance of confidentiality
                                        of all identifiable information and data.The name and address of whom participants can contact if
                                        they have a complaint or concerns about the study, or just a
                                        need for more information. This might include the
                                        researcher's supervisor and/or contact details of the
                                        relevant ethics committee.



Communicating with Organizations


For surveys, the fact that a questionnaire is returned is usually
                                taken as an indication of consent, but this fact should be clearly
                                stated on the information sheet provided. Note that even when an
                                organization has given permission for the research to go ahead, it
                                is still essential that all participants are fully informed about
                                the aims of the project and their role within it. They may also be
                                required to sign consent forms - see the following
                                section.


Top Tip 4.5
In order to give the information sheet or letter the necessary
                                    credibility, it is usual to print the content on your
                                    institution's letterheaded paper. If you are a student,
                                    it often helps if you can get your tutor or research supervisor
                                    to also add their signature to the letter.



Issuing Consent Forms
These are used when participants are involved in focus groups,
                                interviews or similar forms of data gathering. Typically, the
                                information given in such forms will include: how the information is
                                going to be collected (e.g. through digital recording), how the data
                                are going to be stored, and whether participants are going to be
                                directly quoted. It is essential that consent forms are clear about
                                the right of participants to withdraw at any time. An example of
                                such a form is given in Table
                                    4.5.


Practical Steps For Avoiding Harm
There are various ways in which a researcher can cause physical,
                                psychological or emotional harm, or even just embarrassment. It is
                                essential, then, that the researcher identifies any potential for
                                harm and takes steps to alleviate the situation. For example, if the
                                research project is focused on bullying in the workplace, it would
                                be prudent to identify counselling or other support services, should
                                respondents show signs of distress and need to be referred for
                                help.



Management Research





Perspectives On Research Ethics
We have seen that ethical principles and processes are of increasing
                            concern for Institutional Review Boards (IRBs) and that all research
                            should strive to avoid harm to participants, gain informed consent,
                            respect the privacy of individuals and avoid the use of deception. This
                            is an example of what Guillemin and Gillam (2004) call procedural
                                ethics. We also saw how challenging it can be to apply these
                            principles to research practice. However, a different approach,
                                situational ethics (Guillemin and Gillam, 2004), is concerned
                            with the often subtle and sometimes complex ways in which ethics must be
                            applied to practice. To these, Ellis (2007) adds relational
                                ethics, closely related to the ethics of care and feminist
                            ethics where the researcher attempts to be true to one's
                            character and responsible for one's actions and their
                            consequences on others. Relational ethics are based on the values of
                            mutual respect, dignity and connectedness between the researcher and the
                            researched, recognizing that these relationships constantly change over
                            time.
In recent years, a division has emerged between those who support
                            mainstream codes of ethics (traditionalists) and those who offer
                            counter-arguments to this stance (radicals) (Ferdinand, Pearson, Rowe,
                            and Worthington, 2007). The radical perspective, for example, rejects
                            the authority of codes of ethics on the basis that being ethical is not
                            something that can be measured against the kind of checklist favoured by
                            IRBs. Ethics requires self-regulation mediated through self-reflexivity
                            (Alvesson and Deetz, 2000). This does not mean that researchers can do
                            anything they like, but that they assess the actual situation their
                            research is embedded in. In contrast, however, Bryman and Bell (2007)
                            call for caution, arguing that it assumes that researchers are aware of
                            what constitutes an ethical issue and that they are prepared to regulate
                            their own behaviour. They further suggest that in the case of management
                            research, for example, ethical frameworks have been adopted that were
                            originally developed by social researchers in related disciplines such
                            as psychology or sociology or by organizations such as the Market
                            Research Society. This is despite the fact that management researchers
                            often face different types of ethical situations from other social
                            researchers. Whether ethical frameworks enhance the reputation of
                            management researchers, or act as limiters on the individual
                            researcher's professional autonomy, is also likely to be an
                            ongoing source of argument and debate. However, whatever the arguments
                            for and against these propositions, what is less contentious is that
                            most undergraduate and postgraduate researchers are inadequately
                            prepared for integrating ethical norms into their research.




That said, Bell and Bryman (2007)
                            raise some important concerns about the value of many current ethical
                            frameworks to management research. Although undoubtedly they can be
                            important, for example, when students use their fellow students in their
                            research sample, when investigating the world outside the university,
                            researchers are often at a disadvantage. This is because, although
                            gaining 'informed consent' is laudable in principle, in
                            practice it fails to recognize the power imbalance between researchers
                            and organizations (Bell and Bryman, 2007). When managers, for example,
                            are the subject of a research project, they tend to exert more power and
                            possess higher status than the researchers themselves. For example, the
                            views of a chief executive on the legitimacy or accuracy of the research
                            outcomes into, say, the leadership style in their organization, would
                            probably count for more in the public eye than those of the
                            researcher.
Organizations can also determine what they will allow to be considered as
                            a legitimate focus for a study and what they regard as 'out of
                            bounds'. Hence, researchers can be required to sign
                            confidentiality agreements before conducting the research, restricting
                            what information they can later disclose about the organization,
                            including ways in which the identity of the organization is hidden. Yet
                            the meaning of a case is often only understood with reference to key
                            details, which can include the geographical location of the
                            organization, its history and brand image (Bell and Bryman, 2007). It is
                            also not always clear from ethical frameworks whether confidentiality
                            alludes to individual participants or their organizations.


Ethics And The Internet
The Internet can be a valuable tool for gathering data, either through
                            the use of online questionnaires, or through the facilitation of online
                            discussion or focus groups. However, some serious ethical issues can
                            arise. One problem is sampling - certain social or racial groups
                            being under-represented in terms of Internet usage, means that samples
                            may be skewed or unrepresentative. Another problem is that interviewers
                            can never be absolutely sure that the comments given by respondents are
                            not accessed and viewed by prying computer hackers. There is also the
                            danger that some respondents might fake or alter their identities,
                            personalities or roles during online interactions. For example,
                            respondents may be less embarrassed about giving deliberately false
                            information when completing an online survey than when, say, facing an
                            interviewer face-to-face. Furthermore, there is less opportunity for
                            determining the accuracy of responses. When using live interviews, the
                            interviewer has an opportunity to observe the body language and hear the
                            vocal tones of respondents, allowing for some corroboration of the
                            honesty of the responses given. This, however, is clearly more limited
                            with online interactions - although an application such as Skype
                            with its video content can help here. The researcher-informant
                            relationship is inevitably modified by the electronic environment
                            (DeLorme et al., 2001).



Internet Research Ethics


An important and growing source of interpersonal communication is through
                            Internet chatrooms (for real time discussions) and forums (where
                            discussions are posted as threads), so it is no surprise that the
                            content and interactions within such facilities have become of
                            increasing interest to researchers. However, as Hudson and Bruckman
                            (2004) point out, a wide range of ethical dilemmas present themselves,
                            including:
Is it ethical to enter a chatroom and record its contents for
                                    research purposes?Is it necessary to obtain informed consent before entering?Is it sufficient merely to announce the researcher's
                                    presence and invite participants to opt out?How should data collected in chatrooms be protected?


On The Web 4.4
The following provides an example of an Internet discussion forum for
                                which Hudson and Bruckman's (2004) concerns about online
                                ethics still apply:

http://www.methodspace.com/forum/topics/using-online-discussion-forums

This page is taken from Sage's Methodspace site, which
                                provides a wealth of information and discussions about research
                                methods and the views of experienced researchers.



In attempting to determine the appropriate ethical approach, Hudson and
                            Bruckman (2004) adopt a number of different metaphors to describe the
                            Internet, each of which leads to a different conclusion about how human
                            subjects in chatrooms should be treated (see Table 4.6).
                            In some Internet spaces, the comments of authors clearly show that they
                            regard their conversations as private, so the usual ethical conventions
                            that apply to human subject research would come into play. The situation
                            becomes more complicated when within the same forum one set of
                            participants are promoting a political cause, whilst others are using it
                            as a private space.
In a research study by Hudson and Bruckman (2004) (approved by the
                            Institutional Review Board [ethics committee] of their workplace), the
                            researchers entered a total of 525 chatrooms to measure how participants
                            react to online studies. They found an overwhelmingly negative reaction
                            to being studied without prior consent. When given the option to
                            'opt in' to the study only 4 out of 766 individuals did
                            so, implying that attempting to gain consent for studying online
                            chatrooms is simply impractical. Hence, researching online chatrooms is
                            only practical when the research is covert.


Source: Adapted from Hudson and
                                Bruckman, 2004. Reprinted by kind permission of the Taylor &
                                Francis Group

Since this is potentially unethical, the researchers conclude that the
                            only ethical step is to attempt to gain prior ethical approval for a
                            covert study from the relevant ethics committee. In doing this, the
                            researcher cannot claim that respondents will be anonymous, even if they
                            are using pseudonyms (which is often the case) since Internet Protocol
                            addresses can always be traced back to individual computers. Another
                            concern that an ethics committee would have to take into account would
                            be the danger of minors becoming research subjects. In chatrooms, it is
                            virtually impossible to ascertain the age of those taking part. Given
                            the growing number of children using the Internet, it is likely that
                            some minors will be caught in the net of chatroom research. Since
                            research that involves minors requires more stringent subject
                            protection, the ethics committee might wish to discuss the implications
                            of this in detail. Hudson and
                            Bruckman (2004) argue that an ethics committee will waive informed
                            consent only when four criteria have been met, namely:
The research involves no more than minimal risk to
                                    participants.Any waiver of informed consent will not adversely affect the
                                    rights or welfare of the subjects.The research could not be practically carried out without the
                                    waiver.Whenever appropriate, subjects will be provided with additional
                                    pertinent information after participation.
So, in the case of their own research, Hudson and Bruckman pointed
                            chatroom participants to a website where the purpose and methodology of
                            the study was explained. We will return to ethical issues and the
                            Internet later, in Chapter 16.
Image 4.3 Using
                                the Web as a research tool© iStock.com / TommL

Activity 4.6
Go to the website of the Association of Internet Research (http://aoir.org/) and look for the link to Ethics Working
                                Group where you will find the Association's 33-page ethics
                                report, endorsed by the AoIR executive committee in 2012. What
                                guidelines provided by the report might be valid for your own
                                project? Also take a look at the extensive bibliography for sources
                                that might be useful.



Researching Ethically In Your Own Organization
If you are a part-time student or someone acting in an internal
                            consultancy capacity, you may need or want to undertake research in your
                            own organization. Being internal to an organization means that you often have a clearer
                            understanding of the issues requiring research, or you may have a
                            sponsor that has asked you to work on a particular project. In either
                            case, working internally is often beneficial because you have easier
                            access to resources, including human resources. However, familiarity
                            with an organization can also lead to problems, particularly protecting
                            the anonymity of respondents, many of whom may be known to the
                            researcher. The fact that the researcher may be known to participants
                            can also lead some to not answer as honestly as they otherwise would, or
                            even to withdraw from participation. Note that even though you may have
                            obtained organizational permission to conduct the research, this does
                            not mean that employees are required to participate. Ideally, the
                            organization should be able to identify the most suitable participants
                            for the project, but after that, participation should be entirely
                            voluntary. If you detect the slightest whiff of coercion, then the
                            research should not proceed.

Top Tip 4.6
There are a number of approaches to ensure that the rights of
                                individuals within organizations you are familiar with are not
                                breached. Polonsky (1998) suggests:
Getting others in the organization to collect the data
                                        anonymously.Having another member of the research team (if there is
                                        one), but not involved in the firm, collect the data.Using reply-paid envelopes and drop-off boxes for responses
                                        in the case of surveys.



Adhering to Ethical Practices





It needs to be stressed that not only should responses be anonymous they
                            must be seen to be anonymous by participants. If this is not the
                            case, then it is more than likely that return rates on surveys will be
                            lower than otherwise, and refusal rates for interviews will be
                            higher.


Ethics And Research Reports
Even if research has been conducted using sound designs and carefully
                            constructed data gathering tools, it is still possible for researchers
                            to damage their efforts 'at the last fence' by producing a
                            research report, or dissertation, that contains errors or is misleading.
                            Ethics, then, also plays an important role at this stage of the research
                            process. The ethics of report writing is discussed in greater detail at
                            the end of Chapter 26.


A Checklist Of Ethical Issues
Table 4.7 provides a brief checklist of some of the issues we
                            have explored so far. The Case Study and Activity which follow provide
                            you with an opportunity to apply some of these principles, and
                            illustrate some of the complexities of trying to adopt an ethical stance
                            in 'real world' situations.



Source: Adapted from Patton,
                                2002


Case Study 4.5

Ethical Dilemmas In Research
A financial services company implements a new information
                                    technology system that gives email capability to all employees,
                                    irrespective of grade. After 12 months, company directors are
                                    anxious to know if the investment is providing a financial
                                    payback. One indicator is whether the email facility is
                                    improving inter-employee communication and general productivity.
                                    Hence, they want an analysis of email traffic. An external
                                    researcher is commissioned to conduct the study.
She decides to use a blend of quantitative and qualitative
                                    methods. On the quantitative side, negotiating access to the
                                    information poses no problems, since all she has to do is
                                    contact the head of information services. Given that this is a
                                    legitimate company project, commissioned by the executive board,
                                    he is obliged to give the researcher free access to whatever
                                    information she requests.
For the qualitative side of the research she wants to interview a
                                    sample of 40 employees. Believing that imposing herself on these
                                    people would be unethical, she writes to all of them
                                    individually requesting access, and provides details of the
                                    purpose of the research, how the information is being collected,
                                    and who will read the final report. She had made a request to
                                    the executive board that she should be allowed to provide a
                                    summary of the final report to all respondents but this was
                                    refused. Despite her reassurances, only 12 of the original
                                    sample agree to being interviewed, most excusing themselves on
                                    the basis that they are too busy. One option would be to obtain
                                    an instruction from the managing director, ordering everyone to
                                    cooperate. She decides, however, that, not only would this be
                                    counter-productive, it would be unethical on a number of grounds
                                    not least because the responses would no longer be voluntary.
                                    Eventually, she decides that these 12 in-depth interviews will
                                    be sufficient to yield high-quality data.
Having set up the
                                    interviews, the researcher first turns to the quantitative
                                    analysis of the emails, which she intends to place into a number
                                    of categories. However, as the research progresses, she
                                    discovers a significant number of personal emails, including
                                    jokes, a betting syndicate, plans for illicit liaisons and
                                    inflammatory comments about senior managers and the executive
                                    board!
The researcher now faces a difficult ethical dilemma. She decides
                                    to include general descriptions of the personal emails in her
                                    report but not to reveal the names of individuals (although it
                                    will not be difficult for the company to trace them given that
                                    it now has an email audit trail). She also decides that
                                    she will ask some questions about personal emails in her
                                    interviews to gain an employee perspective. Before doing this,
                                    she takes another look at her letter to the interviewees and the
                                    description of her research. She decides that the description,
                                    'To investigate the purpose of email traffic' is
                                    still valid and an additional letter flagging the new
                                    'personal email' probe is not necessary.
                                    Participants will still be given the assurance that they can
                                    refuse to answer any question and that their responses will be
                                    anonymous.



Activity 4.7
Examine Case Study 4.5 and consider the following questions:
Is the research conducted by a researcher or a consultant?
                                        Does it make any difference to the ethical issues
                                        involved?Have sufficient steps been taken to safeguard ethical
                                        principles? Are there any additional steps that you would
                                        take?Should the research be abandoned before the qualitative
                                        stage?
Suggested answers are provided at the end of the chapter.



Safety Issues For Researchers
Safety is probably not an issue that is uppermost in the minds of most
                            researchers as they plan their research. Often, respondents are known to
                            the researcher, or if using interviews to collect data, these are
                            conducted over the telephone or in a public place. Occasionally,
                            however, a study may require that interviews are conducted in
                            someone's home or isolated work location in circumstances where
                            the respondent is not known to the researcher. Kenyon and Hawker (1999)
                            raised this issue in an email discussion with fellow researchers (see Case Study 10.2 in Chapter 10, p. 256). While most
                            researchers (thankfully) have never experienced any problem, a minority
                            had, and as the authors comment: 'once would be enough'.
                            Their email survey helped them to compile a list of 'best
                            practice' guidelines for researcher safety, presented in Table 4.8. Once again, it must be
                            emphasized that the majority of interviewers face no significant
                            problems in conducting their research. But as these guidelines make
                            clear, it is better to be safe than sorry - so adhere to the
                            checklist in Table 4.8 as well as the section on
                            Ethical principles, above.



Source: Adapted from Kenyon and
                                Hawker, 1999. Reproduced by kind permission of the Taylor &
                                Francis Group



Summary
Research ethics refers to the moral principles guiding research,
                                    conducting research in a responsible and morally defensible
                                    way.In recent years there has been a substantial growth in ethical
                                    frameworks, constructed by professional associations and other
                                    institutions such as universities. This is to promote higher
                                    professional standards but also out of a concern for avoiding
                                    legal action by respondents.Any research involving the study of human populations can
                                    involve ethical considerations, but particularly research that
                                    deals with vulnerable groups involves sensitive topics that
                                    could cause distress or anxiety, or involves any element of
                                    deception.Central to the principles of research are that it should: avoid
                                    harm to participants; ensure informed consent of individuals and
                                    the organizations they work for; respect the privacy of
                                    participants; and avoid deception.In most cases, institutions will expect researchers to complete
                                    a proposal or ethical protocol which an institutional review
                                    board will then evaluate.In gaining participants' cooperation, consent forms
                                    should be used which describe the purpose of the study and what
                                    is being asked of respondents.The Internet is a relatively new source of data with no
                                    governing body to set down ethical standards. Researchers should
                                    adopt the ethical framework of their institution or professional
                                    association, noting that ethical approaches to data gathering on
                                    the Internet are still emerging.Researching your own organization raises particular challenges
                                    about ensuring informed consent and genuine anonymity of
                                    respondents.Safety issues apply just as much to researchers as they do to
                                    respondents. You must ensure that you always take the necessary
                                    precautions to ensure your own safety when conducting
                                    research.

Review Questions
To what extent would you agree with the view that research
                                        should rely on a relativist ethical position - rules
                                        or duties may vary across different communities and
                                        professional groups. What examples could you suggest to
                                        support your view?If research should go beyond not causing harm and instead
                                        aim to create positive benefits for participants, what
                                        benefits could you claim for your own research?If researchers should be self-regulating rather than under
                                        the jurisdiction of Institutional Review Boards, should this
                                        also apply to student researchers?Is it more difficult to abide to ethical standards when
                                        researching one's own organization or one with which
                                        one has a personal or professional connection?



Further Reading
Israel, M. and Hay, I. (2006) Research Ethics for Social
                                Scientists. London: Sage. Explores ethical codes in a wide range
                            of different countries, and the tensions that have emerged between
                            researchers and regulators. Particularly useful for those for whom
                            ethics itself is a focus of their research.
Miller, T., Birch, M., Mauthner, M. and Jessop, J. (2012) Ethics in
                                Qualitative Research. London: Sage. This book explores key
                            ethical dilemmas - including research boundaries, access
                            (including the role of gatekeepers), gaining informed consent,
                            participation, rapport and analysis - within the context of a
                            rapidly changing research environment.
Oliver, P. (2010) The Student's Guide to Research Ethics,
                            2nd edn. Maidenhead: OUP. A clearly written and comprehensive look at
                            ethics, both in terms of the overall research process and then by
                            individual ethical themes. A series of imagined dialogues between two
                            researchers gives the reader an insight into the ethical complexities we
                            face in research.
Sales, B.D. and Folkman, S. (eds) (2000) Ethics in Research with Human
                                Participants. Washington DC: American Psychological Association.
                            All the essentials including ethical ways of recruiting participants,
                            gaining informed consent, privacy and confidentiality issues, written by
                            experts in the field.



Journal Resources
Reedy, P. (2008) 'Mirror, Mirror, on the Wall: Reflecting on the
                            ethics and effects of a collective critical management studies identity
                            project', Management Learning, 39(1): 57-72.
                            Explores the relationship between the identity of critical management
                            studies (CMS) academics and that of managers who are often represented
                            as culpable dupes. This raises ethical problems as it runs against the
                            espoused aims of CMS research.
Rivière, D. (2011) 'Looking from the outside/in:
                            Re-thinking research ethics review', Journal of Academic
                                Ethics, 9(3): 193-204. The author shares her reflections
                            on the research ethics review process, from the point of view of both a
                            qualitative researcher and as a member of an institutional research
                            ethics review board.
Stanton, J.M. and Rogelberg, S.G. (2001) 'Using Internet/Intranet
                            web pages to collect organizational research data',
                                Organizational Research Methods, 4(3): 200-217.
                            Provides an overview of the technological challenges for collecting
                            organizational data through the Internet and Web and goes on to discuss
                            the validity of such research and its ethical implications.


Suggested Answers For Activity 4.7
Since the researcher is hired from outside the organization, it
                                    is probably fair to call her a consultant. Does this make a
                                    difference to the ethical stance adopted? Well, possibly, yes.
                                    Researchers, for example, may be measured against the code of
                                    conduct of their relevant professional association. Consultants
                                    may also have a professional association, but also have to
                                    answer to the research sponsor or manager who will tend to be
                                    more concerned with 'results'.The consultant has adopted a number of ethical safeguards,
                                    including asking for participation and providing information
                                    about the purposes of the research.If this project was being conducted in an academic research
                                    context it would probably have to be abandoned. But for the
                                    consultant, while needing to give due weight to
                                    stakeholders' interests, the interests of the client come
                                    first.

Don't forget to visit the companion website at https://study.sagepub.com/grayresearchbusiness for the
                                following resources which support this chapter:


















5 Searching, Critically Reviewing
                        And Using The Literature In Business

Chapter Introduction

Chapter Outline
What function does the literature serve?The literature search journeyThe literature search processSearching source materialsThe process of critically evaluating sourcesManaging informationSynthesizing and integrating search resultsStructure and content of the literature reviewPositioning the literature reviewReferencing sourcesDoing a critical literature reviewUndertaking a systematic review


Keywords
Literature reviewSearch termsBibliographic databasesGoogle ScholarEvaluating sourcesKappa scoreCritical reviewSystematic review



Icon Key







Author Video







Chapter Objectives
After reading this chapter you will be able to:
Describe the purpose and importance of a literature
                                        search.Plan the literature search process.Identify suitable sources for the literature.Evaluate sources.Position the literature review.



Unless the research is completely inductive in nature, it is likely that
                            you will undertake a comprehensive literature review at the start of
                            your research project. As noted in Chapter 3,
                            the literature review demonstrates the essential theories, arguments and
                            controversies in the field and highlights the ways in which research in
                            the area has been undertaken by others. Crucially, some of the purposes
                            of the literature review are to identify the gaps in knowledge that are
                            worthy of further investigation, challenge current ideas or take an
                            accepted theory but apply it in a new field. This chapter looks at the
                            process of planning the literature search, methods for locating
                            information sources, plus retrieving and managing the flow of
                            information. Having found relevant literature, an important stage is
                            knowing how to review it and to evaluate its worth critically. Finally,
                            the chapter also provides some guidance on where to place the literature
                            review within an academic piece of work.


What Function Does The Literature Serve?
A researcher cannot conduct significant research without first
                            understanding the literature in the field of study (Boote and Beile,
                            2005). A comprehensive literature review allows for what Shulman (1999)
                            calls 'generativity', that is, the ability of researchers
                            to build upon the scholarship of those who have come before.
                            Generativity helps to develop both integrity and sophistication in
                            research. This, however, is easier to generate where there is an
                            established research community and a canon of shared knowledge (and
                            accepted methodologies). It is harder to generate in fields that are not
                            well established or where knowledge is fragmented or contested.



Literature Review


One of the features of any project is that it should enable you to
                            demonstrate a critical awareness of the relevant knowledge in the field.
                            A comprehensive review of the literature is essential because it serves
                            a number of purposes, including:
Providing an up-to-date understanding of the subject, its
                                    significance and structure.Identifying significant issues and themes that present
                                    themselves for further research particularly where there are
                                    gaps in current knowledge.Guiding the development of research topics and questions.Assisting future researchers in understanding why the research
                                    was undertaken, its design and direction, and helping others to
                                    replicate the research process.Presenting the kinds of research methodologies and tools that
                                    have been used in other studies which may guide the design of
                                    the proposed study.
The last point, above, demonstrates that when we talk about the
                            'literature review' we are really discussing two
                            literatures. One literature, then, describes the focus of the study, but
                            another vitally important literature is that concerned with research
                            methods. This means that the methodology chapter in particular has to
                            engage with this literature, not just discussing which research designs,
                            approaches and tools have been used, but the academic sources that
                            describe and justify them.
The literature review is not something you complete early in the project
                            and then put to one side. It is likely to continue almost to the writing
                            up stage, especially since your own research may generate new issues and
                            ideas that you will want to investigate through the literature. As we
                            saw in Chapter 2, if you are adopting a
                            deductive approach to your study, your literature review will help to
                            provide a source for the focus of your research, including aims,
                            objectives and, in some cases, hypotheses. Conversely, if you favour a
                            more inductive approach, you may begin with the collection and analysis
                            of data, a process that leads to questions that are then addressed
                            through engagement with the literature.

Case Study 5.1

Using The Literature To Identify Research
                                    Methods
A group of researchers have been commissioned to conduct a study
                                    on 'whistleblowing' in organizations,
                                    whistleblowing being a situation when an employee reports
                                    suspected wrongdoing at work. A series of national high profile
                                    cases has led many organizations to develop internal policies
                                    and procedures that allow employees to raise concerns when they
                                    suspect unethical or even illegal activities. The researchers
                                    begin by consulting the body of literature on the subject.
                                    However, as Dasgupta and Kesharwani (2010) point out, relatively
                                    little research has been done about the types of organizational
                                    wrongdoings reported on, the whistleblowing process, and the
                                    laws that protect whistleblowers from organizational
                                    retaliation. The researchers note that where the literature
                                    exists, it tends to focus on case studies of individual
                                    organizations rather than large-scale surveys. To back up their
                                    literature search, the researchers also decide to consult
                                    industry experts, particularly professional associations that
                                    represent human resource managers.



Understanding Literature Reviews





Activity 5.1
For your own study, make a list of experts in the field. If you are
                                unsure as to who these might be, identify which names appear most
                                frequently in the reference section of key academic articles. Show
                                the list to your supervisor to elicit feedback.




The Literature Search Journey
At the outset you may have only a general notion of your research theme
                            (for example, performance management in an organization, corporate web
                            strategy, the organization of lean logistics, etc.). This is obviously
                            where you will start. It may happen, however, that your reading takes
                            you down some unanticipated paths. This is acceptable, as long as it
                            results in a coherent topic for your research. Alternatively, your
                            initial theme may appear too wide (for example, brands in marketing),
                            and through reading the relevant literature you may be able to focus on
                            a specific area of the topic which is actually feasible to implement
                            (for example, getting a new brand image accepted and promoted by an
                            organization).
Planning the literature search is not like getting on a train and
                            travelling from A to B. You may have a general intention of getting to
                            B, but your route may involve several modes of transport (sources) and
                            you may find yourself travelling sideways or sometimes backwards!
                            Indeed, you may even decide when on your journey that you intend to
                            travel to C instead! Planning, then, means aiming for a destination
                            (even though this goal may change) and knowing where the modes of
                            transport and timetables are. To modify Hart's (2001) analogy of
                            trawling and mining, the research process is about touring (looking
                            around) and camping (stopping to explore in more depth), as Figure 5.1 shows. Notice that the
                            travelling process involves an enticing journey around the literature.
                            But camping involves a more discriminating approach, selecting,
                            synthesizing and analysing in more detail. By the end of the literature
                            search journey, you will be familiar with the history of the subject,
                            the key sources and authors, and methodological approaches, theories and
                            findings. Above all, you will be familiar with the problems, debates,
                            arguments and uncertainties within the territory, and these should begin
                            to clarify your own concerns, objectives and research focus.
Figure 5.1 Touring
                                and camping to acquire, analyse and synthesize informationSource: Adapted from Hart, 2001



The Literature Search Process
A literature search is defined by Fink as 'a systematic, explicit,
                            and reproducible method for identifying, evaluating, and synthesizing
                            the existing body of completed and recorded work produced by
                            researchers, scholars, and practitioners' (2005: 3). To achieve
                            this, it is necessary to focus on high-quality research rather than rely
                            on the second-hand interpretations of others. Note that the kinds of
                            sources that can be used are discussed later on in the chapter.

Selecting The Research Focus And Questions
In identifying your research focus you will have developed an
                                'angle' (as discussed in the previous section) which
                                hopefully serves to define and narrow the subject area. After this,
                                you may decide to focus on one sub-theme more than another. Whether
                                research questions are formulated at the start of the research, or
                                during it, will depend on the attitude of the researcher to
                                inductive or deductive methods. Clearly, the literature search is
                                made easier if the research questions have been formulated, if only
                                because they provide a focus and key terms for conducting the
                                research. In many cases, however, it is more than likely that sets
                                of coherent research questions will flow from the literature
                                review.


Choosing Search Terms
Provided that research questions, or at least the research focus,
                                have been clearly formulated, it then becomes possible to choose
                                appropriate search terms - usually because they are contained
                                in the research question or theme itself. Take, for example, the
                                research question, 'What is the relationship between having a
                                mentor and a woman manager's career development?' We
                                have three concepts: mentoring, women managers and career
                                development. These terms, often called identifiers, are the key
                                words that will be searched on. A search in the EBSCO bibliographic
                                database on the term 'mentor' yielded 5,924
                                'hits', clearly an unmanageable number. Before
                                inputting the term 'career development' a check was
                                made that it was contained in the bibliographic site's
                                thesaurus (database of terms). It was found that this was the case.
                                A search using the term 'career development' produced
                                an even more daunting 6,607 hits. Putting the terms
                                'mentors' and 'career development'
                                together, however, came up with 327 hits, suggesting articles that
                                probably have greater relevance to the proposed study. Adding a
                                further term, 'women' narrowed the search down to a
                                mere 55 hits, and changing 'women' into 'women
                                managers' reduced the total down to a mere 4. However,
                                narrowing down the search too far can run the risk of missing some
                                vital studies. In this case it would be fruitful to scroll through,
                                say, the 'mentors/career development/women' hits as
                                these studies might reveal themes and issues that are of relevance
                                to women managers but have not been considered by the
                                researcher.
Searches are often conducted using Boolean operators such as AND, OR,
                                or NOT. Hence, in the example above, a search was made for mentors
                                AND career development. If it is certain that the main focus should
                                be on mentoring but not on its near cousin, coaching, then the
                                search could include the operator NOT coaching in one of the search
                                fields. Using Boolean operators provides much greater control over
                                the searching process. If the number of hits is still excessively
                                large, some researchers refine the search using the same search
                                terms but on abstracts rather than full articles.


Top Tip 5.1
Conducting a search using key terms can often be frustrating,
                                    especially when it reveals either no or very few hits of any
                                    relevance. If this happens, check in the database's
                                    thesaurus that the term is used by the database. Then try
                                    modifying the terms you are searching under. If you still have
                                    no luck, consider inputting your terms into a different
                                    database.



Effective Literature Searching





Sequencing The Search
There is no strict order in which you have to locate source
                                materials. Creswell (2009), however, suggests that the following
                                order is helpful:
Journal articles. But ensure that you concentrate on
                                        peer-reviewed journals. This is not to say that you should
                                        always avoid, say, professional magazines or periodicals.
                                        Articles in credible, peer-reviewed journals, however, are
                                        scrutinized for their relevance, originality and validity by
                                        other academic researchers. Hence, the quality and
                                        reliability of such articles, while not guaranteed, is more
                                        assured.Books. Begin with research monographs that are
                                        summaries of the academic literature on a particular
                                        subject. Then look at complete books on a single topic or
                                        ones that contain chapters written by different authors.
                                        Note, however, that textbooks quickly become dated, so it is
                                        best to use them in conjunction with other sources.Conference papers. These often contain the most
                                        up-to-date information and developments in research. Recall
                                            Chapter 3 in which it
                                        was argued that working knowledge is not in books but in
                                        conference papers, seminars and unpublished academic
                                        papers.
In contrast, Hart (2001) advises that the best start is delving into
                                a library's quick reference section, where you can find
                                sources such as guides to the literature, dictionaries, directories
                                and encyclopaedias. After this, the focus becomes one of using books
                                and bibliographies in more detail. Clearly, there are alternative
                                approaches! Try dipping into the reference sources and see what you
                                find the most rewarding.
Having conducted the literature search, it is important to check that
                                no essential articles have been overlooked. One way to do this is by
                                asking a subject matter expert in the field, or to examine one of
                                the reference sections of a key high-quality article or literature
                                source. It is not always necessary to download or print off such an
                                article, because the bibliographic database often provides a list of
                                the references cited by articles.



Searching Source Materials
We have looked at the literature search process, including defining the
                            research focus or questions and establishing search criteria. We now
                            explore a wide variety of potential research sources. These are not
                            offered in any particular order of priority, although as we have just
                            seen, Creswell (2009) suggests using academic articles first, followed
                            by books and then conference papers. Perhaps the best advice is that you
                            should be flexible and, above all, persistent in your searches. Table 5.1 offers a brief overview
                            of some of the sources.



Selection of Databases





Source: Adapted from Hart, 2001


Articles
There are, essentially, two types of journal article: academic
                                articles written in peer-reviewed journals and articles published in
                                professional journals (that are not usually peer-reviewed). How do
                                you tell the difference? There are no strict rules here, but typical
                                features of peer-reviewed articles include:
The journal features a page with a list of reviewers, most
                                        of whom emanate from international universities.Details are provided on how to submit an article for
                                        consideration by the journal; these will include the kinds
                                        of academic fields the journal is interested in.



Peer Review


If you only have access to an article rather than the full journal,
                                its quality will usually be evident by the academic rigour of its
                                contents, including its description of methodology and/or concepts
                                and the use of formal language, as well as the number of sources in
                                the reference section. Articles in non-peer-reviewed publications
                                (such as professional journals or magazines) come with few, if any,
                                references and are more informal in tone. Both kinds of article can
                                be accessed through bibliographic and abstracting databases.

Top Tip 5.2
Before reading an academic article, read the article's
                                    abstract first.This provides a concise summary of the
                                    article's main arguments and contribution. It will guide
                                    you as to whether the full article is worth reading or not.



Top Tip: Using Academic
                                            Literature







Searching Bibliographic Databases
A bibliographic database is an electronic (usually online) source
                                    that provides an index to articles and other materials, plus
                                    abstracts, citations and either the full article itself or links
                                    to where the article can be accessed. Most academic institutions
                                    provide students with free access to a number of bibliographic
                                    databases. Unfortunately, no single database is sufficient to
                                    cover all articles or materials in existence, so it is usually a
                                    case of having to use more than one database to access the
                                    articles required. There are five main bibliographic
                                    sources:
Online public bibliographic databases (e.g., EconLit,
                                            PsychINFO).Private bibliographic databases (e.g., EMBASE,
                                            PubMed).Specialized bibliographic databases (e.g., government
                                            reports, collections maintained by environmental,
                                            business and legal bodies).Manual and hand searches based upon references in
                                            articles.Using experts and authors.
Table 5.2 provides some
                                    examples of both public and private bibliographic databases,
                                    with Web addresses and a brief description of each.



Clearly, choosing between all the bibliographic database sites
                                    presented in Table 5.2 is not completely
                                    straightforward. If you are researching, say, the impact of new
                                    technology on the work
                                    behaviour of young employees, do you search in the information
                                    technology or the social science databases? The answer is
                                    probably both, since each might contain relevant articles but
                                    approaching the issue from different perspectives. Success in
                                    locating the right article(s) depends in large part on how well
                                    search terms are specified and your own determination. Another
                                    problem is that the same journal may be referenced in 20
                                    different databases. This is further complicated by the fact
                                    that these databases might cover journal issues dating back to
                                    different dates. Thus, no single database can be relied on to
                                    give comprehensive coverage - what we have is a
                                    'tangled maze' (Dochartaigh, 2007: 27). Hart
                                    (2001) advises that it is best to search the multi-subject
                                    indexes and abstracts first, and subject-specific abstracts (if
                                    there are any) last.
Some bibliographic databases are now allowing their contents to
                                    be searched via one of the popular search engines such as Yahoo
                                    or Google - especially Google Scholar, with its focus on
                                    academic articles. Google Scholar is a very useful way of
                                    performing a speedy search and offers a way of identifying a
                                    wide array of books, book chapters and articles. Sometimes these
                                    will be immediately available as a link to a website or as a pdf
                                    file. Even if these sources are not available, it may be
                                    possible to find, say, the article on a bibliographic database.
                                    Note that if you are accessing articles through a database your
                                    institution subscribes to, then downloading the article from
                                    this private site will be free of charge. If, however, your
                                    institution does not have a subscription and the bibliographic
                                    database is private (commercial) then you will usually have to
                                    pay for each article.

On The Web 5.1
Take a look at Google Scholar at:

http://scholar.google.co.uk/

Note that like most online search facilities you are able to
                                        perform an Advanced search, giving you more control over
                                        what you are looking for. A search on any topic will yield a
                                        list of sources, many of which will comprise the abstracts
                                        of books or book chapters or sample previews of the sources
                                        themselves. Before you get too excited, you will find that
                                        there will be vital missing pages from the book or article,
                                        meaning that you will eventually have to access the source
                                        itself. When scrolling down the Google Scholar list, look
                                        out for pdf files. Sometimes these are academic articles,
                                        but more often they are reports written by practitioners or
                                        professional associations. Using practitioner sources like
                                        these can provide a valuable complement to the use of
                                        scholarly articles.


Top Tip 5.3
If you have difficulty finding the full text of an article,
                                        do a Google search or use one of the other search engines to
                                        find a link to the author's home page. You may find
                                        not only the article, but other, more recent examples of the
                                        author's work you were unaware of.



Indexing And Abstracting Databases
Articles can be accessed through using either an indexing or
                                    abstracting tool. These provide citation details such as author,
                                    title of article, journal, and year and place of publication. Abstracting services,
                                    however, also give a brief synthesis and summary of what the
                                    article is about, which can be helpful. Since indexing services
                                    are not concerned with whether a journal provides full text
                                    articles or not, they are much more comprehensive in coverage
                                    than full text services. However, many abstracting services are
                                    now also providing links to full text articles. Hence, the
                                    distinction between abstracting and full text services is
                                    breaking down.
One citation database is the ISI Web of Science which provides
                                    information on who is citing who among academic scholars. It is
                                    possible, then, to see how important a particular article has
                                    become, by seeing how many times it has been cited in the
                                    reference section of other articles. It also provides an audit
                                    trail through long-term academic debates through the references
                                    that academics are making to previous works.



Web of Science



On The Web 5.2
Take a look at the following website:
Web of Science site at: http://apps.webofknowledge.com which provides a
                                        citation index for the social sciences, and the arts and
                                        humanities.
Also see ComAbstracts at: http://www.cios.org/ which deals with article
                                        abstracts, books and Internet materials on
                                        communication.




Books

Library Sources
One of the main sources for locating relevant books is the Online
                                    Public Access Catalogue (OPAC) of a library. These can usually
                                    be searched by subject, author, title and key words. They also
                                    often offer access to other online catalogues, and gateways.
                                    Using the Internet, you can access libraries across the world.
                                    For example, take a look at the BUBL Link public access
                                    catalogues, and locate the online public catalogues in your own
                                    country at: http://link.bubl.ac.uk/libraryopacs/.
When browsing in a library or bookshop, a useful evaluation
                                    procedure for deciding on whether a book is worth borrowing or
                                    purchasing is to look at a number of features, including
                                    the:
Title and subtitle - are they relevant?Preface - does it cover your subject area or at
                                            least an element of it, and is it at the right
                                            level?Contents list - does it offer material on your
                                            topic?Publisher - is the organization respected for
                                            publishing quality texts in your field?Bibliography - is there one, and do the
                                            references look familiar, at the appropriate level and
                                            'on topic'?


Online Bookshops
These provide a valuable supplement to library catalogues in that
                                    they often provide a detailed description of the book, including
                                    its contents and sometimes some sample pages. Amazon, for example, provides
                                    reviews by other readers as well as 'Customers who bought
                                    this item also bought', offering, at least potentially, a
                                    guide towards sources you were unaware of.



Theses And Dissertations
It is often a concern to researchers that the study they are about to
                                embark upon has been done before. An important early 'port of
                                call' is therefore the library of your own institution to see
                                what has been researched and published through theses and
                                dissertations. After this you can then go online and use the
                                    Index to Theses site. If you are able, for example, to
                                locate a thesis on a subject related to your own, you then have
                                access to a comprehensive list of references at the end of the
                                thesis.


Grey Literature
This is the sort of published and unpublished material that cannot be
                                identified through the usual bibliographic methods. A growing and
                                significant example here are websites, but grey literature also
                                includes academic theses and dissertations (as above), newspaper and
                                magazine articles, editorials, materials produced by business and
                                trade journals, reports, and publications by clubs and societies.
                                Many of these can be accessed through libraries or the websites of
                                professional associations and business.

On The Web 5.3
See the Grey Literature Network Service at: http://www.greynet.org/
The site provides Web links to a host of other grey literature
                                    sites, as well as archives on the subject of grey literature
                                    itself.



Reference Sources
When you are new to a subject, it is best to gain an overview of the
                                key arguments, authors and sources. Reference sources such as
                                dictionaries and encyclopaedias are often a good place to start.
                                Specialist encyclopaedias such as the International Encyclopaedia
                                    of the Social and Behavioural Sciences are particularly
                                useful. See the section in Chapter
                                    21 on academic sources for more on reference books, almanacs
                                and yearbooks.


Conference Papers
Conference proceedings (papers given at a conference and subsequently
                                published) are a valuable source of contemporary discussions in the
                                field. A disadvantage of using conference papers is that although
                                papers submitted to conferences are usually peer reviewed, this is
                                rarely performed with the same level of rigour as happens with
                                academic journals. Conference papers also often represent
                                'work-in-progress' rather than final, definitive
                                findings. Nevertheless, researchers can sometimes find them to be a
                                source of new ideas.


On The Web 5.4
You can receive email alerts about forthcoming conferences in
                                    subject areas such as Business, Banking and Finance, Business
                                    Ethics, Management, Human Resources, Marketing and e-Commerce.
                                    See:

http://www.conferencealerts.com/

Not only will this enable you to identify a conference you might
                                    wish to attend (or even give a paper at), but some conference
                                    websites provide links to the proceedings of previous
                                    years' conferences.



Official Publications, Statistics And Archives
These can be of enormous value to the researcher, but it will depend,
                                of course, on the extent to which a government collects these kinds
                                of data, and the level of access provided to the public. Of the kind
                                of material that is available, an increasing amount is finding its
                                way onto the Web. Sites that offer official statistics data are
                                discussed in some depth in Chapter
                                    21 on the use of secondary data sources.


Online Resources

Search Engines
Dochartaigh (2007) recommends that researchers search the
                                    academic literature before making use of search engines. This is
                                    because search engines can yield a fairly diverse and scattered
                                    set of sources which may be difficult to evaluate. Looking at
                                    the academic literature first will give you a greater critical
                                    understanding of their context and what is worth using. Search
                                    engines include:

www.google.com

www.yahoo.com

www.Ask.com

www.MSNSearch.com

Although Google currently enjoys the largest market share in
                                    terms of usage, it should be remembered that all search engines
                                    perform their searching using slightly different sets of
                                    criteria. This means that they are all likely to yield broadly
                                    similar but also a number of different results. Hence, it is
                                    worth using more than one of these search engines when looking
                                    for articles or data.


Wikipedia
Of course, no discussion of reference sources would be complete
                                    without mention of Wikipedia. Most academic institutions take a
                                    very negative view of students using Wikipedia as an academic
                                    source. So if you use Wikipedia to give you a
                                    'feel' of the subject, you should then progress to
                                    using more academic and scholarly sources. Never, under any
                                    circumstances, use Wikipedia as your main source.


Access To Reading Lists
Especially if you are new to a subject and simply do not know
                                    where to start, try using a course reading list that links to
                                    your subject area. This might be a course at your own institution. Today,
                                    however, thousands of course syllabi are being put onto the Web
                                    and this is often a useful place to find comprehensive reading
                                    lists.

On The Web 5.5
Take a look at the following web link: http://lib5.leeds.ac.uk/rlists/
The site provides a search engine for searching on specific
                                        subjects.



Publishers' Websites
Some publishers are now starting to offer resources on their
                                    websites. Sage, for example, has a very useful site
                                    (Methodspace) devoted to articles and other sources on research
                                    methods, all of which are free of charge. See: http://www.methodology.co.uk/



Social And Other Networks
So far we have focused on getting information from libraries and
                                other sources. In this section we look at how researchers can become
                                more proactive, communicating with individuals, organizations and
                                through networks. Many academics today make use of social media
                                websites for disseminating their work, often making available
                                pre-publication versions of articles.Two of the most popular are
                                presented in On the Web 5.6.

On The Web 5.6
Take a look at ResearchGate at: https://www.researchgate.net. Note that through this
                                    website, as well as searching for articles, you can pose
                                    questions to academic experts or follow discussions or debates
                                    on questions others have posed.
Academia.edu can be accessed at: https://www.academia.edu. This is another site from
                                    which sources can be accessed.



In addition to these resources, a lot of debate and discussion
                                between academics and scholars takes place via the Internet, often
                                through informal groups using various online communication tools.
                                One of the benefits of using these kinds of e-communities is gaining
                                access to up-to-date thinking and ideas in your field of interest.
                                There are many kinds of email lists often run by and for academics,
                                covering a huge range of subjects. Most of these lists are
                                unmoderated, that is, the list owner does not review every posting
                                before allowing it onto the site. There is, however, a basic
                                standard of etiquette (netetiquette) that members need to adhere to,
                                avoiding postings that might be offensive or inflammatory to other
                                members or the outside community.
One of the largest online communities is LinkedIn, which proclaims
                                itself as the world's largest professional network. Hence, it
                                is possible to link to friends, colleagues or others of similar
                                professional standing to yourself. But it is also possible to use
                                LinkedIn for research purposes. For example, you can set up a closed group (only those
                                you invite are permitted to join) or open group on a research topic
                                and host a discussion. The discussion itself could comprise part of
                                your data set for later analysis. Alternatively, if your aim is to
                                construct a questionnaire on a theme for which little has been
                                published, getting the comments of a professional or experienced
                                group via LinkedIn might help to identify key constructs.

On The Web 5.7
Take a look at Google Groups, one of the most comprehensive
                                    Usenet archives, where you can search for discussions on any
                                    research topic that interests you. See http://groups.google.com/. Using Google Groups you can
                                    also create a site of your own (say on your research subject)
                                    and attract members (fellow researchers or respondents) to
                                    it.



One of the most popular mailing lists is JISCmail (the Joint Academic
                                Mailing List service). You can search for a topic by category (for
                                example, social studies, humanities, business studies and computing)
                                which will give you a list of all the mailing lists in that
                                category. A search under business studies revealed subjects such as
                                'Total quality', 'Marketing' and
                                'Finance', each of which contained around 20 separate
                                mailing lists. 'Tourism', for example, contained 22
                                mailing lists for areas including 'Heritage',
                                'Hospitality Industries' and 'Maritime Leisure
                                Research'. Once you have joined a mailing list, you will find
                                that you start to receive emails from other members of the list
                                (directed, of course, not just to you but to all members of the
                                list). These might include questions, requests for advice or help,
                                or useful information on forthcoming workshops, seminars or
                                conferences. See JISCmail at: http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/index.htm
Last, and certainly not least, there is Facebook, which, given its
                                global reach, has a diverse and highly international audience. Used
                                by many as a recreational site, Facebook also has a serious side
                                which includes its use by businesses, organizations, governments
                                and, of course, researchers. Hence, inputting a search word or
                                phrase into the search bar can yield a surprising number of groups
                                and individuals who may also be interested in your research topic.
                                For example, using the search string 'qualitative research
                                groups' offers a vast array of both open and closed groups
                                through which you can, say, elicit advice on literature sources. You
                                can, of course, gauge the popularity and activity level of most
                                groups by the number of members. If you don't see a research
                                group that meets your needs you can always start your own!

Joining Professional Associations
You can join relevant professional associations, many of which
                                    publish their own professional journal, and hold conferences or
                                    seminars. Some even have their own libraries that can provide a
                                    rich source of material in the field. You can usually gain
                                    access to an association through its website.


Using Organizations
Do not forget that you can also make use of organizations as an
                                    important source of data, particularly if they are the focus of
                                    your research; for example, if you are using them as case studies. But
                                    note that the academic literature should underpin the
                                    theoretical elements of the project. Using grey literature such
                                    as institutional or company documents is valid for providing
                                    background information and supporting detail, but they should
                                    not carry the main burden of the theoretical argument. Another
                                    important source of organizational information is an
                                    organization's website. Unfortunately, of course, such
                                    websites change fairly constantly. All is not lost, however. You
                                    can track the changes that have occurred over time by using the
                                    Internet Archive (see: http://www.archive.org/web). A drawback of the site is
                                    that the owners of Web domains can block materials being made
                                    available to the public (Dochartaigh, 2007).


Using Authors
If you have been impressed with a particular author's
                                    work, why not try contacting them? These days, many people are
                                    quite easy to locate through their organization's website
                                    - particularly if they are an academic. You can ask them
                                    if they have published anything else in your field of interest,
                                    or if they are writing something new at the moment. You may be
                                    lucky enough to receive copies of articles, drafts of work in
                                    progress, or at least new references. On the other hand, they
                                    may be too busy to reply to you, so if there is no response do
                                    not be disappointed!

Case Study 5.2

An Illustration Of The Literature Search
                                            Process
Kate works in the marketing department of a large
                                            pharmaceuticals company and has special responsibility
                                            for leading the e-marketing team. Two years ago she
                                            enrolled on a part-time MSc in Marketing course at a
                                            local university and is now at the dissertation stage.
                                            Not surprisingly, her topic is going to be on
                                            e-marketing. She is particularly interested in
                                            e-marketing strategy. In undertaking her literature
                                            review, she starts with the Ebsco database in her
                                            university library. Using the search words
                                            'e-marketing strategy' yields 75 hits. On
                                            reading the articles during the next week, she notices a
                                            number of authors and studies that are frequently cited
                                            and decides that she needs to locate and read them.
She then focuses on books by searching Amazon.com. Again,
                                            inputting the search words 'e-marketing
                                            strategy' produces multiple hits. In exploring
                                            these, she decides to focus on more recent publications
                                            since this is a fast-changing area. She also notices
                                            that some of the books have been reviewed positively by
                                            many readers, including one that states it is
                                            'essential reading!'
Finally, Kate inputs the search terms 'e-marketing
                                            conferences' into Google and finds quite a vast
                                            array of conferences all over the world. She notices
                                            that many of the speakers match the names she has come
                                            across in her literature searches. Three months later,
                                            Kate attends an e-marketing conference and finds she is
                                            able to talk to not only marketing scholars, but to
                                            practitioners like herself who are also undertaking
                                            research. This is very useful because she notices that
                                            many of the problems and challenges in research that she
                                            is facing are being experienced by all the people she
                                            meets! Kate manages to have a discussion with several of
                                            the keynote speakers, some of whom are academic
                                            researchers in the field. Through these conversations
                                            she is able to 'try out' some of her
                                            preliminary thoughts on her possible research focus and
                                            get feedback from these experienced researchers in the
                                            field. Kate comes to realize that her literature
                                            searching and interactions with fellow researchers have
                                            provided her with the opportunity to shape and give some
                                            focus to her own research project.




Activity 5.2
Compare the actions of Kate in Case Study 5.2 with the
                                        potential array of sources discussed above in the section
                                        Searching source materials. Are there any important steps
                                        she may have missed out?





The Process Of Critically Evaluating Sources
We have now explored ways in which a fairly vast array of articles, books
                            and other sources can be accessed. But how do we know if they are worth
                            using? This is where the use of robust evaluation techniques becomes
                            essential. There are, basically, two steps in this process. The first is
                            establishing a set of screening criteria. This will narrow down your
                            search considerably. The next step is reading abstracts or full-text
                            articles and making critical judgements about their worth. This, of
                            course, is a skill that is acquired over time and with experience.



Evaluating Secondary Sources



Devising Practical Screening Criteria
Fink (2005) recommends that this should be done in two screening
                                stages. The first screening is practical, setting out, including,
                                and in some cases, excluding criteria. Table
                                    5.3 provides a summary of these criteria, for the mentoring
                                study discussed on p. 105.


Source: Adapted from Fink,
                                    2005

The second screening stage
                                examines the methodological quality of sources, looking at how well
                                a study has been designed and implemented to achieve its objectives.
                                Hart (1998) warns that, in evaluating a piece of research, the
                                researcher must be aware of the methodological tradition from which
                                it emanates - even if the researcher is not sympathetic to
                                that tradition. For example, it is not enough to criticize a
                                quasi-experimental research study for taking a quantitative approach
                                to data collection, since this is what one would expect. A more
                                valid argument would be that the research design was not matched to
                                the research objectives, or that assertions made for the study were
                                insufficiently supported by the data or analysis.


Making Critical Judgements
If conducting a literature review as the sole researcher, you will
                                need to develop the kinds of criteria outlined in Table 5.3 and apply them to the
                                articles or sources under review. However, it is necessary to go
                                beyond the application of selection criteria, to making value
                                judgements about what constitutes an authentic source and what does
                                not (see Table 5.4).


Source: Adapted from Anderson
                                    and Kanuka, 2003 and Hart, 1998

Even when applying the kind of evaluation methods suggested in Table 5.4, it is worth noting
                                that a person's judgements can change from day to day, as
                                Activity 5.3 may demonstrate. It is therefore worth examining a
                                source more than once, especially if its value or worth is unclear
                                the first time.


Activity 5.3
To evaluate the extent to which judgements are stable over time,
                                    take a small sample of articles and review them, deciding which
                                    are 'high quality' to be included and which are
                                    not. Return to the same articles, say, two weeks later and
                                    perform the same exercise. Are your judgements broadly the same?
                                    Did you include and exclude articles for the same reasons?



Operationalizing the issues listed above means using sets of tools to
                                analyse and evaluate the literature. This means developing a complex
                                set of critical skills, acquired through practice. Table 5.5 provides a brief
                                overview of the types of skill involved. Note that this is
                                hierarchical, with higher-order skills at the top.
If conducting the review as part of a research team, the question of
                                achieving inter-judge reliability of measurement comes into play.
                                Let us take an example of two researchers who both will have to
                                agree on which articles are going to be included in the literature
                                review, and which are to be excluded. They will first of all have to
                                agree a set of selection criteria similar to those in Table 5.3. The next stage is to
                                conduct the review itself. But how do we know if the researchers are
                                applying the criteria in a similar way? How reliable is this
                                process? A useful way of calculating this is using the Kappa
                                statistic, which compares the level of agreement between two people
                                against what might have been predicted just by chance. The Kappa
                                score itself ranges from +1 (perfect agreement) to 0 (no
                                agreement above what would have been predicted by chance) to
                                −1 (perfect disagreement), and is calculated as follows:

                                    
                                        
                                            K
                                            
                                            =
                                            
                                            
                                                
                                                  0
                                                  
                                                  -
                                                  
                                                  C
                                                  (
                                                  Agreement
                                                  
                                                  beyond
                                                  
                                                  chance
                                                  )
                                                
                                                
                                                  1
                                                  
                                                  -
                                                  
                                                  c
                                                  (
                                                  Agreement
                                                  
                                                  possible
                                                  
                                                  beyond
                                                  
                                                  chance
                                                  )
                                                
                                            
                                        
                                    
                                
According to Fink (2005) a literature review should aim for a Kappa
                                score of between 0.6 and 1.0. Scores of 0.0−0.2 are regarded
                                as slight; 0.2−0.4 = fair; 0.4−0.6 = moderate;
                                0.6−0.8 = substantial; 0.8−1.0 = almost perfect.
Assume that two reviewers are conducting a literature review on the
                                research question: 'What is the relationship between having a
                                mentor and a woman manager's career development?' and
                                are judging whether the studies they are reviewing express positive
                                or negative findings on the impact of mentoring. Table 5.6 illustrates the
                                number of articles that each reviewer (acting independently)
                                considers to be positive or negative. The Kappa score then
                                calculates the extent to which these sets of scores are in
                                agreement.


Source: Adapted from Hart,
                                    1998






Activity 5.4
To calculate a Kappa score for the data, input the figures into
                                    the Kappa value calculator at: http://www.statisticssolutions.com/kappa-calculator/.
                                    What score do you get? Is the result slight, fair, moderate,
                                    substantial or almost perfect?
Suggested answer at the end of the chapter.




Managing Information
It is all too easy to be enthusiastic and motivated in searching the
                            literature, but sloppy in storing your findings. Without an accurate,
                            consistent and searchable means of storing your literature search data,
                            your efforts will lack the rewards that they deserve. The key is the
                            maintenance of a research log. This can be paper-based or a computer
                            file, depending on which you are most comfortable with. The research log
                            could contain sections on:
Search parameters - details of your main subject focus
                                    and the keywords that describe it.Search logs - information on what you have searched,
                                    when, how and with what results.Contact details of people, organizations, Internet newsgroups,
                                    online discussion groups, etc.Inter-library loans, including what you ordered and when.CD ROM and Internet sources.Bibliography.



Example - Research Log


Maintaining an accurate and searchable bibliography is important for a
                            number of reasons. First, it means that you have a printable
                            bibliographical record at the end of your research project. Secondly,
                            keeping a searchable record allows you to locate all your references on
                            specific issues (topics, authors, dates of publication, etc.) when you
                            are writing up your research. This is much easier to carry out if you
                            maintain computerized records. There are a number of bibliographic
                            software products on the market that allow you to store records in a
                            database, create bibliographies and even conduct Internet searches of
                            online and Web databases. Some of these have to be purchased, but there
                            are an increasing number of very functional resource management tools
                            that are free.


On The Web 5.8
You can download trial versions of two bibliographic software
                                products from the Adeptscience website at:

http://www.adeptscience.co.uk

Look for Reference Manager and EndNote.
For a tutorial on using Reference Manager see:

http://referencemanager.com/training

For a tutorial on using EndNote see:

https://web.library.uq.edu.au/research-tools-techniques/referencing/referencing-software/endnote/using-endnote

However, there are an emerging number of alternatives such as
                                Mendeley and Zotero. A useful website on tips for choosing reference
                                management software can be found at:

http://www.literaturereviewhq.com/6-tips-on-how-to-choose-reference-management-software/




Synthesizing And Integrating Search Results
The final stage in the literature review process is to bring the results
                            together, providing an answer to some of the original questions that
                            were posed and which may include areas where the current state of
                            knowledge is weak. Taking our example of mentoring women managers and
                            their career development, the literature review could comprise answers
                            to at least the following questions:
How is mentoring defined and how does it differ from other
                                    interventions such as coaching or counselling?How widespread is mentoring among managers in general and women
                                    managers in particular?What impact does mentoring have on women who receive it compared
                                    to women who do not?
The last question implies that studies will be examined that have
                            conducted empirical research involving an experimental group of women
                            who have received mentoring and a control group that have not. Such
                            studies will then measure the career progression of each group and make
                            statistical comparisons.


Top Tip 5.4
Because of the danger of plagiarism when making notes, it is
                                    usually safest to construct them in your own words, so reducing
                                    the chance of unwittingly copying someone else's words by
                                    mistake.




As is often the case, the literature review might reveal equivocal
                            results in the empirical studies, some showing a statistically
                            significant improvement in career progression for those women who have
                            engaged with mentoring, but others perhaps showing slight and
                            non-significant differences. Researchers may have suggested a number of
                            potential reasons as to why mentoring has not been as effective as
                            predicted and have recommended further research. It is these recommendations that can then be
                            taken forward as the basis for a new study. Given that all reviews
                            should adopt a critical stance to the literature, this is also an
                            opportunity to highlight the weaknesses of some of the studies
                            described, particularly in terms of the validity and reliability of
                            their results. The literature review hence becomes the basis for showing
                            how the future research study will avoid these mistakes and produce more
                            robust findings.
Note the important difference here between what could be termed an
                            annotated bibliography and an integrated literature review. An annotated
                            bibliography is often what students produce (thinking it is a literature
                            review!), presenting a 'laundry list' of sources with a
                            brief description or summary of each. So, it might read: 'Smith
                            (2013) comments that .... Shah (2010) describes .... Rosenberg
                            (2012) talks about ....' This, however, is not a critical
                            review of the literature (as described above), in which sources are
                            discussed critically, strengths and weaknesses identified, and
                            gaps in the research and research questions emerge.



Example - Annotated Bibliography



Top Tip 5.5
A good way of checking whether you have written a descriptive summary
                                of the literature (the wrong approach!) as opposed to a critical
                                review is to see if you have also identified some research questions
                                in this section. If no research questions have emerged and been made
                                explicit, you have probably written an annotated bibliography.



Writing a Literature Review




Employability Skill 5.1

Condense And Summarize Information
In undertaking the review process it is also essential that you
                                    are able to condense all the information you are accessing so
                                    that you make use of what is most pertinent and relevant. A
                                    useful way of seeing how this is done is to read an article in
                                    an academic journal and then read the Abstract, which skilfully
                                    condenses and summarizes the article.



Summarizing Information
                                            Application






Structure And Content Of The Literature Review
In terms of structure, Creswell (2009) suggests that a literature review
                            should comprise five components:
An Introduction, informing the reader about how the review is to
                                    be organized and structured.Review of Topic 1, addressing the literature on the independent
                                    variable or variables (the influences on the dependent variable
                                    or subject, upon which the research is focused). Note: we will
                                    explore descriptions of dependent and independent variables in
                                    more detail in Chapter 6.Review of Topic 2, the literature on the dependent variable. If
                                    there are multiple dependent variables, devote a sub-section to
                                    each one, or focus on a single important dependent
                                    variable.Review of Topic 3, the literature that relates the independent
                                    variable to the dependent variable. Creswell (2009) warns that
                                    this section should be relatively short and should focus on
                                    studies that are extremely close in topic to the proposed study.
                                    If nothing specific has been written on the topic, then review
                                    studies that address it at a general level.Provide a summary of the review, highlighting the most
                                    significant studies and the key themes that have emerged.
This last point is vitally important. It is not enough to simply read
                            around a subject or theme. You must produce a synthesis of subjects or
                            related subjects in the form of an increasingly focused argument
                            or set of concerns. The key word here is 'refinement'.
                            Recall Figure 5.1, touring the literature.
                            Pausing to focus on areas that have emerged as important means that the
                            discussion is gradually refined down to a set of core issues and
                            arguments. These, then, provide the basis for the formulation of
                            research questions and the focus of the research.
A comprehensive and critical literature review, then, should cover the
                            kinds of criteria outlined in Table
                            5.7. Creating a literature review based upon this checklist will
                            allow you to establish the boundaries of your research, the gaps in
                            current knowledge, the methodologies applied to researching the subject
                            and how the proposed study contributes to knowledge.


Source: Adapted from Creswell,
                                2009



Positioning The Literature Review
Should your review of the literature come at the beginning of your thesis
                            or dissertation, in the middle or at the end? Creswell (2009) offers
                            three possible locations: in the Introduction, as a separate
                                section and as a final section in the study. Table 5.7 provides a brief summary.
                            For some qualitative studies, for example, the literature can be
                            discussed in the Introduction to 'frame' the
                            subject being studied. However, using a separate literature review
                            section towards the beginning of a study is more typical of a
                            quantitative approach. The
                            purpose of this section becomes to provide a basis on which questions
                            and hypotheses can be generated, and can influence the design and
                            direction of the research. In contrast, in some types of qualitative
                            research, such as the use of grounded theory, theoretical perspectives
                            are developed inductively from the data itself. Any literature review is
                            created towards the end of the research, providing a benchmark against
                            which the results can be compared. Literature reviews within qualitative
                            approaches are discussed in more detail in Chapter
                            7.


Referencing Sources
So far in this chapter we have focused on locating and making use of
                            literature sources. But how do we make reference to these sources in
                            what we write? Students make a lot of mistakes in this area either
                            because they have failed to read their academic institution's
                            rules on doing this, or they do not think it is important. However, it
                            is important. Let's look at a typical approach that some students
                            use: 'Mike Bloggs in How to Be Careless in Referencing
                            shows us that....' This approach is wrong on three counts.
                            Firstly, in referencing you should not make use of anyone's first
                            name or even their initial. Hence, M. Bloggs is not an improvement.
                            Secondly, it is incorrect to make reference here to the source itself
                            - this should be left to the References section of the thesis or
                            dissertation (more of this below). Finally, there is no mention of the
                            date of publication. The correct referencing in the text should
                            therefore read: 'Bloggs (2013) shows us that....' In
                            other words, the second name of the author and the correct date (year).
                            It's as simple as that.
In the References section you will make use of one of the main
                            referencing systems, the most common one being the Harvard system. Table 5.8 provides a summary of the
                            kinds of information used in the Harvard system for some commonly used
                            sources, while Table 5.9 offers some practical
                            examples. However, before using this you should check on what
                            referencing system is recommended by your own academic institution.


Doing A Critical Literature Review
So far we have assumed that the literature review has been linked in some
                            way to an empirical study. However, it is legitimate to conduct a
                            literature review (especially if it is a critical literature
                            review), as a study in its own right. The word 'critical'
                            has many meanings. Mingers (2000) identifies four aspects of the
                            critical approach:
Critique of rhetoric. Evaluating a problem with the use of
                                    effective language and making reasoned judgements.Critique of tradition. Challenging conventional wisdom.Critique of authority. Challenging dominant views.Critique of objectivity. Recognizing that the information being
                                    discussed is not value free.Conducting a critical literature review therefore means
                                    combining knowledge and understanding of what has been written,
                                    with evaluation and judgement skills, and an ability to
                                    structure these into a clear and logical argument (Saunders and
                                    Rojon, 2011).
In terms of content, critical reviews need to cover the key academic
                            theories within the chosen field of research. Clearly, it is impossible
                            to review every single source. What is essential, however, is that the
                            most relevant and significant sources are covered. Identifying these is
                            often a matter of reading some of the most recent works on the subject
                            and seeing which authors or 'authorities' are referenced
                            and in what depth. Critical reviews also need to be more than just an
                            annotated bibliography, noting what each author has written. The review
                            must compare and contrast the views presented by different authors to
                            provide a holistic perspective on the subject, and do so in a way that
                            differentiates between fact and opinion. Some of the criteria for
                            undertaking a critical literature review are presented at Table 5.10.




 This will normally be a person but
                                    may also be an organization (for example, the National Health
                                    Service).
* The initial is required in
                                    the list of References, but is omitted for
                                    'in-text' references.
 Both the author(s) of the
                                    chapter and the editor(s) of the publication (i.e. book) are
                                    required.

Source: Adapted from Gould, 2007






Top Tip 5.6
If you are conducting research as part of an academic programme check
                                on the programme regulations as to whether they allow for this type
                                of structure. If they do, consider undertaking a critical review of
                                the literature, particularly if your access to organizations or
                                respondents for empirical research is limited.






Source: Adapted from Boote and
                                Beile, 2005




Undertaking A Systematic Review
A systematic review (SR) addresses a specified research question by
                            collecting and summarizing all empirical evidence that fits a set of
                            pre-specified criteria. In doing this it: 'addresses a
                                specific question, utilizes explicit and transparent methods to
                                perform a thorough literature search and critical appraisal of
                                individual studies, and draws conclusions about what we currently
                                know and do not know about a given question or topic'
                            (Briner and Denyer, 2012: 329). While systematic reviews have been
                            common in fields such as medicine, law and psychology it is only
                            recently that they are being adopted in business and management (Rojon,
                            McDowall and Saunders, 2011). One factor behind this is the criticism
                            that a limitation of traditional literature reviews is that they can be
                            made to tell any story that experts want to tell (Briner and Walshe,
                            2015).



Example - Systematic Review


According to Petticrew and Roberts (2006) SR distinguishes itself from
                            traditional narrative forms of literature review (as discussed in this
                            chapter) in two interrelated ways. Firstly, SR adheres to a set of
                            processes that aim to limit researcher bias by attempting to identify,
                            evaluate and synthesise all studies that are relevant to the research.
                            Secondly, these processes are identified in advance and reported in
                            sufficient detail that replication by other researchers is made
                            possible. A summary of these differences is presented in Table 5.11.


Source: Adapted from Briner and
                                Walshe, 2015. Reused by permission of the Academy of Management
                                Learning and Education

According to Briner and Denyer
                            (2012) SRs follow a systematic process for the search, selection,
                            inclusion and analysis of a comprehensive set of studies in a subject
                            area. To achieve this, core principles include a process that:
Is systematic and organized to avoid researcher bias.Is transparent and explicit using audit trail for
                                    decisions.Is replicable and easily updateable.Synthesizes the evidence to answer specific pre-set
                                    questions.
Full-blown systematic reviews might involve a team of dedicated
                            researchers who might take many months or even years to complete a
                            comprehensive and large-scale review and report. Briner and Walshe
                            (2015), however, offer a quicker version that they call rapid evidence
                            assessments (REAs), an approach developed in the UK Civil Service. The
                            first stage is identifying as precisely as possible the question or
                            problem that is going to be addressed (see Step 1 in Table 5.12). In attempting this,
                            Briner and Walshe (2015) offer the example of the question: 'Does
                            team building work?' They then show that this basic question
                            needs more specificity by identifying sub-questions that could
                            include:
What is meant by 'team'?Is any work group a team?What types of team are there?What exactly is 'team building'?What does 'work' mean?What outcomes are relevant?
To achieve focus of the research questions, Petticrew and Roberts (2006)
                            offer the acronym PICOC which is adapted by Briner and Walshe (2015) for
                            the team building research question:
Population. What is the population? Managers? All
                                    workers? New teams? What size of team?Intervention. What is a team building
                                    intervention? Any type of intervention aimed at improving team
                                    functions?Comparison. Is there a comparison between team
                                    building and some other intervention?Outcomes. Which outcomes are important and
                                    relevant? Is it about performance, attitudes, effect or all of
                                    these? Are the outcomes short- or long-term?Context. What is the context in which the
                                    intervention takes place? Is it in large or small organizations?
                                    Is it in particular sectors? Teams with particular problems or
                                    difficulties? Teams in a particular country?
After the precise specification of the research question, Table 5.12 illustrates the
                            systematic review 8-step process. Note that there may be iterations
                            between these steps, with the need to return to a previous step, even at
                            a late stage (Briner and Walshe, 2015).



Source: Adapted from Petticrew and
                                Roberts, 2006 and Briner and Walshe, 2015. Reused by permission of
                                the Academy of Management Learning and Education


Case Study 5.3

Top Management Team Diversity: A Systematic
                                    Review
Homberg and Bui (2013) argue that empirical research that has
                                    investigated the impact of top management team (TMT) diversity
                                    on executives' decision making has produced inconclusive
                                    results. At the core of TMT research lies an argument that high
                                    levels of diversity among board members leads to improved
                                    business performance, what has been termed the
                                    'diversity-performance link'. However, taking
                                    gender as one element of diversity, Homberg and Bui (2013)
                                    comment that while some studies have found a positive effect on
                                    performance, for other studies the impact has been neutral or
                                    negative. Hence, a systematic review has the potential to
                                    provide new insights into this area. However, the authors warn
                                    against publication bias where journal editors and
                                    reviewers tend to favour those studies that yield statistically
                                    significant results, with studies reporting non-significant
                                    results, under-represented. This, of course, is a problem for
                                    SRs that want to study all effects, including studies where no
                                    effect is apparent.
The aim of the systematic review was to summarize the evidence
                                    available on the effects of TMT diversity on firm performance.
                                    The SR was conducted using different combinations of the key
                                    words UE (upper echelons), TMT (top management
                                    team), diversity, performance and functional
                                        diversity, gender diversity, tenure
                                        diversity, and educational diversity, using the
                                    databases EBSCO, Web of Science and Google Scholar for the
                                    period 2000 to 2010. Studies focused on diversity in work groups
                                    below TMT were excluded. Inclusion criteria included only
                                    studies that contained quantitative analysis since only these
                                    could be used for meta-regression analysis (MRA) since this
                                    method is able to detect the impact of potential moderators in
                                    the studies analysed, and the distortion of results due to
                                    publication bias. Other inclusion criteria included studies that
                                    addressed diversity attributes such as age, gender, and
                                    ethnicity and characteristics such as functional background,
                                    education or tenure.
Results identified two types of performance which Homberg and Bui
                                    define as quantitative and qualitative.Quantitative
                                        performance captures widely accepted performance
                                    measures such as return on assets, return on investment or stock
                                    market returns. Qualitative performance refers to
                                    measures that try to assess the quality of decision-making
                                    processes. Table 5.13 provides a
                                    descriptive summary of the review showing the significance of
                                    results by diversity type and the characteristics of the studies
                                    by region, performance and size of enterprise.


Note: MNC = multinational
                                        company; SME = small and medium-sized enterprises.


                                            Some studies use data sets from more than one region,
                                            thus double counts are possible.


For the next step,
                                    meta-regression analysis was used explore the relationship
                                    between common characteristics such as region, industry, firm
                                    size as they might affect the diversity-performance link.
                                        Table 5.14 presents the
                                    results for the Full Set, Model 2 the quantitative set and Model
                                    3 the qualitative performance measures.


Note: Robust standard errors
                                        in parentheses.*p< .1,
                                            **p< .05,
                                            ***p< .01. Eight
                                        observations had to be excluded from the model due to
                                        missing data.Thus N = 255 instead of 263.
MNC = multinational company; SME =
                                        small and medium-sized enterprises.
Source: Adapted from Homberg
                                        and Bui, 2013




Activity 5.5
Case Study 5.3 expresses an aim 'to summarize the evidence
                                available on the effects of TMT diversity on firm
                                performance'. If we followed the process in Table 5.12 that Step 1 in a SR
                                should identify and clearly define the question the review will
                                address, what would this be?




Summary
A literature review provides an up-to-date understanding of a
                                    subject and helps to identify significant issues and themes for
                                    research - particularly where there is a gap in current
                                    knowledge.When writing a thesis or dissertation there are two literatures
                                    that have to be covered - the subject matter itself but
                                    also the research methods literature.Adopt a systematic approach to retrieving information, including
                                    the use of people (e.g., supervisors, subject librarians), and
                                    the use of research logs and bibliographic software.In retrieving information, keep in mind that reports on some of
                                    the most contemporary research are likely to be at conferences
                                    and seminars rather than in books or even academic research
                                    articles.Ensure that the literature review contains an emphasis on
                                    peer-reviewed articles and books rather than non-peer-reviewed
                                    sources.Reviewing the literature requires the adoption of an
                                    'angle' to achieve more of a focus. The review
                                    should also adopt a critical stance.Devise practical evaluation criteria including the use of
                                    screening criteria and search terms.In traditional, quantitative studies, the literature review is
                                    normally positioned after the Introduction. However, in some,
                                    particularly qualitative, studies, the literature review could
                                    come later or even at the end of the report or
                                    dissertation.Ensure that you are accurate and consistent in using references
                                    in your text and in the References section at the end of your
                                    thesis or dissertation.A critical literature review can be a study in its own right,
                                    covering and critiquing the key academic theories within the
                                    chosen field of research.A systematic review addresses a specified research question by
                                    collecting and summarizing all empirical evidence that fits a
                                    set of pre-specified criteria.

Review Questions
Name 5 functions served by a literature review.When the research approach is inductive, the literature
                                        review is likely to be conducted iteratively. Discuss.Which of the following are more likely to be 'up to
                                        date' in terms of their topicality: conference
                                        papers, books, journal articles, dissertations.What role can a social media site like Facebook play in
                                        conducting a literature research?What is the difference between a narrative, critical and
                                        systematic review?



Literature Review Process Overview





Further Reading
Anderson, T. and Kanuka, H. (2003) e-Research: Methods, Strategies,
                                and Issues. Boston, MA: Allyn & Bacon. Contains a chapter
                            devoted to the conduct of an online literature review, as well as
                            chapters on ethics in e-research and dissemination of e-research
                            results.
Dochartaigh, N.O. (2007)
                                Internet Research Skills: How To Do Your Literature Search and
                                Find Research Information Online. London: Sage. Given the value
                            and growing importance of the Web as a research source, this book
                            provides some excellent search strategies, as well as guidance on
                            evaluating sources.
Hart, C. (1998) Doing a Literature Review. London: Sage. Another
                            essential source that justifies the importance of the literature review
                            and demonstrates the review process.
Hart, C. (2001) Doing a Literature Search. London: Sage. An
                            essential guide that includes plenty of practical advice and also a host
                            of useful online resources.
Machi, L.A. and McEvoy, B.T. (2009) The Literature Review: Six Steps
                                to Success. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage. The six steps comprise:
                            selecting the topic, searching the literature, developing the argument,
                            surveying the literature, critiquing the literature and writing the
                            review. Practical and easy to read.


Journal Resources
Armitage, A. and Keeble-Allen, D. (2008) 'Undertaking a structured
                            literature review or structuring a literature review: Tales from the
                            field', Electronic Journal of Business Research Methods,
                            6(2): 103-113. Using a number of case studies, explores the
                            challenges faced by undergraduate and masters degree students (rather
                            than doctoral students) in undertaking a literature search.
Khoo, C.S.G., Na, J.-C. and Jaidka, K. (2011) 'Analysis of the
                            macro-level discourse structure of literature reviews', Online
                                Information Review, 35(2): 255-271. Distinguishes between
                            descriptive literature reviews which summarize papers and integrative
                            literature reviews which focus on ideas and results extracted from
                            academic papers.
Rowley, J. and Slack, F. (2004) 'Conducting a literature
                            review', Management Research News, 27(6): 31-39.
                            Outlines some of the basics for conducting a literature review and
                            offers some useful tips.


Suggested Answer To Activity 5.4
The Kappa score is 0.696, making this a substantial level of
                            agreement.

Don't forget to visit the companion website at https://study.sagepub.com/grayresearchbusiness for the
                                following resources which support this chapter:

















Part B Research Methodology



6 Business Research Design: Quantitative Methods


137


The structure of experimental
                                        research
139

Experimental and
                                        quasi-experimental research design
147

Generalizing from samples to
                                        populations
155

Designing valid and reliable
                                        research instruments
159



7 Business Research Design: Qualitative Methods


169


Some criticisms of quantitative
                                        research
170

Characteristics of qualitative
                                        research
171

Paradigms and strategies for
                                        qualitative research
172

Approaches to qualitative
                                        design
178

The role of the researcher
184

Using the literature in
                                        qualitative research
185

Collecting qualitative data
186

Ethics and qualitative
                                        research
190

Ensuring rigour in qualitative
                                        research
191



8 Business Research Design: Mixed Methods


199


Differences between
                                        quantitative and qualitative research
200

What do we mean by mixed
                                        methods research?
204

The benefits of mixed methods
                                        designs
206

Looking at mixed methods
                                        research critically
208

Types of mixed methods
                                        design
209



9 Sampling Strategies in Business


217


Probability sampling
219

Non-probability sampling
224

Mixed methods sampling
232

Sampling hard to reach
                                        populations
235

Sample size - how much
                                        is enough?
237



10 Designing Descriptive and Analytical Surveys for
                                    Business


243


What is a survey?
244

Types of survey
245

Stages in the survey
                                        process
249

Selecting a survey method
253

Conducting a staff opinion
                                        survey
259

Reducing sources of error
263

Ethics and good practice in
                                        survey design
268



11 Designing Case Studies for Business


273


When should we use case
                                        studies?
275

The case study design
                                        process
276

Types of case study design
282

Data collection sources
285

Quality in case studies:
                                        validity and reliability
286

Analysing the evidence
289

Composing case study
                                        reports
293



12 Designing Evaluations in Business


303


The focus of evaluation
305

Schools of evaluation
312

Data collection sources
317

Data collection tools
319

Quality issues in
                                        evaluation
323

Planning the evaluation
                                        report
325

Enhancing the impact of
                                        evaluation
328

The ethics of evaluation
328



13 Action Research and Change in Business


335


What is action research?
337

The action research process
340

The role of researchers and
                                        participants
346

Methods of data gathering
347

Validating action research
350

Ethics and action research
                                        projects
351

Some of the limitations of
                                        action research
353















6 Business Research Design:
                        Quantitative Methods

Chapter Introduction

Chapter Outline
The structure of experimental researchExperimental and quasi-experimental research designGeneralizing from samples to populationsDesigning valid and reliable research instruments


Keywords
Experimental researchResearch questionsHypothesesDependent variablesIndependent variablesDescriptive statisticsInferential statisticsExperimental designQuasi-experimental designSamplingValidityReliability



Icon Key







Author Video







Chapter Objectives
After reading this chapter you will be able to:
Describe the experimental and quasi-experimental research
                                        approaches.Formulate appropriate questions and hypotheses.Identify populations and samples.Describe the principles of research tool design.



A research design is the overarching plan for the collection,
                            measurement and analysis of data. Typically, a research design will
                            describe the purpose of the study and the kinds of questions being
                            addressed, the techniques to be used for collecting data, approaches to
                            selecting samples and how the data are going to be analysed.
We saw in Chapter 2 that experimental research
                            methodology usually involves truth-seeking (as opposed to perspective-
                            or opinion-seeking) and may often involve the use of quantitative
                            methods for analysis. It tends, therefore, to utilize a deductive
                            approach to research design, that is, the use of a priori
                            questions or hypotheses that the research will test. These often flow
                            from sets of issues and questions arising from the researcher's
                            engagement with a relevant body of literature, such as marketing,
                            knowledge management or supply chain logistics. The intention of
                            experimental research is the production of results that are objective,
                            valid and replicable (by the original researcher, or by others). In
                            terms of epistemology, then, experimental research falls firmly into the
                            objectivist camp, and is influenced by positivistic theoretical
                            perspectives. It takes, for example, some of the principles of research
                            design (such as the use of experimental and control groups) from the
                            natural sciences. However, given the discredited status of positivism,
                            advocates of the experimental approach are now likely to make more
                            cautious and modest claims for the veracity and status of their research
                            results.



A Priori


In an organizational context, research might stem not from issues
                            prompted by a body of literature, but from a real, live problem the
                            researcher is asked to solve. The initial focus, then, is the problem
                            itself (rising absenteeism, communication bottlenecks, data security,
                            etc.), but the researcher will probably soon have to access both the
                            academic literature (including technical and institutional sources) and
                            also grey literature such as internal organizational documents and
                            reports. Chapter 3 showed how the researcher
                            journeys through a process of refinement, whereby the territory covered
                            by the research literature becomes increasingly focused. But this is not
                            just a question of narrowing the research. The core issues that emerge
                            from the literature gradually build into significant sets of themes, or
                            concerns that link to, and help to specify, the research questions and
                            the research design for solving them.
Note that many of the issues discussed in this chapter (for example, the
                            generation of research questions, the identification of samples from
                            populations and issues of validity and reliability) are
                            also discussed in many of the chapters that follow - even those
                            associated with more qualitative designs.



The Structure Of Experimental Research
The experimental research design process, put simply, comprises two
                            steps: the planning stage and the operational stage (see Figure 6.1). At the planning stage,
                            the main issue or research question may be posed and the relevant
                            literature and theories investigated. From these it should be possible
                            (if the issue is capable of being researched) to formulate research
                            hypotheses. The dependent variables (the subject of the research) and
                            independent variables (variables that effect the dependent variable) are
                            identified and made explicit after which we move into the operational
                            stage. After the experiment has been conducted, the analysis stage may
                            involve the use of both descriptive and inferential
                                statistics (described in Chapter
                                23). From the analysis it then becomes possible to either accept
                            or reject the hypothesis. A formal document or presentation is then
                            prepared to report the results. Let us look at each of these stages in
                            more detail.

Identifying The Issue Or Questions Of Interest
We saw in Chapter 3 that some of the
                                criteria that make up a 'good' research topic include
                                the availability of resources and access to sponsors and other
                                people who may be able to help in the research. Sometimes a research
                                issue may arise from your reading of a body of literature. In a
                                workplace setting, issues or questions spring up as a result of real
                                problems that require a solution, or as a result of a pilot study
                                prior to the implementation of a research project.
Figure 6.1
                                    Stages in the planning and operation of an experimental and
                                    quasi-experimental research projectSource: Adapted from Keppel,
                                    Saufley and Tokunaga, 1992. Reprinted by kind permission of
                                    Macmillan



Reviewing Relevant Literature And Theories
As we saw in Chapter 2, the experimental
                                approach to research is often deductive, so once an area or issue
                                has been chosen for research, the next stage is to identify and
                                delve into a relevant body of literature. Chapter
                                    5 illustrated some of the sources where you might find the
                                literature you need. Early on in your research, you should try to
                                identify the theories that are relevant to addressing your topic,
                                and also what kinds of research methods have been used to address
                                the subject. The literature search will also identify who are the
                                dominant and influential writers in the field. Having looked at the
                                literature, you may decide that the scale of the subject is too
                                large (particularly in terms of your own tight timescales), or that
                                the investigation you were considering has already been done.
                                However, you may also see that previous investigations have been
                                flawed, or that there are gaps in the research that are worth
                                filling. For example, you may become aware of emerging
                                technology-based learning theories, but notice that there have been
                                few studies of their application within the realm of social media
                                (in which you have personal experience). This could be your niche,
                                your experience in the area giving you a head start.


Developing Questions And Hypotheses
Research questions and hypotheses are merely the configuration of
                                issues into a transparent and measurable formulation. The way in
                                which research questions are stated, their focus and the kinds of
                                data they seek, are strongly connected to the philosophy and
                                research paradigm of the researcher (recall Chapter
                                    2). As Wield (2002) also cautions, writing questions and
                                hypotheses is not necessarily a linear process. Even after they have
                                been formulated, either further reading of the literature, or
                                surprises at the piloting or data gathering stages, can force the
                                researcher to amend or even rewrite them. Let us look at research
                                questions and hypotheses in more detail.

Constructing Research Questions
The ways in which we formulate key questions can sometimes drive
                                    us down unfruitful paths, even when the underlying concerns that
                                    motivate our questions are genuine and important. It might help
                                    if we reflect for a moment on the genuine concerns that drive us
                                    to ask the questions we ask (Sarasvathy, 2004). As Alford (1998)
                                    points out, research questions are not the same as problems.
                                    Problems, themes and concerns may be allocated to you by a
                                    sponsor, or may emerge from your engagement with a relevant body
                                    of literature. Alford, however, asserts that, in contrast to a
                                    problem, a research question comprises two elements: first, a
                                    connection to a theoretical framework; secondly, a sentence in
                                    which every word counts and which ends (not surprisingly) with a
                                    question mark. Questions also describe potential relationships
                                    between and among variables that are to be tested. Blumberg et
                                    al. (2005) similarly distinguish between what they call dilemmas
                                    and research questions. A dilemma is a signal that all is not
                                    well - for example, falling sales, higher staff
                                    absenteeism or higher borrowing costs. The key is knowing how to
                                    turn statements of dilemmas into tight research questions. Table 6.1 offers some
                                    examples.




It is clear from Table 6.1 that each dilemma
                                    is addressed by at least one question that explores the
                                    relationships between two variables. Kerlinger and Lee (2000)
                                    argue that a good research question:
Expresses a relationship between variables (for example,
                                            company image and sales levels).Is stated in unambiguous terms in a question
                                            format.
But, as Black (1993) states, a question could meet both of
                                    Kerlinger and Lee's criteria and still be invalid,
                                    because it may be virtually impossible to operationally define
                                    some of its variables. What, for example, do we mean by
                                    'digital technologies' (in the above example), and
                                    how would we define them in ways that could be measured? As
                                    Hedrick et al. (1993) argue, researchers may have to receive
                                    sets of questions from research sponsors, and these may be posed
                                    by non-technical people in non-technical language. The
                                    researcher's first step, then, is to re-phrase the
                                    questions into a form that is both researchable and acceptable
                                    to the client. Research questions can be classified into four
                                    major categories:
Descriptive ('What is happening?',
                                            'Which methods are being used?').Normative ('What is happening compared to what
                                            should happen?'). The standards against which the
                                            outcomes are evaluated could include legal requirements,
                                            professional standards or programme objectives.Correlative ('What is the relationship, and the
                                            strength of this relationship, between variable X and
                                            Y?'). Note that this establishes a relationship,
                                            but it does not imply a cause.Impact ('What impact does a change in X have on
                                            Y?'). In contrast to correlation studies, impact
                                            questions do try to establish a causal relationship
                                            between variables.
Table 6.2 provides some
                                    examples of research questions for each of these categories.
It is often useful to take a research question and to break it
                                    down into subordinate questions. These are highly specific and
                                    assist in answering the question to which they are attached.
                                    Taking the first question in Table
                                        6.2, we might devise a set of subordinate questions such
                                    as:
How common is drug misuse among male and female
                                            employees?How does drug misuse compare across different
                                            departments?Has drug misuse increased or decreased over the past
                                            five years?
This is also a useful exercise because subordinate questions can
                                    provide a stage between the original objective and the kinds of
                                    detailed questions needed for research tools such as
                                    questionnaires and interview or observation schedules. Case
                                    Study 6.1 provides an illustration of how research questions
                                    often have to be revised and refined before they become
                                    sufficiently focused and usable.


Source: Adapted from Hedrick
                                        et al., 1993



Case Study 6.1

Getting Those Research Questions
                                            Right
A researcher, working for a voluntary association giving
                                            advice to the public, is concerned that most of those
                                            seeking the bureau's help are white, with very
                                            few clients coming from the ethnic minority population.
                                            She receives a small grant from the bureau's
                                            trustees to carry out a research project. She formulates
                                            her research questions as follows:

Research Questions
To produce a report detailing the research. To
                                                  check if the bureau is conforming to its
                                                  organizational aims and objectives and if not how
                                                  it can improve the delivery of services.To increase awareness of the needs of ethnic
                                                  minority clients and potential clients of the
                                                  bureau among staff and to inform the organization
                                                  of staff training needs.To use this as a starting point for further
                                                  work to be carried out by volunteers at the
                                                  bureau.
Take a look at these research questions. What is
                                                wrong with them? Well, to be honest, quite a lot.
                                                Question 1 is not really a question but an output.
                                                This is what will be produced through the
                                                research. Questions 2 and 3 are aims or ambitions.
                                                What are listed as research questions do not deserve
                                                the description. They may result from the research
                                                but are not objectives, since there is nothing here
                                                that can be measured.
After some thought, the researcher arrives at the
                                                following list of questions.
What are the needs of ethnic minority groups
                                                  in the district?What access to information about the bureau do
                                                  they have?Do those that access the information implement
                                                  its contents effectively?Is there a relationship between the quality of
                                                  information given, and ethnic minority trust in
                                                  the bureau?What degree of awareness should bureau staff
                                                  have (in relation to their organizational service
                                                  levels) about the needs of ethnic minority
                                                  groups?




Activity 6.1
Examine the final set of questions in Case Study 6.1. Which
                                        of these research questions belongs to the descriptive,
                                        normative, correlative or impact categories?
Suggested answers are provided at the end of the chapter.



Research questions are formulated as part of many research
                                    studies, whether perspective-seeking or truth-seeking, although
                                    not necessarily at the same stage of the research. In
                                    perspective-seeking studies, for example, questions may emerge
                                    as part of the data gathering exercise. For truth-seeking
                                    research, including experimental and quasi-experimental
                                    research, they are usually formulated at the beginning of the
                                    research process. But while perspective-seeking research usually
                                    relies just on research questions, truth-seeking approaches
                                    usually go further and require the formulation of a
                                    hypothesis.



Formulating a Research Question





Constructing Hypotheses
Research questions are usually broad in nature, and may lend
                                    themselves to a number of answers, but a hypothesis is capable
                                    of being tested and is predictive. For example, 'How is
                                    trust promoted in organizations?' is a research question
                                    and not a hypothesis. To convert the question into a hypothesis
                                    we might conjecture that: 'Emotionally intelligent
                                    leadership promotes trust'. Kerlinger and Lee (2000)
                                    suggest that a hypothesis is a speculative statement of the
                                    relation between two or more variables. Good hypotheses, then,
                                    should contain a statement containing two or more variables that
                                    are capable of measurement. Measurement, however, can only occur
                                    if the variables contained in the hypothesis can be
                                    operationally defined (see next
                                        section). Certainly, in the above hypothesis, the two
                                    variables 'emotionally intelligent' and
                                    'trust', can each be operationally defined,
                                    compared through a research study, and the statement either
                                    accepted or rejected.



Hypothesis


In formulating a hypothesis, care should be taken to avoid what
                                    Kerlinger and Lee (2000) describe as value questions, for
                                    example, those that contain words such as
                                    'should', 'ought' or 'better
                                    than'. Similarly, the statement 'The
                                    implementation of the new information technology system has led
                                    to poor results' is also a value statement because of the
                                    use of the word 'poor' - what, exactly, is
                                    meant by this? A better approach would be to state the results
                                    in measurable terms such as 'reduced output',
                                    'lower staff satisfaction', or 'computer
                                    error'. It is useful to reflect that negative findings
                                    are sometimes just as important as positive ones since they can
                                    highlight new lines of investigation.

Activity 6.2
Examine each of the following statements and decide which (if
                                        any) make valid hypotheses.
Using external coaches leads to disappointing levels
                                                of employee commitment.What are the major causes of intranet failure?The introduction of a Six Sigma process will
                                                increase levels of customer satisfaction.
Suggested answers are provided at the end of the chapter.



Operationally Defining Variables
One of the problems in formulating research questions and
                                    hypotheses is that they tend to be somewhat generalized and
                                    vague. Before research tools can be drawn up, it is important to
                                    operationally define key variables so it is quite clear
                                        what is being measured. Kerlinger and Lee (2000)
                                    define an operational definition as something that gives
                                    meaning to a construct or a variable by setting out the
                                    activities or 'operations' that are necessary to
                                    measure it. Classifying operational definitions can sometimes be
                                    quite challenging. For example, our research question might be:
                                    What factors provide the key drivers for ensuring business
                                    success in the medium term? As it stands, the question is far
                                    too vague to provide a basis for measurement. Returning to the
                                    question, we need to operationally define what we mean by
                                    'business success': is it output, profitability,
                                    cost control or perhaps a combination of all of these?
                                    Similarly, what is meant by 'medium term'? Is it
                                    one year, two years, 10 years? Going through the process of
                                    producing operational definitions allows us the opportunity to
                                    rethink some of our assumptions and may even encourage us to
                                    rewrite our original research question or questions. Note the
                                    loops back to previous stages in Figure 6.1.




Identifying Independent And Dependent Variables
Scientific research aims to identify why conditions or events occur.
                                These causes are called independent variables and the
                                resulting effects, dependent variables. A variable is a
                                property that can take different values. Thus, the focus of research
                                might be the introduction of a new performance-related pay system
                                (independent variable) which is designed to lead to greater output
                                (dependent variable). But as Black (1993) warns, relationships
                                between variables may be ones of association, but this does
                                not necessarily imply causality, that is, that changes in one
                                variable lead to changes in another. For example, after the
                                introduction of performance-related pay, output may rise, but this
                                increase may have been caused by completely different factors (for
                                example, better weather or victory by the local football team, each
                                of which might boost morale and hence output).



Independent and Dependent Variables
                                        Examples


Indeed, independent variables may act upon dependent variables only
                                indirectly via intervening variables. Thus, someone may
                                undertake high-calibre professional training hoping that this will
                                eventually lead to a higher income level. But in practice, the
                                professional training (independent variable) acts upon income level
                                (dependent variable) via its effects on the person's job
                                prospects (intervening variable, as illustrated in Figure 6.2). In addition to
                                this, Figure 6.2 also shows other
                                relationships. For example, it is conceivable that, having achieved
                                a higher level of income, some people may then want to (and be able
                                to afford) more professional training.



Variable for Research Design


In experiments, it is the independent variable that is manipulated to
                                see the effect. So, using the above example of performance-related
                                pay, we might introduce such a scheme into a company and observe the
                                effect on output. But, as has already been suggested, there may be
                                other factors at work that might influence such changes in output.
                                These are termed extraneous variables and must be
                                'controlled for', that is, the study designed in such
                                a way that the impact of extraneous variables does not enter the
                                calculations.
There are various ways of controlling for extraneous variables. One
                                is through elimination. So, using our example of
                                performance-related pay, if the study was concerned about the
                                possible influence of current status or grade, we would only choose
                                people from a certain grade for the study. Another way of
                                controlling extraneous variables is through randomization. If
                                randomization is achieved, then it is probable that the experimental
                                groups are equal in terms of all variables. It should be noted, of
                                course, that complete randomization is difficult to achieve in
                                practice. Say, for example, that we know that male and female
                                workers are exactly equally represented in the workforce. If we were
                                to take a random sample of 100 workers, we might expect to finish
                                with 50 men and 50 women. In practice, we often end up with slight
                                variations such as 48 men and 52 women. If gender constitutes the
                                independent variable of interest to the study, we might want to
                                ensure that the groups are equally represented, and randomly select
                                male workers until the numbers reached 50 and likewise for female
                                workers (see stratified random sampling, p. 221).
Figure 6.2
                                    Illustration of the relationship between dependent, independent
                                    and intervening variables



Conducting The Study
Here begins the operational stage of the research, the success of
                                which depends, not only on how the data are gathered, but on how
                                well the study has been planned. While the research strategy
                                (experimental) has been selected, there are still a variety of
                                research designs at the researcher's disposal (see
                                experimental and quasi-experimental research design, next) and these
                                have to be selected with care.


Using Descriptive And Inferential Statistics
The data are analysed using a variety of statistical methods, all of
                                which should have been selected at the planning stage. Descriptive
                                statistics are used to describe or summarize a set of data, while
                                inferential statistics are used to make inferences from the sample
                                chosen to a larger population (see Chapter
                                    25).


Accepting Or Rejecting Hypotheses
As we saw in Chapter 2, it is impossible to
                                'prove' that any theory is right. All theories are
                                provisional and tentative (until disproved). However, the weight of
                                evidence must be sufficient that a hypothesis can be accepted as
                                proved. As we will see in Chapter
                                    25, experimental design makes use of inferential statistics
                                and probability to calculate the risk involved in accepting the
                                hypothesis as true (when it is in fact false) and rejecting the
                                hypothesis as false (when it is in fact true).


Preparing The Formal Report
Particularly when a study has been sponsored or commissioned, the
                                researcher will need to prepare and deliver some kind of formal
                                presentation of the findings. At this stage the focus will be
                                on:
Why the study was conducted.What research questions and hypotheses were evaluated.How these were turned into a research design (with
                                        sufficient detail that the experiment could be
                                        replicated).What differences were observed between the hypotheses and
                                        the results.What conclusions can be drawn and whether they support or
                                        contradict the hypothesis and existing theories.
In a more organizational and less academic setting, the formal report
                                will tend to focus on the rationale for the study, the kinds of
                                questions being posed, the results, and what findings, if any, can
                                be implemented. Writing the research report is covered in detail in
                                    Chapter 26. For projects that
                                have received research funding, sponsors usually want to go beyond
                                the report and to be provided with information on how the results of
                                the project will be disseminated.




Experimental And Quasi-Experimental Research Design
The basis of true experimental design is that the researcher has control
                            over the experiment, that is, who, what, when, where and how the
                            experiment is to be conducted. This particularly includes control over
                            the 'who' of the experiment - that is, subjects are
                            assigned to conditions randomly. So, for example, a local authority
                            might seek to measure whether a refuse recycling programme was
                            effective, or not. Hence, it might run the campaign in several randomly
                            selected areas, but not in others. Where any of the elements of control
                            is either weak or lacking, the study is said to be a quasi-experiment.
                            Often, in organizational settings, for example, for practical purposes
                            it is only possible to use pre-existing groups. Hence, it is only
                            possible to select subjects from these groups rather than randomly
                            assign them (as in a true experimental study). Another important
                            difference is that while in experiments we can manipulate
                            variables, in quasi-experimental studies we can only observe
                            categories of subjects. So, we could consider the differences between
                            two groups to be the independent variable but we would not be
                            manipulating this variable. So, taking our recycling issue mentioned
                            above, we would collect data on recycling indicators across the local
                            authority, and then seek to discover what independent variables might
                            impact on different recycling rates - for example, social class,
                            ethnic group, etc.
One of the strengths of experimental design is that randomization
                            improves the control over threats to internal validity. In other
                            words, if the experimental intervention (treatment) does lead to a
                            change in the dependent variable, there is some justification for
                            believing that this has been caused by the treatment itself, and not
                            just by the effect of some extraneous variable. Yet it should not be
                            assumed that random assignment is the goal of all experimental studies.
                            As Hedrick et al. (1993) point out, using an experimental group
                            also means using a control group who do not receive the
                            intervention. Even if the treatment does not prove to be effective, it
                            usually comes with more resources. The control group will be denied
                            these, and for a long period if it is a longitudinal study. For example,
                            in the recycling example, above, those in the control group would not
                            receive any potential benefits of the recycling campaign. This of course
                            can be rectified if they are presented with the campaign benefits but
                            after the study is over. However, this would still be after any benefits
                            enjoyed by those in the experimental group - an institutional
                            review board might not approve such a study because of these time
                            lags.



Experimental Design


One of the strengths of a quasi-experimental design is that it is about
                            as near as one can get to an experimental design, so it can support
                            causal inferences. In the words of Hedrick et al. (1993), it provides
                            'a mechanism for chipping away at the uncertainty surrounding the
                            existence of a specific causal relationship' (1993: 62).
                            Quasi-experimental designs are best used when:
Randomization is too expensive, unfeasible to attempt or
                                    impossible to monitor closely.There are difficulties, including ethical considerations, in
                                    withholding the treatment.The study is retrospective and the programme being studied is
                                    already under way.
According to McBurney and White (2009), generally, experimental designs
                            are usually considered superior to quasi-experimental (and
                            quasi-experimental to non-experimental). However, it may not always be possible to replicate
                            social, organizational or behavioural conditions in a laboratory
                            setting. Therefore, observation in a field setting, say, might be
                            preferable to an experiment because the advantage of realism outweighs
                            the loss of control. The broad differences between experimental,
                            quasi-experimental and non-experimental studies are summarized in Table 6.3, and an example of a
                            quasi-experimental design provided in Case Study 6.2.



Image 6.1 A
                                coaching session© iStock.com / kzenon

Case Study 6.2

A Quasi-Experimental Design
Leonard-Cross (2010) reports on a research study conducted in a
                                    large public sector organization, employing over 3,000 staff in
                                    12 geographical locations. The organization had implemented an
                                    accredited coach training programme, offering those in
                                    management level posts the opportunity to undertake a coaching
                                    qualification and then coach fellow employees. The study sought
                                    to evaluate the impact of the programme on those who had
                                    received coaching. To do this, a quasi-experimental design was
                                    adopted with participants in the survey either in a coached or
                                    non-coached group (the latter randomly selected). The researcher
                                    had no control over group allocation since membership of the
                                    coached group depended on whether participants had taken part in the coaching
                                    programme over the last two years - hence the
                                    quasi-experimental nature of the design. The non-coached staff
                                    (control group) were matched to the coached staff based on
                                    geographical location and job type and were randomly selected by
                                    contacts in each geographical location who had no additional
                                    knowledge of the research. The study found that participants
                                    that had received developmental coaching (N=61) had higher
                                    levels of self-efficacy than the control group of participants
                                    (N=57) who had not received coaching.


Source: Leonard-Cross, 2010



Activity 6.3
Taking Case Study 6.2, explain:
Why this is a quasi-experimental rather than an experimental
                                        study.Why the non-coaching (control) group were matched against
                                        the coached group based on geographical location and job
                                        type.
Suggested answers are provided at the end of the chapter.



Let us take a look at a number of research designs, starting with
                            frequently used (but faulty designs) and then some sound designs.

Faulty Designs To Avoid

Design 1: Non-Experimental With Intact Group
In this design, an intact group is taken and attempts made to
                                    discover why changes in an independent variable occurred. There
                                    is no attempt made here to manipulate any independent variables
                                    - hence the design is non-experimental (see Table 6.4). Say that a
                                    voluntary organization analyses its charitable donation patterns
                                    over the past three years by geographic region. The dependent
                                    variable is the level of charitable donations for each region.
                                    The independent variable is not manipulated but is imagined. In
                                    other words, researchers would conduct a study that would try to
                                    find explanations for any regional differences, perhaps using
                                    documentary evidence. Clearly, the problem here is providing
                                    convincing evidence of causation - that a particular
                                    independent variable caused the changes in the dependent
                                    variable.
In their influential work, Campbell and Stanley (1963) describe
                                    designs that are devoid of a control group as being of almost no
                                    scientific value. This is not to say that they are completely
                                    worthless. Each design might reveal some interesting evidence of
                                    value to an organization, but they are worthless in the sense
                                    that it would be a mistake to draw firm conclusions from
                                    them.






Design 2: Post-Test Only With Non-Equivalent
                                    Control Groups
In this type of design, a treatment is given to one group (the
                                    experimental group), but not to another (the control). Both
                                    groups are then given a post-test to see if the treatment
                                    has been effective (see Table
                                        6.5). Unfortunately, subjects have not been randomly
                                    allocated between the experimental and control groups, so that
                                    it is impossible to say that the two groups are equivalent. If,
                                    say, the experimental group performs better in the test, it is
                                    not possible to rule out the possibility that this was because
                                    the subjects in this group were more able or better motivated.
                                    Say, for example, that in a training setting, one group of
                                    participants is given coaching to improve their interpersonal
                                    skills, but a control group does not receive the coaching. Both
                                    take a post-test but the control group does better! This may be
                                    because there was no random allocation of subjects (both groups
                                    were taken intact) and it so happens that there are more able
                                    participants in the control group (or some had received coaching
                                    in the past).





Design 3: One Group, Pre-Test/Post-Test
In Design 3, a group is measured on the dependent variable by a
                                        pre-test, an independent variable is introduced, and
                                    the dependent variable measured by a post-test (see Table 6.6). So, an
                                    organization could measure staff attitudes towards racial
                                    tolerance, introduce a race-awareness programme, and measure
                                    staff attitudes once the programme was completed. Any change in
                                    attitudes would be measured by changes in scores between the two
                                    tests.



This design is an improvement on Design 1 as it appears that any
                                    changes in attitude could be attributed to the impact of the
                                    treatment - the attitude training. Unfortunately, as
                                    Campbell and Stanley (1963) point out, there are other factors
                                    that could have affected the post-test score. These can impact
                                    on the experiment's internal validity, that is, the
                                    extent to which we can be sure that experimental treatments did
                                    make a difference to the independent variable(s). Such factors
                                    include:
Maturation
effects: people learn over time, which might
                                            affect scores on both mental ability and attitude, or
                                            they may grow more fatigued over time, which may also
                                            affect their post-test scores.Measurement procedures: the pre-test itself might
                                            have made the subjects more sensitive to race issues and
                                            influenced their responses on the post-test. Both
                                            controversial and memory issues are prone to be
                                            influenced in this way.Instrumentation: in which changes, say, in the
                                            observers or scorers used to assess the test results may
                                            affect the scores obtained.Experimental
mortality: or the differential loss of
                                            respondents from one group compared to the other, for
                                            example, through absence, sickness or resignations.Extraneous variables might influence the results,
                                            particularly if there is a large time gap between the
                                            pre-test and post-test.



Some Sound Designs
McBurney and White (2009) state that there is no such thing as a
                                perfect experiment. Nevertheless, there are two elements of design
                                that provide some control over threats to validity and which form
                                the basis of all sound experimental designs: (a) the existence of a
                                control group or a control condition; (b) the random allocation of
                                subjects to groups. Some of the principles of random assignment are
                                explained in the following Web link.

On The Web 6.1
Watch the following video clip to understand what a random
                                    assignment is. The URL for the video clip can be accessed via
                                    the companion website:

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V_GIjFw6RZE




Random Assignment






Design 4: Experimental Group With Control
In this design, subjects are randomly assigned to each of the
                                    experimental and control groups, which means that, at least
                                    theoretically, all independent variables are controlled (see Table 6.7). Hence, again
                                    using our racial tolerance example, the study would randomly
                                    assign groups of people to both the experimental and control
                                    groups.
Image 6.2
                                        An experimental group receiving training and a control
                                        group© iStock.com / Geber86© iStock.com / shironosov
The experimental group
                                    would receive the treatment (the race-awareness training) while
                                    the control group would not receive the training. Notice that
                                    any extraneous variables, such as the effects of the pre-test on
                                    attitudes, would be controlled for, since the impact should be
                                    the same on both the experimental and control groups. If the
                                    training has been genuinely successful, then the improvements in
                                    test scores for the experimental group should exceed those for
                                    the control group.





Design 5: Quasi-Experimental Design With
                                    Non-Equivalent Control
Recall that one of the features of quasi-experimental designs is
                                    that it is not possible for the researcher to control the
                                    assignment of subjects to conditions, and he/she will often have
                                    to take groups that are intact (see Table
                                        6.8). For example, studies of professional development
                                    will often have to use training groups that already exist. A
                                    typical feature of quasi-experiments is where we have an
                                    experimental and a control group, but subjects have not been
                                    randomly allocated to either of the two groups.



The use of a control group makes this design superior to Designs
                                    1, 2 and 3, since at least the impact of extraneous variables is
                                    controlled for, but not as reliable as Design 4. If steps can be
                                    taken to improve the equivalence between the two groups then
                                    this will improve the validity of the study. Matching, for
                                    example, will help in this direction. Here, steps are taken to
                                    match subjects between groups against significant variables such
                                    as age, sex, income, etc. If matching is not possible, then at
                                    least both groups should be chosen from the same population. So,
                                    for example, if we are investigating the impact of an incentives
                                    package on job performance, we would want to match the
                                    experimental (incentives) group and control (non-incentives)
                                    group against key variables such as age, work role and
                                    seniority.
One of the challenges of using a non-equivalent control group
                                    design is in the analysis of the results. McBurney and White
                                    (2009) distinguish between desired result patterns and those
                                    that it is impossible to interpret. In pattern A (Figure 6.3), for example,
                                    both the experimental and control groups exhibit the same
                                    performance in a pre-test, but only the experimental group
                                    improves its performance in the post-test. Although the
                                    experimental and control groups are not equivalent, their
                                    performances can be compared because their behaviour was the same at the
                                    beginning. A similar situation pertains for pattern B -
                                    the experimental group performed worse than the control group in
                                    the pre-test but improved in the post-test, with the control
                                    showing no improvement. It would be difficult to find a reason
                                    as to why this process had occurred by chance alone.
Pattern C, however, is much harder to interpret. Although it is
                                    true that the performance of the experimental group has
                                    improved, the lack of improvement by the control group may be
                                    due to the ceiling effect - they began by being better
                                    than the experimental group and it may not be possible to
                                    improve on this level of performance. Hence, it cannot be
                                    deduced that the improvement in the experimental group was due
                                    to the treatment. In pattern D the performance of both the
                                    experimental and control groups has improved, with the
                                    experimental group improving to a higher level. At first sight
                                    this might appear to be a significant result but a claim for
                                    this would be mistaken since both groups have improved their
                                    performance by the same proportion.


Design 6: Developmental Designs
Like interrupted time-series designs, developmental
                                    designs involve measurement across time and, again, do not
                                    involve the use of control groups. One kind of developmental
                                    design is the use of a cross-sectional study, which looks
                                    at a phenomenon at a particular period of time. For example, a
                                    cross-sectional design might study the determinants of accidents
                                    in an organization. A survey might be used to calculate an
                                    average number of days lost in accidents per employee. The next
                                    stage of the survey might examine accident rates by age group,
                                    gender, occupational role and seniority. One of the advantages
                                    of cross-sectional design is that it can reveal associations
                                    among variables (age, gender, etc.). But what it cannot do is
                                    reveal causation. To achieve this, we would have to turn to a
                                        longitudinal study, taking a series of samples over
                                    time. The problem here, however, is that it may be difficult to
                                    gain access to the same set of people over a long period.
                                    Indeed, even different sets of researchers may have to be
                                    employed.
Figure 6.3
                                        Interpretable and uninterpretable patterns of results in a
                                        non-equivalent control group design with pre-test and
                                        post-testSource: Adapted from McBurney
                                        and White, Research Methods, 2009. Reproduced with
                                        permission of Thomson / Wadsworth via Copyright Clearance
                                        Center



Design 7: Factorial Designs
The designs we have considered so far have involved
                                        manipulation or change in one independent variable.
                                    Sometimes, however, it becomes necessary to investigate the
                                    impact of changes in two or more variables. One reason for this
                                    could be that there is more than one alternative hypothesis to
                                    confirm or reject. Another reason might be to explore
                                    relationships and interactions between variables. Here we use a
                                    factorial design which allows us to look at all possible
                                    combinations of selected values.
The simplest form is where we have two variables, each of which
                                    has two values or levels. Hence, it is known as a two-by-two (2
                                    × 2) factorial design. In Figure 6.4, for example, the two variables are light
                                    and heat, each of which has two levels (cold/hot and
                                    dull/bright). Hence, we have four possible combinations, as
                                    illustrated. We could conduct an experiment to see which
                                    combination of factors gives rise to the most attentiveness
                                    (measured, say, by production levels, or on a self-assessment
                                    questionnaire) in a workplace. We might find, for example, that
                                    dull light combined with both heat and cold leads to low levels
                                    of attentiveness, as do bright/hot conditions; but the
                                    interaction of brightness with cold temperatures keeps all
                                    workers 'on their toes'!
Figure 6.4
                                        A 2 × 2 factorial design showing all possible
                                        combinations of factors





Generalizing From Samples To Populations
A typical human trait is to make generalizations from limited experience
                            or information. For example, we may ask a member of staff what they
                            think of the new company environmentally friendly transport policy. We
                            may infer that this could be the opinion throughout the organization,
                            the entire workforce constituting what in research terms is known as the
                            population. A population can be defined as the total number of possible
                            units or elements that are included in the study. If it is not possible
                            to evaluate the entire population (because of its large size or a lack
                            of research resources), then we might select a sample of
                            employees for evaluation. According to Fink, 'A good sample is a
                            miniature of the population - just like it, only smaller'
                            (2002a: 1).


Top Tip 6.1
The word population can often cause some confusion. When we use
                                    this word in research methods we do not usually mean the
                                    population of a country. In research, a population refers to a
                                    group that have something in common - for example,
                                    Glasgow human resource managers, Berlin bar owners or Parisian
                                    journalists.





The Process Of Selecting Samples
A sample will be chosen by a researcher on the basis that it is a
                                    representative sample of the population as a whole, that
                                is, the sample's main characteristics are similar or
                                identical to those of the population. Samples are selected from a
                                    sampling frame, that is, a list of the population
                                elements (see Figure 6.5). Notice that, while
                                every attempt will be made to select a sampling frame that provides
                                details of the entire population, practical circumstances may make
                                the sampling frame incomplete. For example, the population may
                                comprise all people working in airport security over a weekend, but
                                the human resources records may have missed out some staff by
                                mistake, whilst new starters have not even been entered onto the
                                database yet. The research sample itself might be less than the
                                sampling frame just because using all sampling frame records is too
                                expensive. But having established the sampling frame and how many
                                people we are going to use, how do we choose them?



Population





Representative Sample


Most methods utilized to achieve representative samples depend, in
                                some way, on the process of random assignment. Random probability
                                sampling is the selecting of a random sample such that each member
                                of the population has an equal chance of being selected. Clearly,
                                this can present practical problems. Can we, for example, acquire a
                                full list of company employees from which to draw the sample (the
                                sampling frame)? But as Black (1993) warns, even after taking a
                                random sample, there remains a finite possibility that it may not be
                                representative of the population after all. The chances of this
                                happening are reduced if the study can be replicated, that is, other
                                random samples are used and studied. Nevertheless, the chances of a
                                sample being representative are higher through random
                                selection than if the sample is purposive (specifically selected by
                                the researcher).
Of course, we may not always want to attain completely random
                                samples. Again using the simple example of gender, a factory
                                workforce of 100 people might comprise 90 women and 10 men. A random
                                sample of 25 people might give us 23 women and 2 men. Clearly, if
                                gender is the independent variable, a sample of 2 men would probably
                                be of little value to the study. In this case, we might use
                                stratified random sampling by deciding to randomly sample female
                                workers until 15 are picked and follow the same strategy but
                                oversample for men until we have a sample of 10. Let us look at some
                                of the approaches to achieving representativeness in samples.
Figure 6.5
                                    Relationship between the population, sampling frame and
                                    sample


What Size Sample Should We Use?
The first stage is to determine the actual size of the sample needed.
                                Before doing this, we need to decide on the size of the
                                    confidence interval. This is the range of figures between
                                which the population parameter is expected to lie. Say we set
                                the confidence interval at 4 per cent, and 45 per cent of the
                                population pick a particular answer. This means that we are saying
                                that we are confident that between 41 per cent (45 − 4) and
                                49 per cent (45 + 4) of the entire population would have
                                picked that answer. We also decide on a confidence level,
                                usually of either 95 per cent or 99 per cent. This states the
                                probability of including the population mean within the
                                confidence interval. This is chosen before working out the
                                confidence interval. In many studies, a confidence level of 95 per
                                cent is often deemed sufficient. In medical research, a level of 99
                                per cent is usually taken because of the need to be highly confident
                                of estimates. Experimenting with the next Activity should make this
                                clearer.



Confidence Intervals



On The Web 6.2
To calculate the size of sample you need from a given size of
                                    population click on the following link: http://www.surveysystem.com/sscalc.htm. The URL for
                                    this webpage can be found on the companion website (https://study.sagepub.com/grayresearchbusiness)



Sample Size Calculator






Selecting Random Samples
Having estimated the size of sample you need, you can now go about
                                randomly selecting it. As we have seen, randomization is the process
                                of assigning subjects to experimental and control groups such that
                                the subjects have an equal chance of being assigned to either group.
                                The process of random selection can be accomplished either by using
                                the appropriate statistical table (see Table
                                    6.9) or using a special computer program (see Activity 6.4).
Say you have acquired a list of 1,000 of the company's staff
                                from which you want to randomly select 50 as your research sample.
                                First, ascribe a number to each staff member on the list. Then,
                                using a pencil, close your eyes and point to part of the table. If
                                you happen to select, say, 707, the top number of the third column
                                    (Table 6.9), take the first two
                                numbers, 70, and work down your list of random numbers in the table
                                to the 70th. Hence, your first number is 799. Then, using the last
                                digit from 707 and the first digit of the next three digit figure,
                                872, you get 78. Select the 78th position down the list which gives
                                you 343. Go back to the number 872 and choose the last two digits of
                                that number, 72, and take the 72nd number from the table, etc.
                                Repeat this process until 50 names have been selected. Now take a
                                look at the Web randomizer (Activity 6.4) - you may find it
                                easier!


Source: Adapted from Black,
                                    1993


Activity 6.4
Your sample comprises 100 people from whom you want to randomly
                                    select 10 as your sample. All people are allocated a number from
                                    1 to 100. You now want to produce a set of 10 random numbers
                                    ranging from 1 to 100. In your Web browser, go the following
                                    address:

http://www.randomizer.org/

Click on [Randomizer] then respond as follows to the questions
                                    presented:
How many sets of numbers do you want to generate? =
                                            1How many numbers per set? = 10Number range = 1 to 100Do you wish each number in a set to remain unique? =
                                            YesDo you wish to sort your outputted numbers (from least
                                            to greatest?) = Yes
Click on [Randomize Now!]
You should see a set of 10 random numbers arranged in a row.




Types Of Random Sample
In an ideal world, you would have sufficient time and resources to
                                choose completely random samples. In the real world, due to
                                practical constraints, you may have to choose other types of
                                sampling techniques. In quantitative research, random samples are
                                usually preferable to non-random. Given the importance of sampling
                                in research design (both quantitative and qualitative designs), Chapter 9, Sampling Strategies
                                in Business, is entirely devoted to this theme.

Top Tip 6.2
Research students often agonize about the need to select a random
                                    sample. Indeed, even when using non-random samples, they can
                                    become tempted to make claims that the sample was somehow
                                    randomly selected. This is misguided for a number of reasons.
                                    Firstly, these kinds of studies (especially when undertaken for
                                    the purpose of writing a thesis or dissertation), for practical
                                    purposes, often work with fairly modest sample sizes, meaning
                                    that the ability to generalize is limited. Secondly, when
                                    working with such modest samples, it is the quality
                                    (representativeness) of the sample that becomes more important
                                    rather than the size.



Generalizing From Samples To Populations
One of the objectives of experimental research is to achieve a
                                situation where the results of a study using a sample can be
                                generalized. According to Kerlinger and Lee (2000), generalizing
                                means that the results of a study can be applied to other subjects,
                                groups or conditions. Generalizing means that the fruits of research
                                can have a broader application than merely being limited to a small
                                group. For example, say that researchers evaluated a staff
                                development programme in which staff were taught to adopt new health
                                and safety practices to reduce accident rates. If the study showed
                                that scores for the trained group were significantly better than for
                                a control group, then the results might be of relevance to other
                                health and safety policy makers. On the other hand, just because a
                                study does not find results that are capable of generalization does
                                not mean they have no relevance. A small case study, for example,
                                may produce findings that are interesting and possibly indicative of
                                trends worthy of replication by further research. And from a
                                perspective-seeking view they may be seen as valid in their own
                                right. The important point is that you should not make firm or
                                exaggerated claims on the basis of small, unrepresentative
                                samples.

Employability Skill 6.1

Understanding The Strengths And Weaknesses Of
                                        Selected Sampling Design
When businesses make decisions, they want to be sure that the
                                        data they use is trustworthy and can be relied on. If
                                        sampling is involved (which it often is), then the type of
                                        sampling strategy used and its strengths and weaknesses need
                                        to be understood and taken into account in interpreting
                                        data.






Designing Valid And Reliable Research Instruments
We have looked, so far, at some of the general principles of research
                            design, including the use of experimental and control groups and the
                            selection of representative samples so that results can be generalized
                            to a larger population. However, for defensible statistical
                                inferences to be made on the basis of the data, any research
                            tools used (such as questionnaires, interview schedules and observation
                            schedules) must be internally valid and reliable. To achieve external
                            validity, such instruments must be designed in such a way that
                            generalizations can be made from the analysis of the sample data to the
                            population as a whole.



Top Tip: Using Quantitative Methods


This section deals with some of the general principles of validity and
                            reliability, but these important issues are taken up in more detail when
                            describing the design of specific data collection tools in later
                            chapters.

Principles Of Validity
To ensure validity, a research instrument must measure what it was
                                intended to measure. This may sound like an obvious statement, but
                                many novice researchers make the mistake of asking spurious
                                questions in a misguided attempt to collect as much data as possible
                                - just in case some of it may be needed at the analysis
                                stage! For example, a bank survey might seek to measure customer
                                attitudes towards the counter services it provides, but the data
                                gathering instrument might (erroneously) stray into asking about
                                their attitudes to new financial products. This might be important,
                                but not relevant to the study itself. In discussing validity,
                                McBurney and White (2009) pose the interesting analogy of using a
                                measurement of hat size to determine intelligence. You could measure
                                someone's hat size, say, every hour and always come up with
                                the same result. The test, then, is reliable. However, it is not
                                valid, because hat size has nothing to do with what is being
                                measured.
In Figure 6.6 we can see that only
                                part of the research instrument covers the subject areas that have
                                been operationally defined. Some operationally defined subjects have
                                not been addressed by the instrument (Zone of Neglect), while other
                                parts of the instrument cover issues of no direct relevance to the
                                research study at all (Zone of Invalidity). To achieve validity, the
                                research instrument subject area and operationally defined subject
                                areas must exactly match (Zone of Validity).
The issue of validity, however, is much more complex than this. The
                                central question around validity is whether a measure of a concept
                                really measures that concept - does it measure what it
                                    claims to measure? So, for example, do IQ tests really
                                measure intelligence? Do formal examinations measure academic
                                ability? At a basic level, validity can be defined as eight types:
                                    face, internal, external, criterion,
                                    construct, content, predictive and
                                    statistical validity. We will look at each in turn.

Face Validity
When developing a new research instrument (such as a
                                    questionnaire), it is vital that it is able to demonstrate at
                                    least face validity otherwise all is lost. Face validity means
                                    that the instrument at least appears to measure what it was
                                    designed to measure. But how do we demonstrate such face
                                    validity? For a start, it is up to the researcher to study their
                                    own instrument and critically evaluate what they have produced.
                                    Because they are so 'close' to their own work, the
                                    next step is to get other people to comment, particularly if
                                    they are subject experts in relation to the concept being
                                    measured. However, as McBurney and White (2009) warn, face
                                    validity is not an end in itself. A test may have a high or low
                                    degree of validity regardless of whether it has face validity or
                                    not.



Face Validity


Figure 6.6
                                        Relationship between research instrument and operationally
                                        defined subject areas and the issue of validity


Top Tip 6.3
In the event that you do not have ready access to
                                            relevant subject matter experts, the next best step is
                                            to ask friends or colleagues to evaluate the instrument.
                                            Make it clear to them what the instrument is meant to
                                            measure and that you want a critical
                                            appraisal.




Internal Validity
Internal validity refers to correlation questions (cause and
                                    effect) and to the extent to which causal conclusions can be
                                    drawn. If we take, for example, an evaluation of the impact of a
                                    product promotion campaign, one group receives the promotional
                                    material (the experimental group) while one does not (the
                                    control group). Possible confounding variables are
                                    controlled for, by trying to make sure that participants in each
                                    group are of similar ages and educational attainment. Internal
                                    validity (the impact of the campaign) may be helped by testing
                                    only those who are willing to participate in the experiment. But
                                    this reduces the completely random nature of the experimental
                                    group and hence the external validity of the study (see
                                    next).



Interval Validity




External Validity
This is the extent to which it is possible to generalize from the
                                    relationships found in the data within the sample's
                                    experimental subjects to a larger population or setting (Cook
                                    and Campbell, 1979). Clearly, this is important in experimental
                                    and quasi-experimental studies where sampling is required and
                                    where the potential for generalizing findings is often an issue.
                                    As Robson (2002) points out, the argument for generalization can
                                    be made by either direct demonstration or by making a
                                        case. The problem of generalizing from a study is that
                                    cynics can argue that its results are of relevance only to its
                                    particular setting. Direct demonstration, then, involves
                                    carrying out further studies involving different participants
                                    and in different settings. If the findings can be replicated
                                    (often through a series of demonstrations), then the argument
                                    for generalizing becomes stronger. Making a case simply involves
                                    the construction of a reasoned argument that the findings can be
                                    generalized. So, this would set out to show that the group(s)
                                    being studied, or the setting or period, share certain essential
                                    characteristics with other groups, settings or periods (Campbell
                                    and Stanley, 1963).



External Validity





Criterion Validity
This is where we compare how people have answered a new measure
                                    of a concept, with existing, widely accepted measures of a
                                    concept. If answers on the new and established measures are
                                    highly correlated, then it is usually assumed that the new
                                    measure possesses criterion validity. However, as de Vaus (2002)
                                    suggests, a low correlation may simply mean that the old measure
                                    was invalid. Furthermore, many concepts have no well-established
                                    measures against which to check the new measure. Hence,
                                    Oppenheim (1992) is probably correct to state that good
                                    criterion measures are notoriously hard to find.



Criterion Validity




Construct Validity
Construct validity is concerned with the measurement of abstract
                                    concepts and traits, such as ability, anxiety, attitude,
                                    knowledge, etc. and is concerned with whether the indicators
                                    capture the expected relationships among the concepts being
                                    researched (Cook and Campbell, 1979). As we saw above, each of
                                    these traits has to be operationally defined before it can be
                                    measured. Taking each trait, the researcher proceeds to
                                    elaborate on all of the characteristics that make up that trait.
                                    For example, if we use the construct 'confidence'
                                    within a particular research context this might be defined
                                    as:
The ability to make quick decisions.Sticking with personal decisions once these are
                                            made.Strong interpersonal skills.



Construct Validity


You might reflect here that, in fleshing out traits to this level
                                    of detail, it is only a relatively short step to the creation of
                                    a research instrument like a questionnaire. While a test that
                                    has construct validity should measure what it intends to
                                    measure, it is equally important that it should not measure
                                    theoretically unrelated constructs (McBurney and White, 2009).
                                    So, for example, a test designed to measure attitudes to change
                                    should not contain items that seek to measure, say,
                                    extraversion.


Content Validity
Content validity is associated with validating the content of a
                                    test or examination. Since it is important to create a match
                                    between what is taught and what is tested, this might include
                                    comparing the content and cognitive level of an achievement test
                                    with the original specifications in a syllabus. Let us take the
                                    case of a computer company that provides a training programme in
                                    fault finding and rectification for those retail companies that
                                    sell its products. After a two-day training programme,
                                    participants are given a 50-question multiple-choice test. The
                                    computer company will want to ensure that the content of the
                                    test is matched with the content of the training programme so
                                    that the entire syllabus is covered, and only issues that have
                                    been taught are assessed. Equally, it will want to assure itself
                                    that it has delivered the training programme at a level so that
                                    attendees learn the skills of problem-solving. The assessment,
                                    then, will also have to be at this problem-solving level (rather
                                    than, say, merely applying rules, or recalling facts) for the
                                    test to be valid.



Content Validity





Predictive Validity
This shows how well a test can forecast a future trait such as
                                    job performance or attainment. It is no use if a test for
                                    identifying 'talent' in an organization has both
                                    construct and content validity but fails to identify, say, those
                                    who are likely to be 'high performers' in a key
                                    work role.



Predictive Validity




Statistical Validity
This is the extent to which a study has made use of the
                                    appropriate design and statistical methods that will allow it to
                                    detect the effects that are present.



Stability Coefficient





Principles Of Reliability
According to Black (1999) reliability is an indication of consistency
                                between two measures of the same thing. These measures could be:
Two separate instruments.Two similar halves of an instrument (for example, two halves
                                        of a questionnaire).The same instrument applied on two occasions.The same instrument administered by two different
                                        people.
If we were to take another sort of measuring device, a ruler, how
                                sure can we be that it is always a reliable measure? If it is made
                                of metal, does it expand in extreme heat and therefore give
                                different readings on hot and cold days? Alternatively, we might use
                                it on two different days with similar temperatures, but do we mark
                                off the measurement of a line on a piece of paper with the same
                                degree of care and accuracy? For a research tool to be reliable we
                                would expect it to give us the same results when something was
                                measured yesterday and today (providing the underlying trait(s)
                                being measured has not changed). Similarly, any differences found in
                                traits between two different people we would expect to be based on
                                real differences between the individuals and not be due to
                                inconsistencies in the measuring instrument. Reliability is never
                                perfect and so is measured as a correlation coefficient. In
                                the social and business sciences it is rarely above 0.90. If a
                                research instrument is unreliable, it cannot be valid. Like
                                validity, there are several ways of measuring reliability. Black
                                (1993) describes five of them.

Stability
This measures the scores achieved on the same test on two
                                    different occasions. Any difference is called subject
                                        error. For example, a survey of employee attitudes
                                    towards their workplace may yield different results if taken on
                                    a Monday than on a Friday. To avoid this, the survey should be
                                    taken at a more neutral time of the week.


Equivalence
Another way of testing the reliability of an instrument is by
                                    comparing the responses of a set of subjects with responses made
                                    by the same set of subjects on another instrument (preferably on
                                    the same day). This procedure is useful for evaluating the
                                    equivalence of a new test compared to an existing one.



Internal Reliability
This measures the extent to which a test or questionnaire is
                                    homogenous. In other words, it seeks to measure the extent to
                                    which the items on the instrument 'hang together'
                                    (Pallant, 2013; Sekaran and Bougie, 2013). Are the individual
                                    scale items measuring the same construct? Internal reliability
                                    is measured by Cronbach's alpha test which calculates the
                                    average of all split-half reliability coefficients. An alpha
                                    coefficient varies between 1 (perfect internal reliability) to 0
                                    (no internal reliability). As a rule of thumb a figure of .7 or
                                    above is deemed acceptable. However, as Pallant (2013) warns,
                                    Cronbach's alpha results are quite sensitive to the
                                    number of items on a scale. For short scales (with items fewer
                                    than 10) it can be quite common to find Cronbach values as low
                                    as .5.


Inter-Judge Reliability
Inter-judge reliability compares the consistency of
                                    observations when more than one person is judging. An example
                                    would be where two people judge the performance of a member of
                                    an organization's marketing staff in selling a product
                                    over the telephone to the public. The reliability of the
                                    observation is provided by the degree to which the views
                                    (scores) of each judge correlate. Observer error can be
                                    reduced by using a high degree of structure to the research
                                    through the use of a structured observation schedule or
                                    questionnaire.


Top Tip 6.4
A useful way of measuring inter-judge reliability is
                                            through use of the Kappa score (recall the calculation
                                            in Chapter 5), which
                                            compares the level of agreement between two people
                                            against what might have been predicted by chance.




Intra-Judge Reliability
Where a large amount of data has been collected by a researcher
                                    over time the consistency of observations or scores can be
                                    checked by taking a sample set of observations or scores and
                                    repeating them. A further problem, and often a significant one,
                                    is bias on the part of respondents. It is quite common,
                                    for example, for respondents to provide a response they think
                                    the researcher is seeking. Particularly if the researcher is
                                    seen to be representing 'management', respondents
                                    may be reluctant to provide honest answers if these are critical
                                    of the organization. Even assurances of confidentiality may not
                                    be enough to encourage complete honesty.



Getting Truth in Surveys



Activity 6.5
An organization representing the interests of small
                                        businesses in London plans to conduct a survey to measure
                                        business optimism, normally a guide to future investment
                                        intentions and economic growth.The aims of the survey are
                                        to: (a) measure the current level of business optimism and
                                        compare this with levels over the last three years; (b)
                                        measure the causes of this level of optimism; (c) establish
                                        links between levels of optimism and business intentions,
                                        such as hiring new employees and investment plans.
There are insufficient financial resources to send the
                                        questionnaire to all businesses in London so you must
                                        select a sample.
What is the population for this research?What is the sampling frame?What kind of sample will you select? Justify your
                                                choice.Identify dependent and independent variables.Produce an appropriate research design.Using the aims outlined above, construct a valid and
                                                reliable research instrument.
Suggested answers are provided at the end of the chapter.





Summary
The structure of experimental research generally comprises two
                                    stages: the planning stage and the operational stage.Experimental research begins from a priori questions or
                                    hypotheses that the research is designed to test. Research
                                    questions should express a relationship between variables. A
                                    hypothesis is predictive and capable of being tested.Dependent variables are what experimental research designs are
                                    meant to affect through the manipulation of one or more
                                    independent variables.In a true experimental design the researcher has control over
                                    the experiment: who, what, when, where and how the experiment is
                                    to be conducted. This includes control over the who of the
                                    experiment - that is, subjects are assigned to conditions
                                    randomly.Where any of these elements of control is either weak or
                                    lacking, the study is said to be a quasi-experiment.In true experiments, it is possible to assign subjects to
                                    conditions, whereas in quasi-experiments subjects are selected
                                    from previously existing groups.Research instruments need to be both valid and reliable.
                                    Validity means that an instrument measures what it is intended
                                    to measure. Reliability means that an instrument is consistent
                                    in this measurement.

Review Questions
The use of control groups is essential in quantitative
                                        research designs. Do you agree with this view?Studies that make use of descriptive (but not inferential)
                                        statistics are of limited value. Discuss.Pre-test/post-test quantitative designs have been
                                        criticized. What practical steps can be taken to address the
                                        limitations of such a design if it is the only one
                                        available?Should generalization always be the goal of
                                        quantitative research?




Further Reading
Creswell, J.W. (2009) Research Design: Qualitative, Quantitative, and
                                Mixed Methods Approaches, 3rd edn. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.
                            Although written with a broad spectrum of research designs in mind, the
                            book provides useful guidelines on writing research questions and
                            hypotheses and on quantitative methods design.
Kerlinger, F.N. and Lee, H.B. (2000) Foundations of Behavioural
                                Research, 4th edn. Fort Worth, TX: Harcourt College Publishers.
                            Excellent on the pros and cons of various experimental designs and on
                            quantitative research design in general.
McBurney, D.H. and White, T.L. (2009) Research Methods, 8th edn.
                            Belmont, CA: Wadsworth. Written from a psychology perspective, this book
                            provides a useful, largely, quantitative approach to some of the
                            principles of research design.


Journal Resources
Aguines, H. and Bradley, K.J. (2014) 'Best practice
                            recommendations for designing and implementing experimental vignette
                            methodology studies', Organizational Research Methods,
                            17(4): 351-371. Describes and recommends the use of experimental
                            vignette methodology as a way of exercising control over independent
                            variables in situations where this is difficult.
Highhouse, S. (2009) 'Designing experiments that
                            generalize', Organizational Research Methods, 12(3):
                            554-566. Discusses how research can be better designed to go
                            beyond 'mundane realism' (superficial resemblance to the
                            real world) to better design treatments.
Nyhan, R.C. and Marlowe, J.R. (1997) 'Development and psychometric
                            properties of the Organizational Trust Inventory', Evaluation
                                Review, 21(5): 614--635. Demonstrates the process of
                            scale development to produce a quantitative scale that is both valid and
                            reliable.
Pearson, A.W. and Lumpkin, G.T. (2011) 'Measurement in family
                            business research: How do we measure up?', Family Business
                                Review, 24(4): 287-291. Discusses the importance of
                            construct validity and reliability in business research. Offers
                            guidelines for the development of multi-item measures.


Suggested Answers For Activity 6.1
Descriptive.Descriptive.Impact.Correlation.Normative.


Suggested Answers For Activity 6.2
Not a good hypothesis, since it contains the subjective word
                                    'disappointing'. The statement should contain a
                                    parameter capable of measurement.This is a research question (to which there could be a variety
                                    of answers) not a hypothesis, capable of being tested.A good hypothesis since it is testable. Levels of patient
                                    satisfaction can be measured and we can see whether levels
                                    increase, decrease or stay the same.


Suggested Answers For Activity 6.3
This is a quasi-experimental study because there was no
                                    opportunity to randomly assign subjects to the condition (the
                                    coaching group).The non-coached staff (control group) were matched to the
                                    coached staff based on geographical location and job type so as
                                    to control for these extraneous variables. For example, the
                                    proportion of coached and non-coached staff for each
                                    geographical region were kept approximately the same.


Suggested Answers For Activity 6.5
The population comprises all small businesses in London.The sampling frame consists of the organization's
                                    extensive (but probably incomplete) database of members. Some
                                    sizes of business (for example, medium-sized) may be more
                                    represented in the sampling frame than, say, micro-businesses
                                    (less than 10 employees) because they can afford the membership
                                    fees.One approach would be to take a completely random sample by
                                    allotting a number to businesses in the organization's
                                    database of members. However, it might be hypothesized that
                                    certain businesses, for example, medium-sized companies, might
                                    have a greater impact on employment and growth. Hence, an
                                    alternative approach would be to take a purposive sample that
                                    focuses more heavily on this size of business. The results might
                                    highlight the perceptions of these businesses, but could not be
                                    claimed to be representative of London small businesses as a
                                    whole.The independent variable is business optimism. There are many
                                    potential dependent variables but some might include hiring
                                    intentions, capital expenditure plans, the development of new
                                    products or services, innovation, etc.

Don't forget to visit the companion website at https://study.sagepub.com/grayresearchbusiness for the
                                following resources which support this chapter:


















7 Business Research Design:
                        Qualitative Methods

Chapter Introduction

Chapter Outline
Some criticisms of quantitative researchCharacteristics of qualitative researchParadigms and strategies for qualitative researchApproaches to qualitative designThe role of the researcherUsing the literature in qualitative researchCollecting qualitative dataEthics and qualitative researchEnsuring rigour in qualitative research


Keywords
Field settingsEthnographyEthnomethodologyPhenomenologyGrounded theoryParticipatory action researchNarrative analysisCultural studiesGender studiesSamplingTransferabilityDependabilityCredibility



Icon Key







Author Video







Chapter Objectives
After reading this chapter you will be able to:
Identify the characteristics of qualitative data.Formulate qualitative research questions.Develop a robust qualitative design, including an
                                        appropriate sampling strategy.Select and apply the criteria that make for a rigorous
                                        qualitative research study.



We saw in the previous chapter that there are
                            well established and generally accepted approaches to quantitative
                            design. As we shall see in this chapter, however, qualitative design is
                            different in a number of ways. Firstly, within qualitative research, the
                            role of the researcher is to gain a deep, intense and
                            'holistic' overview of the context under study, often
                            involving interacting within the everyday lives of individuals, groups,
                            communities and organizations. It is a naturalistic approach that seeks
                            to understand phenomena within their own context-specific settings.
                            Capturing data on the perceptions of actors in the field of study, means
                            being attentive, suspending (often called 'bracketing')
                            preconceptions about a subject and being empathetic to those being
                            studied. The focus of study becomes not just the field setting, but also
                            the researcher's role within it.
Secondly, qualitative researchers often differ in the kinds of claims
                            they make for their research. Some seek to emulate 'traditional
                            science' in attempting, for example, to make generalizations from
                            their results. Others, however, reject this approach, selecting instead
                            to conduct a study which is 'authentic', and providing
                            results that are dependable and trustworthy within a specific context
                            - for example, within an individual business or organization. The
                            types of data gathering tools and resources used by qualitative
                            researchers also tend to be different, including the use of
                            semi-structured interviews, observation, focus groups and the analysis
                            of materials such as documents, photographs, video recordings and other
                            media. This chapter deals primarily, with the design of
                            qualitative studies. Principles and processes in the analysis of
                            qualitative data are covered later in Chapter
                                25.


Some Criticisms Of Quantitative Research
Before we look in detail at qualitative research design, let us pause for
                            a moment to examine some of the most common criticisms of quantitative
                            research often made by qualitative researchers. Exploring these
                            criticisms helps us to understand the kinds of concerns held by
                            qualitative researchers and how they view the world. As the list in Table 7.1 suggests, quantitative
                            research can often involve designs that disengage the researcher from
                            the people and field they are researching. While quantitative
                            researchers would regard this positively (as a means of generating
                            objectivity and detachment), qualitative researchers would see it as
                            failing to gain access to people's social and cultural
                            constructions of their 'reality' (Guba and Lincoln, 1994;
                            Silverman, 2000). According to qualitative critics, quantitative
                            researchers claim objectivity, but end up arbitrarily defining the
                            variables in their research, or trying to explain away correlations
                            using common-sense reasoning. All research is selective and depends on
                            collecting particular sorts of evidence through the prism of particular
                            methods (Mays, 1995). For example, in a quantitative survey, the
                            categories and questions selected by the researcher may not be shared or
                            understood by respondents. Similarly, even if two respondents give the
                            same reply, their interpretation of the response may have different
                            meanings. As Flick (2009) also points out, despite methodological
                            controls in quantitative research, the researcher's personal
                            interests, and the influence of their social and cultural backgrounds
                            are difficult to avoid.




Beyond these practical complaints, quantitative research has also come
                            under attack from critical epistemological positions. As Snape and
                            Spencer (2003) relate, postmodern arguments have questioned the very
                            notion of objectivity, and also maintain that the notions of meaning and
                            reality are problematic. There can be no overarching meanings, because
                            meanings are a product of time and context. Other criticism has come
                            from neo-Marxism, feminism and race researchers who have called for a
                            greater equality between the researcher and those they research.
                            Wallerstein (1999), for example, points to the danger of power (of the
                            researcher) when undertaking evaluation projects, particularly if they
                            research on the community rather than with the community. Indeed, for
                            some, research should be a collaborative process involving the subjects
                            of the study in formulating the focus of research and the ways in which
                            it is conducted (Reason, 1994). A logical extension of this belief has
                            been the development of action research methods (see Chapter
                                13), involving the active engagement of participants in the
                            research process.


Characteristics Of Qualitative Research
Qualitative research is not built upon a unified theory or methodological
                            approach (Flick, 2009) and can adopt various theoretical stances and
                            methods, the latter including the use of observations, interviews,
                            questionnaires and document analysis. While, even today, qualitative
                            research is often regarded in some quarters as less valid and reliable
                            than its quantitative cousin, qualitative data can be a powerful source
                            for analysis. First, qualitative research is highly contextual, being
                            collected in a natural 'real life' setting, often over
                            long periods of time. Hence,
                            it goes beyond giving a mere snapshot or cross-section of events and can
                            show how and why things happen - also incorporating
                            people's own motivation, emotions, prejudices and incidents of
                            interpersonal cooperation and conflict (Charmaz, 1995). Far from lacking
                            scientific rigour, qualitative research can (in certain circumstances)
                            even be used for testing hypotheses to see if theoretical
                                propositions can be supported by the evidence. Qualitative
                            studies can be used in circumstances where relatively little is known
                            about the phenomenon, or to gain new perspectives on issues where much
                            is already known (Strauss and Corbin, 1990). Qualitative research can
                            also be used to identify the kinds of concepts or variables that might
                            later be tested quantitatively (as in a mixed methods research design
                            - see Chapter 8).



Qualitative Research


As Miles, Huberman and Saldana (2013) show, most qualitative research
                            involves a number of characteristics:
It is conducted through intense contact within a
                                    'field' or real life setting.The researcher's role is to gain a
                                    'holistic' or integrated overview of the study,
                                    including the perceptions of participants.Themes that emerge from the data are often reviewed with
                                    informants for verification.The main focus of research is to understand the ways in which
                                    people act and account for their actions.
Qualitative data are open to multiple interpretations (but some are more
                            compelling than others either on theoretical grounds or because of
                            internal consistency). As Flick (2009) points out, these interpretations
                            can include the voices of those being studied as well as that of the
                            researcher. Indeed, reflexivity - the researchers'
                            own reflections on their actions and observations in the field and their
                            feelings - become part of the data themselves. We will see what
                            kinds of factors influence these interpretations in Chapter
                                25.


Paradigms And Strategies For Qualitative Research
Qualitative research comes with a confusing array of different categories
                            and descriptive headings, which tend to be used interchangeably by
                            different scholars. So, for example, grounded theory can be seen as both
                            a 'school of thought' but also as a particular research
                            design or strategy. Qualitative research is also influenced by the kind
                            of research paradigm adopted by the researcher. At the outset, however,
                            it needs to be stressed that in qualitative research the adoption of
                            strategies and data collection methods tends to be highly flexible.
                            Indeed, it is not a case of adopting one strategy rather than another,
                            but often the combining of several strategies and methods within a
                            research design. Taking strategies of enquiry in Table
                            7.2, for example, it is both feasible and legitimate (depending on
                            the kinds of research questions asked), to adopt a case study strategy,
                            which also includes the use of participatory action research
                            within a case site (for example, a workplace). In using these combined
                            strategies, the researcher may select interviews, focus groups and
                            observations as the prime data collection methods. However, how this is
                            done will partly depend on the research paradigm adopted. For example,
                            if the researcher holds to a naturalistic tradition, the research design
                            will probably require the collection of data from representative,
                            multiple case sites using a variety of sources to achieve substantiation
                            of the findings. So, in investigating the quality of leadership
                            development in banking, the researcher would use, say, 12 banks,
                            ensuring that some were older, traditional institutions and others new
                            banks; within these categories, the researcher would ensure that there
                            were a range of sizes. Substantiation would be gained by minimal
                            interference and bias by the researcher through objective coding of
                            verbatim accounts of participants in the leadership development
                            programmes and non-participant observation by the researcher (sitting in
                            on some programmes but as unobtrusively as possible). If committed to a
                            progressive paradigm, the researcher will be less concerned with
                            replicating findings (across sites) than with achieving deep engagement
                            with participants to achieve authentic accounts of how they construct
                            their social reality. Taking the leadership example above, it might
                            include detailed interviews with leaders which would delve into the
                            context (complex and evolving banking environment) in which their
                            development is taking place. The account would also include how the
                            researcher constructs social reality through their interpretation of
                            their findings. Hence, the views and feelings of the researcher
                            (including critical self-reflections) themselves become part of the
                            research data. Table 7.2 provides an overview of
                            paradigms, strategies and methods.



Processes of Qualitative Research





Source: Adapted from Holliday,
                                2002



Activity 7.1
Examine the naturalistic and progressive paradigms outlined in Table 7.2. What major
                                differences do you see between them?



Now let us examine the strategies of enquiry described in Table 7.2 in more detail, noting
                            that a qualitative research design may utilize a number of them at the
                            same time.

Case Studies
The term case study is strongly associated with qualitative research
                                (indeed, the two are sometimes used synonymously), partly because
                                case studies allow for the generation of multiple perspectives
                                either through multiple data collection methods, or through the
                                creation of multiple accounts from a single method (Lewis, 2003).
                                The integration and contrasting of different perspectives can build
                                up rich and detailed understanding of a context. As Punch (2005)
                                asserts, a case is not easy to define since almost anything can
                                serve as a case. But typical examples include: individuals, a role
                                or occupation, organizations, a community or even a country. It
                                could even be a policy, process, crisis or event.
Case study designs are generally flexible, but at the design stage, a
                                number of issues arise that require addressing.
What is the 'unit of analysis' for the case,
                                        e.g. individuals, organizations, sector, etc.?What criteria are to be used in selecting cases for
                                        study?Who are the key participants?How many cases are there and how many participants within
                                        each case?
The design of case studies is discussed in more detail in Chapter 11.


Ethnography
Although first associated with anthropological studies, around the
                                1970s the term ethnography came to be used for describing
                                participant observation studies in social and organizational
                                settings. Ethnography seeks to understand social processes less by
                                making reports of these events (for example, through using an
                                interview), than by participating within them, often for long
                                periods of time. Overt or covert participant observation,
                                then, would be a typical approach to data collection in ethnographic
                                research (see Chapter 17). While ethnography
                                generally involves 'immersion' in the field for long
                                periods, micro-ethnography adopts a more focused approach on, say,
                                one aspect or element of a work or social setting, allowing for
                                observation over a few weeks or months.



Ethnography


Image 7.1
                                    Conducting observational field researchObserver in the field © Isobel
                                    Drury


Ethnomethodology
Ethnomethodology, founded in the 1960s by the American
                                sociologist Harold Garfinkel, studies the ways in which people make
                                sense of their social world, and accomplish their daily lives.
                                Ethnomethodologists start with the assumption that social order is
                                an illusion. While social life appears ordered, it is, in fact,
                                chaotic. Social order is constructed in the minds of actors as a
                                series of impressions which they seek to organize into a coherent
                                pattern. While ethnography seeks to answer questions about
                                    what is happening, ethnomethodology seeks answers on
                                    how realities in everyday life are accomplished (Seale,
                                1999). So, by carefully observing and analysing the processes used
                                in actors' actions, researchers will uncover the processes by
                                which these actors constantly interpret social reality (Coulon,
                                1995).



Ethnomethodology - Fieldwork




Phenomenology
Phenomenologists argue that the relation between perception and
                                objects is not passive - human consciousness actively
                                constructs the world as well as perceiving it. Phenomenological
                                ideas were first applied to social science research by the German
                                philosopher Alfred Schutz (1899-1959), who argued that social
                                reality has a specific meaning and relevance structure for people
                                who are living, thinking and experiencing it. And it is these
                                thought structures (objects) that determine their behaviour by
                                motivating it. It also follows that the thought objects constructed
                                by researchers who are trying to grasp reality, have to be founded
                                upon the thought objects of ordinary men and women living their
                                daily lives in the social world. It is necessary, then, for
                                researchers to gain access to people's common-sense thinking
                                in order to interpret and understand their actions. In other words,
                                phenomenology seeks to understand the world from the
                                participant's point of view. This can only be achieved if the
                                researcher 'brackets out' their own
                                preconceptions.



Phenomenology





Grounded Theory
First developed by Glaser and Strauss (1967), grounded theory has
                                been highly influential in qualitative research in terms of its
                                inductive but systematic approach to design and data analysis, and
                                the important principle that qualitative research is capable of
                                generating theory. Theories are not applied to the subject being
                                studied, but emerge or are discovered from the empirical data
                                themselves. Unlike quantitative approaches which seek simplicity by
                                breaking down constructs into variables, grounded theory seeks to
                                build complexity by including context (Flick, 2009). Grounded theory
                                is discussed in greater detail in Chapter
                                    25.


Participatory Action Research
Participatory action research (PAR) builds upon the action research
                                model first developed by Lewin (1946) particularly incorporating an
                                understanding of the power of group dynamics and the relationships
                                between individuals, groups and communities. Some approaches to PAR
                                have also adopted a critical pedagogy espoused by Freire (2000),
                                which seeks to empower learners to take responsibility for their
                                learning. In essence, PAR follows the cyclical processes of
                                planning, taking action, observing and reflecting. But PAR
                                distinguishes itself from other action research approaches in that
                                participants will also critically reflect on the political and
                                cultural context in which the action is taking place.



Participatory Action Research (PAR)




Narrative Analysis And Biographical Research
Narrative analysis is the analysis of a chronologically told story,
                                with a focus on how the various elements of the story are sequenced.
                                Key elements in narrative analysis include 'scripts',
                                predictive frames that people use to interpret events, and stories
                                that expand on scripts, adding evaluative elements that reveal the
                                narrator's viewpoints. Narrative analysis tends to use the
                                narrative interview as the primary method of data collection, with a
                                focus on the biographical experiences of the respondent. The
                                research focus of narrative analysis often includes issues that deal
                                with ethical, moral and cultural ambiguities. An important focus of
                                feminism is the study of lives from the narrator's
                                experience, emphasizing the role of these narratives in empowering
                                persons through a more subtle understanding of their life situation.
                                Using a small number of stories, narrative analysis can be used to
                                cast a light on the culture, complexities and contradictions in
                                organizations.



Narrative Analysis




Cultural Studies
For nineteenth-century social theorists, culture was regarded as
                                merely a by-product of wider social, economic and political forces
                                underpinning society. The everyday life of individuals was seen as a
                                product of the structural forces acting beyond the consciousness of
                                social actors. From the late nineteenth century, however, new
                                theoretical perspectives began to emerge which started to take into
                                account the individual's capacity for agency (self-motivated
                                action) in their everyday lives. During the late twentieth and early
                                twenty-first centuries, social and cultural theorists have begun to
                                conceptualize the 'everyday' as dynamic, pluralistic
                                and contested (Bennett, 2005). At the root of this transformation
                                are several interrelated factors. Firstly, there is the rupturing of
                                modernity and the decreasing importance of modernist notions such as
                                social class, gender, race and occupation. Secondly, witness the
                                increasing prevalence of media and cultural industries which have
                                helped to form new kinds of social identity based around patterns of
                                consumption and leisure.
Image 7.2 A
                                    focus of cultural studies - blogging© iStock.com / Pekic
Cultural studies has often been concerned with focusing on those who
                                are marginalized and at the edges of modern culture, using sources
                                drawn from anthropology, textual analysis, social and cultural
                                history and psychoanalysis. Studies are centred on analysis of
                                texts, images, observational notes or transcripts of everyday
                                talk.



Cultural Study Example



On The Web 7.1
For examples of research in this area look at the
                                        International Journal of Cultural Studies at:

http://ics.sagepub.com/




Gender Studies
Gender studies explore the processes of constructing and
                                differentiating gender and gender inequalities, particularly in
                                areas such as literary theory, film studies, drama, anthropology,
                                sociology, psychology and psychoanalysis. Gender is not simply what
                                one is, but rather a set of meanings that sexes assume in particular
                                societies. Gender, then, is seen as a social construct
                                (Cranny-Francis et al., 2003). The school is, not surprisingly,
                                strongly influenced by feminist theory. Gender studies have been
                                associated with qualitative methods, largely because such methods
                                allow the voices of women to be 'heard', in contrast
                                to quantitative methods, which feminists have criticized for being
                                value-neutral and turning women into objects rather than the
                                subjects of research.



Gender Study Example




Activity 7.2
Taking each of the qualitative strategies above, what
                                    similarities can you identify among them? What important
                                    differences do you notice?




Approaches To Qualitative Design
Research design sits between a set of research questions and the data,
                            and shows how the research questions will be addressed (Punch, 2005). It
                            is strongly influenced by the epistemological stance adopted by the
                            researcher (recall Chapter 2). A further, and
                            connected, influence will occur if the researcher is an adherent of any
                            of the qualitative strategies discussed above. For example, adherents of
                            the ethnographic school will, obviously, adopt ethnographic design
                            methods, usually involving observation and participation. It is
                            important, however, to distinguish between qualitative data gathering
                            methods (such as observation or focus groups) and the holistic framework
                            of a research design. Data gathering methods are incorporated, and are
                            sometimes intrinsically associated, with a particular design.
                            Observation, for example, is often associated with ethnographic research
                            design. For other qualitative research designs, such as case studies or
                            grounded theory, a wide variety of data gathering instruments are
                            valid.
An important feature of qualitative design is that it is
                            'emergent'. Although a researcher may set off with some
                            provisional ideas about design, these may change during the research
                            process - often as a result of the analysis of data providing new
                            directions (Patton, 2002). Qualitative research design, then, should be
                            seen less as a linear, sequential pathway, but rather as a series of
                            iterations involving design, data collection, preliminary analysis and
                            re-design.

Top Tip 7.1
Student researchers who adopt a qualitative approach sometimes
                                confine themselves to describing a set of research questions, a
                                sampling strategy and one or more data gathering methods and leave
                                it at that. It is important, however, that these are positioned
                                within an overarching qualitative design strategy, discussed in this
                                section. An overarching design provides a framework through which
                                both the practical but also the theoretical and philosophical
                                traditions of the design can be presented.
According to Eisner (1991: 169) there is a 'paucity of
                                methodological prescriptions' as to how to formulate a
                                qualitative design. However, bringing together recommendations from
                                a range of scholars provides a quite detailed design outline, the
                                main elements of which are discussed next.




Determining The Focus Of The Inquiry
The purpose of making clear, unambiguous statements about the focus
                                of the study helps to establish a boundary for the research. Above
                                all, it makes clear what is 'in' and what is
                                'out' and the kinds of criteria for judging the
                                inclusion/exclusion criteria for new information. These boundaries,
                                however, are not fixed and may alter during the research process.
                                Miles et al. (2013) provide an approach which helps in formulating
                                this focus by constructing what they refer to as a conceptual
                                framework. This describes in narrative, and often in graphical
                                format, the key factors, constructs and variables being studied
                                - and the presumed relationship between them. Of course,
                                whether this relationship really exists is one of the elements of
                                the study.
Figure 7.1
                                    Conceptual framework for a research project on airline
                                    safety
Miles et al. (2013) conceive of this conceptual framework as a series
                                of intellectual 'bins' containing key events and
                                behaviours. Hence, Figure 7.1 shows a study of
                                airline safety and the hypothesized impact of various variables on
                                airline accident rates. The conceptual framework suggests that
                                airline safety is helped by improved pilot training and better
                                aircraft design (including safety features). But airline safety is
                                potentially negatively impacted by the threats of terrorism, greater
                                overcrowding in the skies, and the ways in which the researcher
                                believes that this is leading to reduced pilot autonomy as airline
                                managers exercise more control. The conceptual framework suggests
                                that this reduced autonomy also has a negative impact on aircraft
                                safety. Producing a conceptual framework forces the researcher to
                                specify what it is that is going to be studied and what is going to
                                be omitted, and hypothesized relationships between key variables.
                                This, of course, is not a hypothesis in the positivistic sense, but
                                a way of alerting the researcher to the possible relationships that
                                exist and which can be explored through the formulation of research
                                questions.

Activity 7.3
Examine Figure 7.1. Do you agree
                                    with its hypotheses? Draw an alternative conceptual framework
                                    adding new bins and relationships.



Formulating Research Questions
We saw in Chapter 1 that qualitative
                                research is often associated with inductive research designs. If the
                                research design is entirely inductive, there may be no formulation
                                of a priori questions for study. But it would be wrong to assume
                                that qualitative researchers always enter a field of study with no prior theoretical
                                assumptions or research questions. For highly ethnographic studies
                                this may be the case, but, often, qualitative researchers will wish
                                to impose at least some structure on the study in terms of the kinds
                                of questions that are being asked, the focus of the research and the
                                selection of field sites. The amount of structure required will
                                depend on factors such as the time available and how much is already
                                known about the phenomenon. Other decisions then have to be made
                                about what is going to be researched (including the units of
                                analysis and the sampling frame). Again using Figure
                                    7.1 as an illustration, we might ask about the impact of
                                pilot training and busy flight-paths on accident rates. Like the
                                conceptual framework, research questions allow the researcher to see
                                where the boundaries of the study lie. Of course, having established
                                the research questions, the researcher still has to remain open to
                                new and perhaps unexpected results (Flick, 2009). Research questions
                                can be orientated towards describing states or describing processes,
                                as Table 7.3 shows.



As Flick (2009) notes, the less clearly research questions are
                                formulated, the greater the chance that researchers will find
                                themselves confronted with mountains of data. As Figure
                                    7.2 shows, starting with a purely inductive approach (which
                                implies relatively little focus and no research questions) usually
                                leads to the accumulation of large volumes of data, which then have
                                to be analysed.
Figure 7.2
                                    Inductive and deductive approaches and research questions


Activity 7.4
Return to Table 3.3 in Chapter 3 and review the
                                    types of research question that can be formulated. Do any of
                                    these lend themselves more naturally to qualitative
                                    research?
There is a suggested answer at the end of the chapter.



Determining The Units Of Analysis
As in any research approach, in qualitative research decisions have
                                to be taken at the design stage on the unit of analysis to be used.
                                Typically, this might include: individuals, groups, organizations or
                                communities.
Using logistics and distribution as an example, the research might
                                focus on individuals (Warehouse managers, forklift drivers, lorry
                                drivers), groups (computer programmers and Web designers),
                                organizations (e.g., Amazon) and communities (those living near busy
                                distribution centres). Alternatively, the unit of analysis might be
                                the government's policy on, say, regulation and compliance in
                                the financial services sector. As Mason (2002) points out,
                                identifying the unit of analysis is important, especially when it
                                comes to analysing the data.
Using the logistics example, we might study the level of productivity
                                at the individual level. More likely, the data gathered might be at
                                factory/warehouse level to compare the efficiency of each logistics
                                plant. Or the logistical operations of companies might be compared,
                                the unit of analysis being at the organizational level.


Determining The Types Of Qualitative Data
In quantitative research the purpose is to collect quantitative data
                                in the form of numbers measuring occurrences and to fragment or
                                delimit phenomena into measurable categories. In qualitative
                                research, however, the types of data to be collected are much more
                                diverse. While, generally, most qualitative studies tend to depend
                                on the assimilation of data in the form of words (interview
                                transcripts, diary entries, observational notes), qualitative design
                                is quite flexible in terms of the variety of data types applicable.
                                    Table 7.4 provides a brief
                                summary of the types of data collected, their characteristics and
                                how they are collected, including an imaginary example for
                                illustration. It is also worth noting that, even though plans may
                                have been made at the outset to collect one type of data, these
                                plans may change at any time due to the evolving nature of
                                qualitative research. Gathering data using a variety of these types
                                will contribute to the construction of the kind of 'thick
                                descriptions' upon which qualitative research depends.
Image 7.3
                                    Determining the unit of analysis: the individual, the
                                    plant/factory or the organization© iStock.com / bugphai



Source: Adapted from Holliday,
                                    2002




Qualitative Data Types




Case Study 7.1

Examples Of Observational Data Gathering
                                        Techniques
A qualitative researcher is conducting a study on power
                                        relationships within a car plant. One data gathering process
                                        in the study is a two-day non-participation observation,
                                        involving the 'shadowing' of a factory
                                        supervisor. Table 7.4 provides an
                                        outline of the types of data collected, their
                                        characteristics, data collection methods and some examples
                                        from each data type. The Case Study illustrates the use of
                                        observational data gathering techniques, but also the use of
                                        a reflective diary, documentary evidence and video
                                        recordings.



Activity 7.5
Review Case Study 7.1. What does this tell you about the richness
                                    of data collected in a qualitative study? What does it tell you
                                    about the time and resources needed?



Deciding On A Sampling Strategy
We saw in Chapter 6 that experimental and
                                quasi-experimental research designs are concerned to use samples
                                that are as representative as possible of the population under study
                                - hence the use of random probability sampling. In
                                qualitative research this approach is usually impractical or
                                rejected by researchers on epistemological grounds. However, as Mays
                                (1995) argues, there are no a priori reasons for supposing that
                                qualitative research will never use random sampling. For example, in
                                a study investigating the quality of health and safety training in
                                sports centres, a random sample of such centres could be taken to
                                discover its prevalence and impact. Onwuegbuzie and Leech (2007)
                                refer to this as external statistical generalization and compare it
                                to external statistical sampling in quantitative research. If this
                                is the preferred route, then the authors recommend the use of simple
                                random sampling, stratified random sampling, cluster sampling
                                or systematic random sampling.
However, qualitative research usually works with purposive
                                non-probability samples because it seeks to obtain insights into
                                particular practices that exist within a specific location, context
                                and time. Informants are therefore identified because they are known
                                to enable the exploration of a particular behaviour or
                                characteristic relevant to the research. Purposive sampling
seeks to identify
                                information-rich cases which can then be studied in depth (Patton,
                                2002). Qualitative research, then, often works with small samples of
                                people, cases or phenomena nested in particular contexts. Again, in
                                contrast to more quantitative approaches, samples may not always be
                                pre-planned in advance, but may evolve once fieldwork has
                                begun. So an initial choice of informants may lead to a decision to
                                select a more contrasting set of deviant subjects (cases) as a
                                comparison (Lincoln and Guba, 1994).
Very often it is not a case of selecting between the various
                                approaches but combining some of them into multiple case sampling.
                                By using a number of cases that yield similar findings we can show
                                replication (see Figure 11.4 in Chapter 11) hence strengthening
                                claims for the validity of findings and the grounds for their
                                generalizability. What is needed, however, is an explicit sampling
                                frame where, between them, the cases cover the various issues and
                                variables detailed in the study's research questions. Miles
                                et al. (2013) advise that the best strategy is to initially target
                                those cases that are most likely to yield the richest data, leaving
                                more peripheral cases until later. But peripheral sampling is still
                                important because it may often yield negative or exceptional cases
                                (those that contradict the initial case findings or the findings of
                                previous empirical studies). Similarly, Lincoln and Guba (1994)
                                recommend maximum variation sampling as a way of identifying common
                                themes that cut across samples that vary when measured across key
                                criteria. More can be found on sample selection in qualitative
                                research in Chapter 9 on sampling
                                strategies, particularly in the section on non-probability
                                sampling.
An important but often neglected consideration in qualitative
                                sampling is selecting the size of the sample. Onwuegbuzie and Leech
                                (2007) suggest that sample sizes in qualitative research should not
                                be so large that it becomes difficult to extract thick, rich data.
                                At the same time, the sample should not be too small so that it
                                becomes difficult to achieve data saturation (Flick, 2009),
                                theoretical saturation (Strauss and Corbin, 1990) or information
                                redundancy (Lincoln and Guba, 1994). As will be suggested in Chapter 11, in case study
                                research Eisenhardt (1989) suggests that between 4 and 10 cases
                                usually works well.


Plan Data Analysis Processes
The data analysis processes should be planned for at the design
                                stage, not as an afterthought just before the data analysis process
                                is due to start. Approaches to the analysis of qualitative data are
                                discussed in Chapter 25.

Top Tip 7.2
One of the classic mistakes made by novice qualitative
                                    researchers is to think about approaches to data analysis far
                                    too late. By knowing in advance what analytical approach you are
                                    going to take, you will also know how this approach influences
                                    your approach to sampling and other issues. For example, are
                                    your analytical codes going to be a priori codes (from the
                                    literature - in which case you will influence your choice
                                    of samples) or in vivo (emerging from the data), or a mixture of
                                    both?



Top Tip: Using Qualitative
                                            Methods






The Role Of The Researcher
As we saw in Chapter 6, in quantitative research
                            the role of the researcher is to try to maintain objectivity and
                            detachment from the research process. In qualitative research the researcher's role is
                            very different. According to Glaser and Strauss (1967) and Strauss and
                            Corbin (1990), researchers need to adopt a stance of
                                'theoretical sensitivity', which means being
                            'insightful', demonstrating the capacity to understand and
                            the ability to differentiate between what is important and what is not.
                            They must be able to perceive of situations holistically and be
                            responsive to environmental cues in the field. For example, they need to
                            be sensitive to situations where they risk biasing the responses of
                            people they are interviewing. In addition, they usually adopt a
                            reflexive stance, reflecting on the subtle ways in which bias might
                            creep into their research practice through the influence of their
                            personal background and belief systems.


Using The Literature In Qualitative Research
We saw, briefly, in Chapter 3 that qualitative research
                            differs from quantitative research in its approach to positioning the
                            literature review. While in quantitative studies the literature review
                            normally comes at the beginning of the research process, in qualitative
                            research the issue of where to position the literature is less
                            pre-determined. This issue has been heavily influenced by Glaser and
                            Strauss (1967) who, in their description of grounded theory, argued that
                            research should start with data collection without any reference to the
                            literature, which should come later. Strauss later modified this
                            position, but some qualitative researchers have stubbornly retained this
                            approach. Flick (2009) suggests that, in qualitative research, there are
                            several types of literature that play a part in the development of a
                            qualitative study, namely:
the theoretical literaturethe literature from empirical studiesthe methodological literature on how the study is to be
                                    conducted.

The Theoretical Literature
The purpose of exploring the theoretical literature around a research
                                topic is to gain an insight and contextual knowledge about the
                                subject in order to raise questions such as:
What is already known about the subject?Which theories or models are accepted or influential?Which concepts or theories are disputed?What can be said critically about what is already
                                        known?What are the main theoretical or methodological debates in
                                        the field?What new research is worth doing?
The theoretical literature, then, provides a detailed description and
                                critical analysis of the current state of knowledge.


The Empirical Literature
Previous empirical studies in the field illustrate what has been
                                studied and help in providing concrete evidence in support of, or in
                                opposition to, an argument. They also provide evidence on the kinds of
                                methodological approaches or traditions used in studying the field.
                                A critical evaluation of these studies might suggest the adoption of
                                similar methodological approaches, or, indeed, the need to adopt
                                alternative ones. Empirical studies might also highlight
                                contradictory findings or ambiguities that are worthy of further
                                research. Both the empirical and theoretical literature can be used
                                to identify current gaps in knowledge, and therefore in the
                                formulation of research questions.


The Methodological Literature
Reviewing the methodological literature allows the researcher to
                                identify the kinds of methodological approaches that have,
                                typically, been used to address the subject they are interested in.
                                This includes issues of qualitative research design and also the
                                choices made for approaches to qualitative data analysis. Having
                                reviewed the methodological literature it will also be necessary to
                                study qualitative research methods textbooks and academic articles
                                in order to gain a deeper understanding of the kinds of issues
                                involved (Silverman, 2000).

Top Tip 7.3
Inexperienced researchers often believe that conducting a
                                    literature review on qualitative methodology means developing an
                                    unfocused discourse on qualitative methods in general. Nothing
                                    could be further from the truth. As this chapter suggests,
                                    qualitative methods comprise a wide and diverse set of
                                    approaches. So, you should try to give some focus to the
                                    qualitative methodology you are actually using. For example, if
                                    using grounded theory, do not waste time telling the reader
                                    about the wonders of content or framework analysis. Describe,
                                    briefly, the history of grounded theory, some of the changes in
                                    the views of its originators and discuss the grounded theory
                                    stages in data collection and analysis (for details of grounded
                                    theory analysis see Chapter 25). Also, take a look at the work of
                                    experienced researchers and how they have conducted a study
                                    using the relevant qualitative method. For an example of
                                    grounded theory see Ellis and Chen (2013) in the Journal
                                    Resources section, below.




Collecting Qualitative Data
Qualitative data emerge from a wide spectrum of sources. One of the most
                            common is field studies where the researcher enters a selected setting
                            to gather data, often through the use of observations or interviews.
                            While observation is likely to elicit qualitative data (such as field
                                notes and analysis), interviews may be used to collect both
                            qualitative and quantitative information. Similarly, case studies might
                            involve the use of research instruments such as questionnaires,
                            interview schedules and observations, all of which might yield data that
                            is qualitative in nature.

Conducting Interviews
Qualitative interviews can be used as either the main instrument of
                                data collection, or in conjunction with observation, document
                                analysis or some other type of data gathering technique. Qualitative interviews
                                utilize open-ended questions using either informal, conversational
                                interviews, semi-structured interviews (where additional probing
                                questions can be used) or standardized interviews, where they are
                                not. Chapter 15 discusses approaches
                                to interviewing in more detail.



Interview Case Study




Observations
Observations are one of the prime data collection methods for
                                naturalistic or fieldwork settings. Observational data is primarily
                                descriptive of settings, people, events and the meanings that
                                participants ascribe to them. As we will see in Chapter
                                    16, observation may be conducted with the knowledge of those
                                being observed (overt) or without their knowledge (covert).
                                Researchers may also remain detached from the field setting as a
                                non-participant or become a member of a group or setting.
Field notes remain one of the mainstays of qualitative data
                                collection methods through observations. Accurate, detailed and
                                extensive field notes are difficult to write, especially when the
                                researcher is busy observing in the field (and particularly if that
                                research has to be covert).

Top Tip 7.4
It is always important that field notes are written up on the
                                    same day as the observation and not after this point. Field
                                    notes can be supplemented by diaries written by researchers, and
                                    also by participants, so that triangulation can be performed.
                                    Photographs, drawings, maps and other visual material can also
                                    be added (see next section). Remember,
                                    that under ethical protocols, field notes, just like all data,
                                    should be stored safely.



Field Note Reminders





Lofland and Lofland (1995) recommend that if field notes are
                                supplemented by tape recordings, these should be transcribed as
                                quickly as possible, and that at least as much time should be spent
                                studying and analysing the materials as spent in the interview
                                itself. Flick (2009) also recommends the use of documentation sheets
                                that provide useful summary information on the context within which
                                the data were collected (see Figure
                                    7.3). Document sheets allow for an overview of the data and
                                can provide a guide as to which files and transcripts to consult at
                                the analysis stage.


Using Photographs And Other Sources
In addition to text, photographs or other visual data such as video
                                or film recordings are also sources of qualitative data. Photographs
                                in particular have a long history in ethnography and anthropology
                                (Flick, 2009). Photographs allow the detailed recording of facts,
                                including the presentation of lifestyles and living and working
                                conditions. They can also capture processes that are too rapid for
                                the human eye. Sometimes, the subjects of research can be encouraged
                                to take on the role of the photographer, documenting either a
                                subject of their choice, or a theme that the researcher wants them
                                to record. If desired, these photographs can subsequently be used to
                                stimulate an interview or encourage a participant to produce a
                                narrative to accompany and expand upon the photographic evidence.
                                This can be seen as a concretization of the focused interview
                                (Flick, 2009). But do photographs tell the truth? Of course, what
                                the camera focuses on, and what it leaves out, is selective. Visual
                                research methods are discussed in more detail in Chapter
                                    20.



Using Photographs


Figure 7.3
                                    Example of document sheet
There may also be problems of reactivity, with the subjects
                                altering their behaviour in the presence of the photographer (note
                                the natural versus the staged poses in the photographs above).
                                Hence, there are always dangers of bias, and questions about the
                                extent to which photographs help in the social construction of
                                reality. It may be best to use visual data alongside other sources
                                such as observational and interview data and documents.


Using Unobtrusive Data
As we shall see in Chapter 19 organizations
                                contain a rich array of unobtrusive data in the form of documents
                                such as company reports, business plans, written statements by
                                members of staff, accounts and contracts. Most organizations also
                                have dedicated websites that present a 'public' image
                                to the world. Analysis of such a site may reveal not only the
                                organization's perception of itself and the image it wants to
                                present, but also what it does not wish to reveal. The
                                organization's intranet site and evidence from email
                                interactions may also prove of interest (if accessible as part of a
                                study).
Atkinson and Coffey (2004) warn that it is not only the content of
                                documents that should be of concern to researchers, but also the way
                                in which they are produced, circulated, read, stored and used for a
                                variety of purposes. This means that they are not necessarily a
                                description of 'reality' nor are they necessarily
                                'transparent representations of organizational routines,
                                decision making processes or professional diagnoses'
                                (Atkinson and Coffey, 2004: 47). Although they should be treated
                                seriously, documents should not be taken as factual evidence of what
                                they report. Rather, they should be examined for their place within
                                the organizational setting, and the cultural values attached to
                                them. But conversely, the temptation should be avoided to use only
                                observational or oral data as the primary source and downgrade
                                documentary evidence to a validating role. Atkinson and Coffey
                                (2004) urge that documents should be regarded as valid sources in
                                their own right.
Image 7.4
                                    Example of natural versus staged photograph© iStock.com / kali9© iStock.com / shironosov


Keeping A Research Diary
Given that, particularly in progressive qualitative research, the
                                researcher is considered a valid part of the research setting, then
                                the ideas, feelings and perceptions of the researcher become part of
                                the data. But there is a danger in qualitative research that the
                                reader is presented with what Silverman (2000: 193) calls a
                                'seamless web' of ideas that conceals the
                                researcher's complex experience of the research process
                                including false leads, inspirational hunches, triumphs and
                                disappointments. Keeping a diary maintains a proper record of the
                                researcher's thinking and helps to develop a reflexive stance
                                (Miles et al., 2013). For example, there is a tendency in
                                qualitative research to present the 'voices' of
                                respondents as though these voices speak on their own. Yet it is the
                                researcher who makes choices about how to interpret these voices and
                                which quotations to use as evidence (Mauthner and Doucet, 2003).
Hence, the kinds of issues noted in a research diary could
                                include:
The processes involved in approaching the field and making
                                        contact (in the terms often used by participatory action
                                        research - 'getting in').Experiences (positive and negative) in getting access to
                                        respondents and in using data gathering instruments.Details of literature sources read (and ordered).Reflections on the interpretation and presentation of
                                        results, including important changes in direction.
As Silverman (2000) points out, there is no single correct method for
                                keeping a diary. What is important is that researchers are
                                meticulous in record keeping and reflective about their data.




Ethics And Qualitative Research
As we saw in Chapter 4, all researchers need to
                            take into account ethical principles when conducting their research.
                            Ethics, however, can pose a particular problem for qualitative
                            researchers who often work so closely and for longer periods of time
                            with research participants, and deal with the most sensitive and
                            intimate matters in people's lives (Punch, 2005). Indeed, with
                            some qualitative research methods such as, say, ethnography using
                                participant observation, the researcher may develop close
                            relationships with those they are studying. This has important
                            implications for issues such as respecting the privacy of participants
                            and avoiding deception (especially if the observation is covert).
                            Furthermore, as we have seen earlier, the flexibility of qualitative
                            research design means that questions and focus may change during the
                            research process. Since this may mean that the samples used and the
                            kinds of question asked may have to change, this implies that, in
                            qualitative studies, ethical consent may have to be renegotiated on an
                            ongoing basis. For example, once initial findings are presented, new
                            research questions may emerge (and even new samples) which might raise
                            new ethical issues or challenges.
Mason (2002) agrees that, for qualitative research, the issue of informed
                            consent needs to be revisited regularly. Some research methods, for
                            example interviews, can promote a high degree of trust among research
                            subjects, which imposes a special responsibility on researchers to avoid
                            reneging on commitments, acting deceitfully or producing explanations
                            that in some way cause harm to the interests of those subjects. For
                            example, the use of visual data such as photographs can make
                            confidentiality impossible to maintain. Table 7.5
                            provides a brief checklist of issues qualitative researchers would do
                            well to reflect on during the research process.
According to Bell and Bryman (2007), many ethical frameworks are based
                            upon a model of research processes that is insensitive to the kinds of
                            open-ended research strategies associated with qualitative methods.
                            Lincoln and Tierney (2004: 222), for example, note that some
                            institutional review boards (IRBs) have rejected qualitative research
                            projects on the grounds that they are 'unscientific' and
                            incapable of generalization - a judgement based upon a
                            'realist' ontology and 'objectivist'
                            epistemology that underpins conventional science (Lincoln and Guba,
                            1989). One result is a series of endless revisions as IRBs seek to make
                            such projects appear more conventional.
One approach to qualitative research, ethnography, has difficulties in
                            meeting ethical protocols because the research questions can rarely be
                            specified in advance and it can be difficult to specify when projects
                            start and when they end (Bosk, 2004). Similarly, grounded theory
                            promotes an open-ended approach that allows new lines of enquiry to
                            emerge during the research process, making it difficult to determine an
                            exact set of research questions in advance of the project. In these
                            circumstances, the best approach is probably to recognize that informed
                            consent is a fluid process requiring constant monitoring rather than a
                            pre-research agreement that precludes further thought.


Source: Adapted from Mason, 2002



Activity 7.6
Given the fluid nature of qualitative research, what kinds of
                                processes should researchers put in place to ensure that ethical
                                principles are followed throughout the project? For example, how
                                often should ethical protocols be reviewed?



Ensuring Rigour In Qualitative Research
One of the criticisms levelled at qualitative research is that it is
                            'unscientific', anecdotal and based upon subjective
                            impressions. It is also claimed that qualitative research lacks
                            reproducibility - the research is so based in or confined to one
                            context that it lacks generalizability. In addition, it is argued
                            that the research is so personal to the researcher that another
                            researcher might use the same data to come to radically different
                            conclusions (Mays, 1995). These contentions are countered by qualitative
                            researchers who seek to show, through a range of strategies, how
                            qualitative research can, indeed, demonstrate rigour. We will look at
                            how rigour is preserved in the analysis of qualitative data in Chapter 25, confining ourselves
                            here largely to the issue of rigour in qualitative design and data
                            collection.
In discussing the issue of quality in qualitative research, some
                            commentators resist the temptation to even address such matters as
                            validity and reliability, because, they argue, these concepts were
                            originally developed in a quantitative tradition and are rooted in a
                            positivist paradigm (Bryman, 1988; Golafshani, 2003). Lincoln (1985)
                            also asserts that naturalistic researchers, for example, tend anyway to
                            be more modest and reluctant about making generalizations from their
                            findings. Issues of external validity, then, are not high on their
                            agendas. However, as we shall see, even some of the most enthusiastic
                            adherents to the qualitative approach see the need to address validity
                            and reliability as inescapable, although some do suggest additional
                            quality criteria, some of which they see as having more importance.

Designing For Validity In Qualitative Research
Validity has traditionally been a concept used in quantitative
                                research (Campbell and Stanley, 1963). The word, however, has been
                                adopted in qualitative research, resulting in 17 different terms
                                associated with it, with no generally agreed definition (Dellinger
                                and Leech, 2007). Despite this caution, we will explore validity in
                                qualitative research from two perspectives - internal
                                validity and external validity.

Internal Validity
The issue of internal validity revolves around the question of
                                    how far the constructions of the researcher are grounded in the
                                    constructions of those being researched (Flick, 2009). Hall and
                                    Callery (2001) criticize grounded theory in particular for
                                    assuming that the data collected reflect reality, and are
                                    independent of, and not influenced by, the subjective
                                    interpretations of researchers. What is needed, they argue, is
                                    for researchers to adopt a reflexive stance, through which they critically
                                    reflect on their influence on the research process.
                                    Self-reflective criticality is strengthened through repetitive
                                    checks of the researcher's interpretations (Whittemore et
                                    al., 2001). Of course, another approach is to involve those
                                    being researched in checking the data for accuracy and in the
                                    analysis for the faithfulness of interpretation.
Data can be fabricated, discounted or misinterpreted. One way of
                                    avoiding such problems is where research can be validated
                                    through replication, but as Dey (1993) cautions, qualitative
                                    research is notoriously difficult to replicate. In place of
                                    external validation, 'internal' replication may be
                                    adopted, whereby other researchers can inspect the procedures
                                    through which the research has been conducted. This is much
                                    easier, of course, where two researchers collaborate on the same
                                    project. Another approach might be to split the data and analyse
                                    them in two stages to see if the results are similar.
Establishing principles for validity is all very well, but how do
                                    researchers plan to achieve them in practice?


External Validity
One important aspect of external validity is the extent to which
                                    it is possible to generalize from the data to other cases or
                                    situations. Generalizations can be defined as assertions of
                                    enduring value that are context-free (Lincoln and Guba, 1994).
                                    Since sampling in qualitative research tends to be purposive
                                    rather than random, and data gathered from a limited number of
                                    cases (sometimes one), can we generalize? Lincoln and Guba
                                    (1994) distinguish between two kinds of generalization. The
                                    first is nomothetic, based upon a rationalistic, law-like
                                    stance, as in the positivist paradigm. The second they term
                                    'naturalistic generalization', which is a more
                                    intuitive, ideographic, but none the less an empirical approach
                                    based upon personal, direct experience. The authors then dismiss
                                    the notion of nomothetic generalizations that are truly
                                    universal to all times and situations. Local conditions, they
                                    contend, make it impossible to generalize. 'If there is a
                                    "true" generalization, it is that there can be no
                                    generalization' (Lincoln and Guba, 1994: 124). At best,
                                    the results from individual cases allow us to build working
                                    hypotheses that can be tested in subsequent cases. As Miles et
                                    al. (2013) point out, through the use of multiple case studies,
                                    attempts are made to match on the basis of underlying theories.
                                    As more similar or contrasting cases are used, we can justify,
                                    through replication, the stability of the findings. Even then,
                                    as Dey (1993) asserts, as a basis for generalization,
                                    qualitative analysis is more likely to be suggestive than
                                    conclusive. At best, rather than generalize, we can see if the
                                    findings from Context A can be transferred to Context B.
If qualitative researchers decide that generalizing is essential,
                                    then this entails treating it as an integral element of the
                                    research design. In particular, it means taking extra care over
                                    sample selection (of both people and sites). Efforts then need
                                    to be made to demonstrate the similarities between the sample
                                    and the target population or research sites to which
                                    generalization is to be made. Hence, if generalization is an aim
                                    of the research, care with sample selection has to be built into
                                    the research design, and not considered as an afterthought.
                                    Payne and Williams (2005) suggest that in attempting to
                                    formulate generalizations, qualitative researchers will achieve
                                    more plausibility if they are:
Cautious, moderating the range of generalizing
                                            conclusions. Being too ambitious in conclusions merely
                                            undermines the credibility of otherwise competent
                                            research. If the sample is specialized in some way, be
                                            clear that the results may only be applicable to a
                                            limited type of site or categories of person -
                                            and say what they are.Careful in recognizing the limitations of time periods.
                                            So, claims are more believable if made for current
                                            conditions than about some period in the future.Meticulous in demonstrating clear linkages between
                                            generalizing conclusions and the specific data that
                                            provide its foundation.Honest and transparent about findings from sub-groups,
                                            the views or behaviours of which differ or are similar
                                            to those of the population being reported.Modest by making claims for basic patterns or
                                            tendencies, so that other studies may find similar but
                                            not identical findings.Diligent in reporting alternative explanations or the
                                            constraints on generalizations. The constraints on
                                            generalizations need to become a standard element of the
                                            analysis.

Case Study 7.2

The Limits Of Generalization
A group of researchers are conducting an observational
                                            study of an international supermarket chain based in the
                                            UK, France and Germany. To what extent should they
                                            attempt to generalize their findings to other
                                            supermarkets in Europe? They decide that this will
                                            depend on the features being explored. As far as
                                            products or brands are concerned, generalization is
                                            quite feasible because many products and brands are sold
                                            all over Europe. Similarly, features such as management
                                            structures may be quite similar across many countries,
                                            particularly in Western Europe. However, the researchers
                                            decide that they would be unwise to generalize to
                                            Eastern European supermarkets, because forms of
                                            management structure and culture are still emerging from
                                            a post-communist society and still tend to be
                                            hierarchical. The ability to generalize, then, is
                                            influenced by arguments about the similarities or
                                            otherwise between the research (sending) site and sites
                                            to which generalizations are being made (receiving
                                            site).



Top Tip 7.5
Decide at the research planning stage on your attitude
                                        towards generalization. If rejecting the necessity of
                                        generalizing, explore the qualitative research methods
                                        literature for what alternative measures of rigour you may
                                        use to justify the quality of your research. If
                                        generalizing, follow the advice of Payne and Williams (2005)
                                        to acknowledge the modesty of your findings.




Designing For Reliability In Qualitative Research
Reliability refers to the stability of findings. A reliable
                                observation, for example, is one that could have been made by any
                                similarly situated observer (Denzin, 1989). For most qualitative
                                approaches, reliability is improved, if not guaranteed, by
                                triangulation, gathering information, for example, from multiple
                                sources or by using multiple data gathering tools. Denzin (1989)
                                offers four kinds of triangulation:
Data triangulation - where data are gathered
                                        using multiple sampling strategies. This can include: time
                                        triangulation, when data are collected on the same
                                        phenomenon over a period of time; space triangulation, when
                                        data are collected from multiple sites; and person
                                        triangulation, where data are collected at three levels in
                                        an organization - for example, individuals, groups
                                        and departments.Investigator triangulation - using more than
                                        one observer in field situations so that observer bias can
                                        be reduced (and inter-judge reliability improved). Thus, a
                                        training programme would teach observers to keep an
                                        'open mind' and not to become obsessed with
                                        their hypothesis (if they start with one). They should not
                                        jump towards 'solutions' to a problem as this
                                        will tend to make them ignore facts that do not confirm
                                        their expectations. In making a study, they are trained to
                                        notice all aspects of a situation and to deliberately search
                                        for unexpected facts, and to seek alternative
                                        interpretations. The data will then be checked by other
                                        trained colleagues (and even informants) who will, if
                                        possible, repeat the observation to see if they get the same
                                        results.Multiple triangulation - in which a
                                        combination of multiple methods, data types, observers and
                                        theories are combined in the same investigation. While it is
                                        often a practical difficulty to achieve a combination of all
                                        of these, it is more common to at least use multiple data
                                        levels and methods.Methodological triangulation - of which there
                                        are two kinds: within-method, where the researcher employs
                                        varieties of data gathering techniques within the same
                                        method; and between-method, where a variety of different
                                        methods are used - for example, quantitative data
                                        from a survey, with qualitative data from observations (see
                                            Chapter 8 on using
                                        mixed methods).
It should be noted, however, that the significance of reliability is
                                not universally accepted. Glaser (1992), for example, asserts that
                                verification has no place in grounded theory, the task of which is
                                to generate hypotheses, not to test them. This is in sharp contrast
                                to the views of Strauss and Corbin (1994), who suggest that within
                                the data collection and analysis process there is an in-built
                                mandate to strive towards the verification of any resulting
                                hypotheses. For interview data, reliability can be increased through
                                the training of interviewers and through the use of standardized
                                interview schedules. For observations, researchers also need to be
                                trained before they enter the field. Reliability can also be
                                improved through the use of pre-designed observation schedules.


Other Approaches To Rigour
Some researchers, particularly those from the naturalistic tradition,
                                argue that trustworthiness is more important than concerns
                                over the validity or reliability checks that have just been
                                outlined. Skrtic (1985), for example, suggests that this is
                                addressed through a focus on:
Transferability, with purposive sampling to illustrate
                                        pertinent issues and factors when comparing two contexts for
                                        similarity, and thick descriptions to provide evidence for
                                        making judgements about similarities between cases.Dependability, through the use of audit trails through the
                                        data.Confirmability, with the audit showing the connections
                                        between data and the researcher's
                                        interpretations.Credibility, the use of persistent observations;
                                        triangulation (of data, methods, theories and
                                        investigations); and member checks (where data and
                                        interpretations are tested with research participants).
Lincoln and Guba (1994) argue that credibility can be strengthened
                                through the researcher making a conscious effort to establish
                                confidence in the accuracy of interpretation, and the fit between
                                description and explanation.
To these we can add authenticity, which relates analysis and
                                interpretation to the meanings and experiences that are lived and
                                perceived by the subjects of the research. This means the research
                                being aware of the multiple voices contained within the data, and
                                the subtle, sometimes conflicting realities within it. Do the
                                interpretations ring true? Have rival explanations been considered?
                                Davies and Dodd (2002) also suggest that just as important are
                                practices that are honest, open, empathetic, sensitive, respectful
                                and engaging. Perhaps these concepts should also be seen as
                                essential ingredients of research quality. Table
                                    7.6 offers a brief comparison of criteria used by
                                quantitative and qualitative approaches, and the measures suggested
                                by Lincoln and Guba (1994) for developing the trustworthiness of
                                qualitative data.



Source: Adapted from Hoepfl,
                                    1997 and Lincoln and Guba, 1994




Trustworthiness


However, as Johnson and Harris (2002) comment, one problem with
                                qualitative research is that a standard practice for achieving
                                validity, reliability or any other quality indicator has yet to be
                                established. This is because of the variable nature of qualitative
                                research and the relative novelty of many research studies.



Summary
Qualitative research has advantages over quantitative research
                                    in that researchers are closer to the fields or settings they
                                    are trying to research - it is highly contextual.Qualitative research is not built upon a unified theory or
                                    methodological approach - hence its variety and
                                    flexibility.In qualitative research, data analysis does not necessarily
                                    follow data gathering - there can be a number of
                                    iterations between the two.Even though there are various schools of qualitative research
                                    including grounded theory, ethnomethodology, narrative analysis
                                    and ethnography, they all have one element in common -
                                    generally, an inductive approach (although deduction or prior
                                    questions cannot be ruled out).Methods of collecting qualitative data include interview
                                    transcripts, field notes from observations, photographs, video
                                    and unobtrusive data.Decisions on whether to attempt generalization need to be built
                                    into the research design, paying particular attention to
                                    sampling strategies.Qualitative approaches to achieving rigour include building
                                    trustworthiness, authenticity, credibility, transferability,
                                    dependability and confirmability.


Review Questions
The wide number of approaches to qualitative research
                                        designs constitutes one of its strengths and its weaknesses.
                                        Discuss.Should qualitative research designs attempt to address the
                                        issues of validity and reliability? Present arguments both
                                        for and against.One of the most fundamental differences between qualitative
                                        and quantitative research designs is the position of the
                                        researcher. To what extent do you agree or disagree with
                                        this statement?Ethical dilemmas occur more frequently and deeply in
                                        qualitative than in quantitative research because in the
                                        former, the researcher is closer to those being researched.
                                        Discuss.



Further Reading
Eriksson, P. and Kovalainen, A. (2016) Qualitative Methods in Business
                                Research, 2nd edn. London: Sage. Explores the challenges of
                            working with qualitative data and uses applied case studies to
                            illustrate methodologies and methods.
Denzin, N.K. and Lincoln, Y.S. (2011) The Sage Handbook of Qualitative
                                Research, 4th edn. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage. Includes 14 topics
                            not touched by previous editions, including institutional review boards,
                            critical and performance ethnography, narrative enquiry and strategies
                            of online research. Previous authors have all updated their
                            chapters.
Flick, U. (2009) An Introduction to Qualitative Research, 4th edn.
                            London: Sage. Provides a systematic framework for doing qualitative
                            research, as well as a guide to research design. Each chapter concludes
                            with a helpful overview.
Maxwell, J.A. (2013) Qualitative Research Design: An Interactive
                                Approach. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage. Presents what the author
                            describes as an interactive model, showing that research questions are
                            at the centre of research design, linked to goals that are grounded in
                            theoretical models. The operational side of the model includes methods
                            and checks for validity.


Journal Resources
Ellis, L.M and Chen, E.C. (2013) 'Negotiating identity development
                            among undocumented immigrant college students: A grounded theory
                            study', Journal of Counseling Psychology, 60(2):
                            251-264. Provides an example of how grounded theory should be
                            conducted.
Kaczynski, D., Salmon, M. and Smith, T. (2014) 'Qualitative
                            research in finance', Australian Journal of Management,
                            39(1): 127-135. Presents some of the benefits of conducting
                            qualitative research within a subject with strong quantitative
                            traditions.
Simosi, M. (2013) 'Trajectories of organizational commitment: A
                            qualitative study in a Greek public sector organization',
                                International Journal of Cross Cultural Management, 13(1):
                            111-130. Demonstrates how to conduct a qualitative study showing
                            connections between the literature and research questions and subsequent
                            qualitative research design.
Tomkins, L. and Eatough, V. (2010) 'Towards an integrative
                            reflexivity in organisational research', Qualitative Research
                                in Organizations and Management: An International Journal, 5(2):
                            162-181. Offers an alternative model of reflexivity and some
                            practical guidelines of value to researchers working across a range of
                            different qualitative methodologies.



Suggested Answer For Activity 7.4




Don't forget to visit the companion website at https://study.sagepub.com/grayresearchbusiness for the
                                following resources which support this chapter:

















8 Business Research Design: Mixed
                        Methods

Chapter Introduction

Chapter Outline
Differences between quantitative and qualitative
                                        researchWhat do we mean by mixed methods research?The benefits of mixed methods designsLooking at mixed methods research criticallyTypes of mixed methods design


Keywords
Epistemological positionsBetween-methods triangulationSequential research designsConcurrent research designs



Icon Key







Author Video







Chapter Objectives
After reading this chapter you will be able to:
Distinguish between quantitative, qualitative and mixed
                                        research designs.Identify when quantitative and qualitative approaches can
                                        complement each other.Select from a range of mixed methods designs.Explain when mixed methods designs may not be
                                        appropriate.



The social and behavioural sciences have been dominated by positivist
                            schools of thought on the one hand and interpretivists on the other,
                            generating a 'great divide' between what have become often
                            hostile, antagonistic camps. One negative result of this has been that
                            academics and researchers have often felt it necessary to pledge their
                            allegiance to one camp or another, and to accept the notion that the
                            quantitative and qualitative research approaches are mutually
                            incompatible. The purpose of this chapter, however, is to illustrate how
                            two, seemingly opposite approaches to research can in fact support and
                            complement each other. But since this statement is not without
                            controversy some of the arguments against the mixing of research methods
                            will also be explored.



Mixed Methods Design


Mixed method designs are those that include at least one quantitative
                            method and one qualitative, where neither type of method is inherently
                            linked to any particular inquiry paradigm (Greene et al., 1989). This
                            implies, for example, that an ethnographic study that incorporates not
                            only qualitative data from participant observation (the classic
                            ethnographic data gathering method), but also quantitative data from a
                            survey would be considered inappropriate. This is because ethnographers
                            would deem the use of quantitative data as incompatible with the
                            epistemology of ethnography. The quantitative and qualitative approaches
                            typically embrace incompatible assumptions about the nature of the
                            world. However, as we shall see later in this chapter, this hard divide
                            between the two has broken down in recent years, some researchers at
                            least being prepared to combine methods without any qualms about mixing
                            epistemologies. 'No longer do we ask, "Is this the right
                            method?" Instead, we ask, "What is the quality of knowing
                            within the practice of this person or community?"' (Reason
                            and Torbert, 2001: 7). Some researchers are now referring to mixed
                            methods as a 'third methodological movement' with
                            quantitative methods being seen as the first movement and qualitative
                            the second (Tashakkori and Teddlie, 2009: ix).


Differences Between Quantitative And Qualitative
                            Research
Before exploring approaches to mixed methods research, it is useful to
                            describe some of the well-known arguments about the differences between
                            quantitative and qualitative methods - if only to show why so
                            many researchers do not subscribe to mixed methods research. Table 8.1 illustrates a number of
                            areas in which quantitative and qualitative methods differ,
                            demonstrating a divide both in terms of epistemology and use of methods.
                            These important differences are discussed below.



Source: Adapted from Bryman,
                                1999


Epistemological Positions
In terms of the scale of the quantitative and qualitative
                                'divide', it is the epistemological arguments that are
                                the most serious, seeing the two approaches as philosophically
                                irreconcilable. Indeed, those who hold to epistemological
                                distinctiveness regard the two approaches as constituting different
                                paradigms. It is argued, for example, that quantitative research
                                emanates from an objectivist position which holds that reality
                                exists independently of the researcher - the truth is
                                'out there'. In contrast, qualitative research is more
                                closely linked to a constructivist paradigm, which sees truth and
                                meaning as constructed and interpreted by individuals. However, as
                                we saw in Chapter 2 (and later in Figure 8.1), pragmatism views
                                the mixing of epistemological positions as sometimes not only
                                legitimate but necessary.


Relationship Between Researcher And Subjects
Another difference is the way in which quantitative and qualitative
                                methods demonstrate different approaches to the relationship between
                                researchers and their study. In quantitative research, for example,
                                researchers aim to keep themselves at a distance from those they are
                                researching. This distance could be either emotional (maintaining
                                detachment from the issues being researched) or physical (using data
                                gathering tools which do not require direct contact with
                                respondents, or both). In large projects using structured
                                interviews, for example, contact with respondents may be through the
                                use of hired interviewers rather than with the researcher, an
                                approach often seen in market research where the emphasis is on
                                using large samples. Here there is often an emphasis on training the
                                interviewers so as to avoid the manipulation of responses.
                                Qualitative research, however, usually involves direct contact
                                between researcher and those they are researching, sometimes for
                                long periods of time. Indeed, with some forms of observation, the
                                researcher may become a member of the social group or community
                                she/he is researching.
Quantitative research sees social reality as static, typically
                                exploring the relationship between variables over a restricted time
                                period. Qualitative researchers argue that quantitative researchers
                                rarely examine the processes that link these variables and the flow
                                of events in which they
                                are located. In contrast, qualitative researchers argue that they
                                are better positioned to examine the linkages between events and
                                activities, especially since, as researchers, they are more
                                personally immersed in these events.


Research Focus
In line with an objectivist philosophical position, quantitative
                                research concentrates on the gathering of 'facts', in
                                order that 'truth claims' can be established. Such
                                facts are less likely to be tainted by the biases of the researcher
                                if he or she maintains a distance from those they are studying (see
                                previous section). Qualitative researchers, however, contend that
                                truth and meaning do not exist in some external world, but are
                                constructed through people's interactions with the world.
                                Hence, for the same phenomenon, two people could construct two quite
                                different meanings. For example, taking the concept 'fair
                                pay' you would expect a chief executive and a security guard
                                to hold quite different interpretations of the term.


Relationship To Theory
Another important difference between quantitative and qualitative
                                methods is in their approach to the relationship between theory and
                                research. Quantitative studies usually commence deductively with a
                                theory which will subsequently be tested through the process of
                                research, while qualitative approaches inductively build theory.
                                Hence, quantitative research seeks to verify theory, while
                                qualitative research seeks to establish it. This formulation,
                                however, is too simplistic. As Brennan (1992) points out, deduction
                                and induction are involved in all types of research. Rather than
                                build theory, many surveys are largely descriptive, and some
                                quantitative research is concerned with theory generation rather
                                than confirmation. Some qualitative studies also commence with at
                                least some notion of a theoretical framework. So, the contrast
                                between quantitative and qualitative research is not as clear cut as
                                is sometimes implied (Bryman, 1999).


Scope Of Findings
Another commonly conceived difference between the two methods is in
                                terms of their scope. Quantitative methods, for example, are
                                regarded as nomothetic whilst qualitative studies are seen as
                                ideographic. Nomothetic research attempts to establish law-like
                                findings that hold irrespective of time or place. One implication is
                                the care often taken to select representative samples for the
                                research and the attempt to generalize to wider populations.
                                Ideographic research, however, locates its findings in specific time
                                periods and localities and is much more concerned with the depth and
                                intensity of findings rather than breadth (generalizability).
                                However, as Bryman (1999) warns, qualitative researchers sometimes
                                exhibit some unease over this point, seeking to illustrate in some
                                way how their findings can be applied beyond the confines of a
                                specific case. And even quantitative studies can struggle to make
                                nomothetic claims if they are not based upon random samples, or if
                                they refer to highly restricted populations. The consistency of
                                findings over time is also rarely given much consideration.


The Nature Of Data
The kind of data collected by quantitative and qualitative
                                researchers is also seen as different. Quantitative studies generate
                                data in the form of numbers, often depicted positively as reliable
                                and rigorous, probably because of their association with
                                'science'. In contrast, qualitative research generates what is claimed to
                                be 'rich' or 'deep' data, usually in the
                                form of text but sometimes in photographs, maps or other visual
                                media. Quantitative surveys, however, also frequently collect
                                qualitative comments, while in qualitative analysis the number of
                                times a word or phrase occurs may be measured through a frequency
                                    count, yielding numerical data.



Conducting Mixed Methods


We have seen, then, that various authors have highlighted both
                                differences and similarities between quantitative and qualitative
                                research. However, Rossman and Wilson (1985) suggest that these
                                views fall into three alternative schools of thought, namely: the
                                    purists, the situationalists and the
                                    pragmatists (see Figure
                                    8.1). These camps can be considered as lying on a continuum,
                                with the purists and pragmatists at opposite ends and the
                                situationalists positioned somewhere in the middle. Purists argue
                                that quantitative and qualitative methods are mutually exclusive,
                                because they stem from different ontological and epistemological
                                positions about the nature of research. Hence, their ways of looking
                                at the world and determining what is important to know are very
                                different. Situationalists maintain that both methods have value but
                                that certain research questions lend themselves more to quantitative
                                approaches and others to qualitative. Situationalists, then, see the
                                two approaches as potentially complementary, but representing
                                fundamentally different epistemological traditions. Pragmatists,
                                however, see the whole debate between the two approaches as a false
                                dichotomy, arguing that, for example, quantitative methods are not
                                necessarily positivist and qualitative methods not necessarily
                                hermeneutic (socially constructed). Bryman (2007a), for example,
                                argues that the epistemological differences between quantitative and
                                qualitative methods have been exaggerated. Pragmatists, then,
                                recommend integrating the two methods within a single study,
                                utilizing the strengths of both. Rather than come at a research
                                problem from a position of epistemological purity, researchers
                                should begin with their research questions and select the most
                                appropriate method(s) (Tashakkori and Teddlie, 2009).
Figure 8.1
                                    Mixing or not mixing methods: purist, situationalist and
                                    pragmatist.Source: Adapted from Rossman and
                                    Wilson, 1985




What Do We Mean By Mixed Methods Research?
Mixed methods research is becoming increasingly recognized as the third
                            major research approach or paradigm (Johnson et al., 2007). But if this
                            confident statement is correct, what do we understand mixed methods to
                            mean? It should be acknowledged straightaway that this is not an easy
                            question to answer, partly because the paradigm (if that is what it is)
                            is relatively new, and so its philosophy, approaches to design,
                            methodology and approaches to analysis, still promote argument and
                            controversy. A study of the definitions provided by 19 mixed methods
                            research scholars, found that three definitions considered that the
                            mixing occurred at the data collection stage, two definitions suggested
                            that mixing occurred at both the data collection and data analysis
                            stages, while four assumed that mixing can occur at all stages of the
                            research process (Johnson et al., 2007). Furthermore, as Bryman (2007b)
                            points out, there is currently an absence of well-known exemplars of
                            mixed methods research. A number of scholars, however, are engaging in a
                            productive dialogue that is beginning to create at least the beginnings
                            of consensus.



Mixed Methods Research


Mixed methods have been defined as 'the collection or analysis of
                            both quantitative and qualitative data in a single study in which the
                            data are collected concurrently or sequentially, are given a priority,
                            and involve the integration of data at one or more stages in the process
                            of research' (Creswell et al., 2003: 212). Yin (2006), however,
                            argues that there are many different mixes or combinations of methods
                            - for example, using a combination of experimentation and survey,
                            both being commonly recognized as quantitative methods. Hence, according
                            to Yin, mixed methods do not necessarily include qualitative approaches.
                            Similarly, he argues that a study could combine two qualitative methods
                            without the use of quantitative methods. According to Yin (2006), a
                            mixed methods study can exist when it includes methods between (or to a
                            lesser extent within) the items illustrated in Figure
                                8.2.
However, most researchers conceptualize mixed methods research as a
                            mixture of quantitative and qualitative methods. As Hanson et al. (2005)
                            suggest, using mixed methods allows researchers to simultaneously
                            generalize from a sample to a population and to gain a richer,
                            contextual understanding of the phenomenon being researched.
                            Quantitative research, then, allows us to identify relationships between
                            variables and to make generalizations. Qualitative research, on the
                            other hand, is appropriate because it is capable of analysing concrete
                            cases in their 'temporal and local particularity' (Flick,
                            2009: 13) and starting from people's expressions and actions
                            embedded within a local context.

... the careful measurement, generalizable samples, experimental
                                control, and statistical tools of good quantitative studies are
                                precious assets. When they are combined with up-close, deep,
                                credible understanding of complex real-world contexts that
                                characterize good qualitative studies, we have a very powerful mix.
                                (Miles and Huberman, 1994: 42)

Philosophically, mixed methods research adopts a pragmatic method
                            and system, based on a view of knowledge as being both socially
                            constructed and based upon the reality of the world we experience
                            and live in (Johnson et al., 2007). Its mode of inquiry then makes use
                            of induction (to identify patterns), deduction (testing theories and
                            hypotheses) and abduction (uncovering and relying on the best
                            explanations for understanding one's results) (Johnson and
                            Onwuegbuzie, 2004). Research methods are not determined dogmatically
                            according to a set of assumptions that flow from one paradigm or
                            another, but flow from the nature of the research questions being asked
                            in a way that offers the best chance of obtaining useful and workable
                            answers. Table 8.2 offers an overview of how
                            the 'mix' in mixed methods research manifests itself in
                            actual studies.
Figure 8.2 A broad
                                variety of mixed methods researchSource: Adapted from Yin, R.K. (2006)
                                'Mixed methods research: are the methods genuinely integrated
                                or merely parallel,' Research in the Schools, 13(1):
                                41-47. Reprinted with permission of the original copyright
                                holder.
Mixed research has its recent history in the social and behavioural
                            sciences, particularly in the work of cultural anthropologists and
                            especially fieldwork sociologists. However, the term mixed methods was
                            not coined until many years later. Johnson et al. (2007) describe how
                            Campbell and Fiske's (1959) article on 'multiple
                            operationalism', introducing the idea of triangulation, is
                            sometimes viewed as pioneering the use of mixed methods. But it was Webb
                            et al. (2000) who actually coined the term triangulation, arguing that
                            two or more independent measurement processes greatly reduced the
                            uncertainty in interpreting data. Denzin (1978) later defined how these
                            triangulation methods should be put into practice, distinguishing
                            between within-methods triangulation using either multiple
                            quantitative or multiple qualitative methods, and between-methods
                            triangulation which involves both quantitative and qualitative methods.
                            Denzin (1978) argued that it was between-methods triangulation that was
                            potentially the most powerful because the bias of methods from one
                            paradigm could be counterbalanced by the methods from the other.


Source: Adapted from Tashakkori and
                                Creswell, 2007

Many subsequent ideas on mixed
                            methods design, data gathering methods and other elements are reflected
                            in the content presented in the rest of this chapter. It is worth
                            noting, however, that much work still needs to be done in the area of
                            mixed methods research in terms of its philosophical position, designs,
                            data analysis, validity strategies, mixing and integrating procedures
                            (Johnson and Onwuegbuzie, 2004).

On The Web 8.1
Take a look at this video clip in which John Creswell describes how
                                quantitative and qualitative approaches can be integrated into a
                                mixed methods research design:

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1OaNiTlpyX8

(The URL for this video can be accessed via the companion website: https://study.sagepub.com/GrayResearchBusiness.)



John Creswell on Mixed Methods Research
                                        Design





The Benefits Of Mixed Methods Designs
Greene et al. (1989), in a review of 57 evaluation studies, identify five
                            main purposes of using a combination of methods, namely: triangulation;
                            complementarity; development; initiation; and expansion (see Table 8.3). Of these studies, 80
                            per cent of the primary purposes were either complementarity or
                            expansion. Many studies, however, make use of triangulation because the
                            application of multiple methods ensures that the inherent bias of one
                            measure is counterbalanced by the strengths of the other. Hence, using
                            multiple methods, the results converge or corroborate one another,
                            strengthening the validity of the findings (Greene et al., 1989).



Impact of Mixed Methods Research



Triangulation
Triangulation means combining several qualitative methods or
                                combining quantitative and qualitative methods. Combining methods
                                allows for one method compensating for the weaknesses or blind spots
                                of the other, but the different methods remain autonomous, operating
                                side by side (Flick, 2009). Triangulation which combines
                                quantitative and qualitative methods can focus on a single case, in
                                which the same people complete a questionnaire and are also
                                interviewed. The answers from both data sets are combined and
                                compared.



Source: Adapted from Greene et
                                    al., 1989



Complementarity
In a complementarity mixed methods study, quantitative and
                                qualitative methods are combined to measure overlapping but also
                                different elements of a phenomenon. This contrasts with
                                triangulation which is using different methods to assess the same
                                conceptual phenomenon. So, for example, in a study of company
                                interns, a qualitative interview could be used to measure a group of
                                interns' career aspirations and the influences on these
                                aspirations; a quantitative questionnaire could then be used to
                                explore the nature, level and perceived ranking of
                                participants' aspirations. Hence, the two measures are
                                assessing similar as well as different aspects of the aspirations
                                concept.


Development
Here the results of one method are used to inform the development of
                                the second. For instance, taking the example in the section above, a
                                quantitative survey could be used to identify groups of respondents
                                with contrasting career aspirations. These purposive samples could
                                then be followed up for in-depth qualitative interviews.



Initiation
In contrast to triangulation which seeks to combine methods towards
                                convergence, initiation uses mixed methods to uncover paradoxes, new
                                perspectives and contradictions. The focus of initiation, then, is
                                the generation of new insights which may lead to the reframing of
                                research questions. In the words of Rossman and Wilson, 'a
                                feeling of a creative leap' (1985: 637).


Expansion
Expansion uses mixed methods to broaden and widen the range of a
                                study. In the evaluation of a training programme, for example,
                                quantitative methods could be used to assess programme outcomes, but
                                qualitative interviews to explore the perspectives of participants
                                and the group processes taking place within the programme.

On The Web 8.2
Take a look at the following website that provides links to
                                    events, a discussion forum and mixed methods resources:

http://mmira.wildapricot.org





Looking At Mixed Methods Research Critically
Fielding and Fielding (1986) call attention to the fact that researchers
                            should not always assume that mixed methods are of benefit. What is
                            important is that at the end of a mixed methods project, the end product
                            should be more than the sum of the individual quantitative and
                            qualitative parts (Bryman, 2007b). This, however, may not always be the
                            case. Researchers, for example, may misinterpret commonalities and
                            differences when data sets are collected using incompatible methods. The
                            mere convergence of research results from quantitative and qualitative
                            methods does not necessarily assure validity (Bryman, 2007a). Another
                            source of discrepancy is related to measurement. Quantitative studies
                            may rely on pre-existing standardized measurement scales. Although these
                            may have been satisfactorily tested by researchers in previous studies
                            for reliability, they may not correspond sufficiently with the
                            constructs being measured. As a result, between group differences can
                            emerge in the qualitative study, but not be found in the
                            quantitative.
From a merely practical perspective, collecting both quantitative and
                            qualitative data can be expensive (Krahn et al., 1995). Adding, say,
                            interviews or participant observation to a quantitative study increases
                            the time required for both participants and the researcher. Problems can
                            also arise in trying to synthesize the findings and interpretations from
                            the two approaches (see Case Study 8.3). Sometimes, for
                            example, puzzling and quite discrepant findings can emerge, adding more
                            complexity rather than validation and congruence. One reason that such
                            discrepancies may arise is the wording of questions. Qualitative
                            research uses more open-ended questions, whereas quantitative research tries to elicit numerical
                            responses. It is quite possible, then, that each type of question
                            elicits different perceptions on the part of respondents and therefore
                            different recollections. 'Obtained responses then address related
                            but different issues and are not easily blended to form a single,
                            well-integrated interpretation' (Krahn et al., 1995: 208).
It is perhaps because of these kinds of difficulties that Bryman (2006),
                            in an analysis of mixed methods articles, found that in many cases the
                            quantitative and qualitative elements had barely been integrated at all.
                            In another study involving interviews with mixed methods researchers,
                            Bryman (2007b) found a host of reasons why many admitted problems in
                            achieving integration of their findings. Some researchers, for example,
                            tended to emphasize one set of findings rather than another, usually
                            because of a bias towards one methodological position. Others admitted
                            that there was a lack of integration because of variations in timelines,
                            with the qualitative phase often lagging behind the quantitative. Bryman
                            (2007b) concludes that there is still considerable confusion concerning
                            how mixed methods findings can be integrated. Giddings (2006) takes this
                            further, arguing that mixed methods are nothing more than
                            'positivism dressed in drag' (2006: 198). Rather than
                            offering the 'best of both worlds', mixed methods finds
                            itself located within the thinking of positivism because it rarely
                            reflects a constructionist or subjectivist view of the world. Thinking
                            is planned in advance, designs are set in place and protocols followed.
                            Qualitative methodological designs that focus on meaning, symbolism and
                            the power of words are marginalized. In the next section we look at how
                            quantitative and qualitative methods can be genuinely integrated.

Top Tip 8.1
If you are undertaking a dissertation as part of a Masters level
                                programme, think very carefully before you embark on a mixed methods
                                design. Often the timescales for completion of dissertations are
                                very tight and using a mixed methods approach might add to your time
                                problems, particularly if your design uses methods sequentially
                                rather than concurrently. Consult with your supervisor for advice.
                                For those undertaking doctoral or post-doctoral studies, these kinds
                                of issues are less relevant since more time is usually
                                available.



Top Tips: Using Mixed Methods





Types Of Mixed Methods Design
Quantitative and qualitative methods can be used interdependently (and in
                            a range of different sequences) or independently, focusing either on the
                            same research question or different questions. Whatever design is chosen
                            will depend on the kinds of research questions asked, and how the
                            combination of methods can bring added dimensions to the research.
Design 1 (see Figure 8.3) begins with an
                            exploratory, qualitative framework which helps towards the
                            identification and classification of themes and concepts. These in turn
                            help towards the development of a quantitative questionnaire. The
                            questionnaire findings are then deepened and tested by the next round of
                            qualitative research. Design 2 begins with an initial survey which helps
                            to point the fieldworker to phenomena of importance. A qualitative stage
                            then helps to establish and deepen understanding of the phenomenon. A
                            quantitative experiment is then designed to test some resulting, perhaps
                            competing, hypotheses. In Design 3 both quantitative and qualitative
                            methods are used in an integrated fashion, as needed to generate an
                            understanding of the case, while Design 4 demonstrates what Miles and
                            Huberman (1994) call a multiwave survey. The first survey draws
                            attention to what the qualitative fieldworker must look for, the
                            findings of which inform and modify the next wave of quantitative
                            research. We will now examine a number of designs in depth, some being
                            illustrated by a Case Study.
Figure 8.3 Four
                                mixed methods models

Qualitative Then Quantitative
This is a common approach to mixed methods design, and occurs when
                                the results of a qualitative study are used to inform the
                                quantitative research phase. This design is used in circumstances
                                where relatively little or nothing is known about the research
                                setting or research problems. In such a situation, it would be
                                unfeasible and impractical to design a questionnaire, since the
                                constructs being measured are either unknown or not sufficiently
                                understood. The qualitative study, then, explores, identifies and
                                can provide clarity about the kinds of variables requiring further
                                investigation.
As Darlington and Scott (2002) comment, this qualitative and
                                quantitative design has sometimes led to the perception among some
                                researchers that the qualitative phase is somehow inferior to the
                                quantitative, but this should not be seen as the case. Instead, the
                                qualitative stage should be seen as having a developmental purpose
                                (see Table 8.3). Although one method
                                might be more prominent than the other, it is still the case that
                                both methods have a specific purpose and therefore value.

Case Study 8.1

Mixed Methods: Qualitative Then
                                        Quantitative
A study reported by Laurie (1992) illustrates some of the
                                        benefits but also some of the challenges of using
                                        qualitative followed by quantitative methods. She describes
                                        the Household Allocative Systems Project (HASP) which formed
                                        part of the preliminary work for the British Household Panel
                                        Study (BHPS) which sought to identify the allocative systems
                                        that exist within UK households through studying the values,
                                        attitudes, beliefs and behaviours of household members. The
                                        second objective was to pre-test a short questionnaire that
                                        was to be incorporated into a larger BHPS questionnaire
                                        schedule.
Qualitative
                                        techniques were used by HASP to identify the key indicators
                                        and to clarify concepts to be used in the more extensive
                                        quantitative study. The quantitative research was to provide
                                        data, showing how changes in income, labour market
                                        behaviour, housing conditions, education and health, etc.
                                        influence patterns of consumer spending. Because the data
                                        sets are longitudinal, they were to show how events can have
                                        an effect on 'outcomes', that is, changing
                                        patterns of consumption. However, while the analysis was to
                                        show the direction of change and causality, it would say
                                        little about the process through which the change occurred.
                                        Shifts in motivation and perception often occur in quite a
                                        subtle manner rather than being shifted decisively by just
                                        one event. These processes are more easily accessed through
                                        qualitative research - 'the subjective
                                        interpretation of events and social processes ... are
                                        not easily measured in the context of a structured
                                        questionnaire' (Laurie, 1992: 148).
Hence, the qualitative element of the research was conducted
                                        in two main stages. The first stage consisted of
                                        unstructured qualitative interviews, group discussions and
                                        the pre-test of the structured questionnaire with a sample
                                        of 19 married or cohabiting couples. The second stage
                                        consisted of further unstructured interviews and group
                                        discussions with members of a sample of multi-adult
                                        households.
The qualitative data revealed that each member of a household
                                        legitimates their claim to household funds on the basis of
                                        the use to which they are put. For women, this is strongly
                                        linked to their labour market status. For example, women who
                                        are dependent upon a sole main earner, feel that they have
                                        the least legitimate claim to spend money other than on what
                                        was defined as 'household expenditure'. For
                                        example, if they spent money on a new dress, they would hide
                                        it in a wardrobe for a few weeks before saying, truthfully,
                                        that they bought it a few weeks ago. Alternatively, they
                                        would admit to a price lower than what they actually paid.
                                        Where women were earning and contributing to the household
                                        budget, these feelings of guilt were much less
                                        pronounced.
It was found that the qualitative research greatly aided
                                        conceptual clarification, particularly through the negative
                                        cases which revealed the shortcomings of the emerging
                                        conceptual framework. In addition, the qualitative data
                                        provided the researchers with greater insights into the
                                        types of household arrangements, helping them to analyse the
                                        quantitative data with greater understanding.


Source: Adapted from Laurie, 1992



Activity 8.1
Case Study 8.1 identifies some of the very real benefits of
                                    combining a qualitative and quantitative design. What else does
                                    it tell us about the kinds of monetary and time resources needed
                                    in this type of design?



Quantitative Then Qualitative
This occurs when the findings of a quantitative study are used to
                                develop the qualitative stage. As noted in Design 2 above, a
                                quantitative study could be used to identify important themes that
                                qualitative fieldwork could then deepen. However, as Bryman (1992)
                                points out, it is more usual that a quantitative survey is used to
                                identify groups of respondents with strongly contrasting views about
                                a subject. These polarized groups can then be used for follow-up
                                qualitative interviews to gain an in-depth understanding of why
                                these differences exist.


Case Study 8.2

Mixed Methods: Quantitative Then
                                        Qualitative
A study by Harrigan, Ramsey and Ibottson (2012) sought to
                                        investigate the role of technology in the customer
                                        relationship marketing activities (e-CRM) of small and
                                        medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in Ireland. The study
                                        adopted a sequential mixed methods approach, using a single
                                        quantitative phase followed by a qualitative phase. In the
                                        first phase, a quantitative survey consisting of a
                                        five-point Likert scale was issued to 1,445
                                        service-sector SMEs in both Northern Ireland and the
                                        Republic of Ireland. This phase aimed to collect data on the
                                        demographics of SMEs and their owner-managers, the
                                        nature of their marketing and CRM activities and the extent
                                        and nature of e-CRM and its benefits/challenges. The second
                                        phase comprised a qualitative, face-to-face, in-depth
                                        interview with 40 SME owner-managers, designed to
                                        help interpret, clarify, illuminate, describe and validate
                                        the quantitative findings. Thus key issues identified in
                                        Phase 1 (quantitative) were investigated in greater detail
                                        in Phase 2 (qualitative). The sub-sample of 40 SMEs were
                                        chosen to represent a full range of cases from the
                                        quantitative analysis. Hence, it contained information-rich
                                        cases (intensity sampling) and deviant cases.



Activity 8.2
In Case Study 8.2 the detailed case studies were selected through
                                    a combination of intensity and deviant case sampling. Why was
                                    this an approach likely to capture the full range of cases from
                                    the quantitative survey?



Quantitative And Qualitative Concurrently
Mixed designs do not always have to be interdependent. Sometimes
                                quantitative and qualitative elements can be conducted quite
                                independently and not in any particular order - hence, they
                                could be carried out concurrently, sequentially, with qualitative
                                before quantitative or vice versa. Different methods could be used
                                to address the same research question or focus on different aspects
                                of the research. In Figure 8.1, for example, a
                                pragmatist approach might use a quantitative survey and qualitative
                                interviews concurrently in addressing the same research
                                question.
Case Study 8.3 provides another illustration which shows how
                                quantitative and qualitative studies can be used so that one method
                                can deepen and validate the other.

Case Study 8.3

Mixed Methods: Quantitative And Qualitative
                                        Concurrently
Qualitative research can provide an alternative methodology
                                        to quantitative. Bartunek and Myeong-Gu (2002) describe a
                                        Finnish study by Kinnunen et al. (2000) which addressed two
                                        primary research questions: (1) What are the organizational
                                        factors that influence employees' perceived job
                                        insecurity; and (2) What is the effect of the perceived job
                                        insecurity on employees' well-being at the
                                        organizational level? The Finnish researchers investigated these
                                        questions in three locations, reflecting different economic
                                        conditions in three major sectors of Finnish industry,
                                        namely: a factory in the export industry, a domestic bank,
                                        and a healthcare department in the public sector. In
                                        conducting the study, the researchers constructed a
                                        quantitative questionnaire based upon constructs well known
                                        in the literature, comprising antecedents of job insecurity
                                        (organizational communication and a restorative strategy),
                                        three indices of perceived job insecurity (powerlessness,
                                        importance of changes and the likelihood of changes) and
                                        four outcomes of perceived job insecurity (organizational
                                        commitment, colleague relations, superior relations and
                                        organizational efficiency). The variables were measured
                                        using combinations of questionnaire items that formed
                                        reliable scales. The findings included: (1) perceived job
                                        insecurity varies with gender and organizations but not with
                                        time; (2) managers' use of restorative strategies
                                        decreases perceived job insecurity; (3) perceived job
                                        insecurity negatively affects colleague relationships,
                                        employees' relationships with their line managers,
                                        and perceived organizational efficiency.
Bartunek and Myeong-Gu (2002), however, argue that a
                                        potential weakness of quantitative studies like this is the
                                        assumption that the predefined variables used have the same
                                        meanings for actors across multiple settings. Kinnunen et
                                        al. (2000) pre-selected their variables, based upon
                                        previously developed theories and scales. But what if local
                                        meanings differ from researchers' meanings
                                        (particularly if a scale developed on one continent is used
                                        to assess experiences on another continent)? And what if
                                        different respondents' meanings differ from each
                                        other? Even in the literature there is no unanimous
                                        agreement as to the precise definition of job insecurity.
                                        Bartunek and Myeong-Gu discuss how this same study could
                                        have been explored using a qualitative methodology, arguing
                                        that such an approach allows researchers to attend to the
                                        depth of local actors' understandings of job
                                        insecurity.
They do not argue that academic definitions of constructs
                                        should be replaced by those of local organizational members.
                                        What is important is that these constructs are explored in a
                                        local context in order to validate them. This process can
                                        also lead to the discovery of new dimensions that have not
                                        been used in previously developed scales. Even if local
                                        validation only indicates consensus with researchers'
                                        definitions, this helps to 'flesh out the
                                        phenomenological experience of the construct in the local
                                        setting' (Bartunek and Myeong-Gu, 2002: 239). This is
                                        because questionnaire studies leave out the dynamics of
                                        sense-making in a local context. Qualitative approaches can
                                        help to provide an understanding of the underlying dynamics
                                        of meaning-making, and how constructs evolve. Finally,
                                        rather than aggregate data across sites, qualitative
                                        researchers are more likely to take each site as an
                                        individual case, seeing each organization as having its own
                                        unique environment and dynamic history. Hence, a qualitative
                                        study would seek to compare the similarities and differences
                                        in patterns of interactions between the organizations, the
                                        meanings associated with key variables and their influences
                                        on organizational outcomes. Hence, the qualitative
                                        methodology would validate but potentially widen and deepen
                                        the findings of the quantitative study.


Source: Bartunek and Myeong-Gu, 2002



Activity 8.3
Consider what should be done when the quantitative and
                                    qualitative data produce different or even conflicting results.
                                    Should one set of data be relied upon more than the other?
                                    Should one set of data be discarded? Should further data be
                                    gathered and if so, how?



Top Tip 8.2
Many researchers are trained in, or come to adopt, either the
                                    quantitative or qualitative paradigm. Hence, they often lack
                                    experience and in-depth understanding in the paradigm that is
                                    new to them. New skills have to be learned and old habits put in
                                    check. Miles and Huberman (1994) recommend that those who are
                                    attempting to use mixed methods for the first time should make
                                    use of a 'friendly stranger' (1994: 43). A more
                                    modern phrase would probably be a 'critical
                                    friend', defined by Costa and Kallick as: 'a
                                    trusted person who asks provocative questions, provides data to
                                    be examined through another lens, and offers critiques of a
                                    person's work as a friend' (1993: 50). The
                                    critical friend should, ideally, be someone who has both
                                    theoretical and working experience of using mixed methods
                                    research. So, for example, this might be your academic
                                    supervisor, another academic in your department, or a fellow
                                    researcher who has undertaken a mixed methods study. Also, try
                                    typing 'mixed methods conference' into a search
                                    engine to identify where mixed methods research is being
                                    showcased and debated.



Research Methods Interview






Summary
Quantitative and qualitative research methods have traditionally
                                    been associated with conflicting research paradigms based upon
                                    quite different epistemological positions.Many modern researchers, however, recognize that quantitative
                                    and qualitative approaches can be combined into a mixed methods
                                    design.Mixed methods approaches can be based upon different types of
                                    research question, sampling procedures, data collection methods
                                    or approaches to data analysis.Mixed methods designs are flexible and can include sequential
                                    designs with quantitative methods preceding qualitative, or vice
                                    versa, or concurrent designs.Mixed methods designs should be based upon the kinds of
                                    questions being addressed and how the design can aid in the
                                    answering of these questions.


Further Reading
Creswell, J.W. and Clark, V.P. (2011) Designing and Conducting Mixed
                                Methods Research, 2nd edn. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage. Aimed mainly
                            at graduates and researchers, this book usefully contains four complete
                            published articles that exemplify different mixed methods
                            approaches.
Tashakkori, A. and Creswell, J.W. (eds) Journal of Mixed Methods
                                Research. First published in January 2007, this journal contains
                            contributions from some of the scholars who have moulded mixed methods
                            research into the 'third methodological movement'. A
                            mixture of conceptual articles that tackle the philosophy, methodology
                            and methods in mixed research, and reports on empirical studies applying
                            mixed methods.
Tashakkori, A. and Teddlie, C. (eds) (2009) Handbook of Mixed Methods
                                in Social and Behavioral Research, 3rd edn. Thousand Oaks, CA:
                            Sage. A lively mix of contributors offering a diverse range of
                            perspectives from a variety of disciplines.



Journal Resources
Billiet, J. and Loosveldt, G. (1988) 'Improvement of the quality
                            of responses to factual survey questions by interview training',
                                Public Opinion Quarterly, 52(2): 190-211. Here, in
                            quantitative research, the emphasis is on discovering whether training
                            interviewers minimizes the ways in which their use of questions biases
                            responses between the researcher and the researched.
Ihantola, E.-M. and Kihn, L.-A. (2011) 'Threats to validity and
                            reliability in mixed methods accounting research', Qualitative
                                Research in Accounting & Management, 8(1): 39-58.
                            Addresses the specific threats to quality that come to the fore when
                            inferences from the quantitative and qualitative components of the study
                            are combined to form meta-inferences. A comprehensive list provided of
                            threats to internal and contextual validity.
Malina, M.A., Nørreklit, H.S.O. and Selto, F.H. (2011)
                            'Lessons learned: Advantages and disadvantages of mixed method
                            research', Qualitative Research in Accounting &
                                Management, 8(1): 59-71. Describes the methodological
                            lessons learned while conducting a series of mixed methods longitudinal
                            studies.
Sirianni, N.J. and Lastovicka, J.L (2011) 'Truly, madly, deeply:
                            Consumers in the throes of material possession love', Journal
                                of Consumer Research, 38(2): 323-342. Uses qualitative
                            interviews as part of the process of a quantitative survey instrument,
                            designed to test consumer 'love' for their
                            possessions.

Don't forget to visit the companion website at https://study.sagepub.com/grayresearchbusiness for the
                                following resources which support this chapter:

















9 Sampling Strategies In
                        Business

Chapter Introduction

Chapter Outline
Probability samplingNon-probability samplingMixed methods samplingSampling hard to reach populationsSample size - how much is enough?


Keywords
Sampling strategiesProbability samplingNon-probability samplingMixed methods samplingSampling hard to reach populationsSample size



Icon Key







Author Video







Chapter Objectives
After reading this chapter you will be able to:
Distinguish between probability and non-probability
                                        approaches to sampling.Describe the implications of using non-probability sampling
                                        for external validity.Select from a taxonomy of quantitative and qualitative
                                        sampling schemes.Integrate quantitative and qualitative sampling approaches
                                        into a mixed methods sampling design.Sample hard to reach populations.Know when to continue sampling and when to stop.



In this chapter we will discuss the process of selecting samples from a
                            population, a population being any group that shares a common set of
                            traits (Black, 1999). So a population could be all the lorry drivers in
                            a country, all female shop workers in a town, or members of an online
                            social media site. In Chapter 6 we explored sampling in
                            the context of quantitative methods and also ways of actually selecting
                            random samples using either random numbers tables or Web tools. In this
                            chapter we will broaden the discussion and explore a wide range of
                            sampling strategies available in both quantitative and qualitative
                            methods. The careful sampling of participants and data sources is a key
                            component of any research study. Indeed, in research 'sampling is
                            destiny' (Kemper, Stringfield and Teddlie, 2003: 275). In
                            quantitative research (as discussed in Chapter
                            6) this primarily involves the use of probability sampling
                            techniques which involve the selection of a relatively large number of
                            units from the population, or from specific sub-groups (strata), in a
                            random manner where each unit has an equal chance of being selected.
                            Random selection helps to achieve (but does not always guarantee) a
                            sample that is representative of the population being researched. One of
                            the primary aims of quantitative designs is producing results which can
                            be generalized to a larger population. In qualitative research the
                            primary aim is not usually generalization, but the need to select
                            respondents and data that are likely to generate robust, rich and deep
                            levels of understanding (Thompson, 1999), that is, people who possess
                            the characteristics or who live in circumstances relevant to the
                            phenomenon being studied (Mays and Pope, 1996).



Sampling


In qualitative research, sample selection will have a profound impact on
                            the ultimate quality of the research, one reason why a considerable
                            amount of this chapter is devoted to this theme. Sampling design in
                            qualitative research varies according to the paradigm and research
                            epistemologies adopted (Creswell, 2009). Phenomenological research, for
                            example, tends to involve purposively selected individuals who tend to
                            share common experiences so that detailed patterns of meaning and
                            relationships can be identified (Moustakas, 1994). Ethnographic
                            researchers use layers of sampling decisions to achieve rich and thick
                            descriptions of cultures, community or social context (Lofland and
                            Lofland, 2006). In case study research, the researcher makes the vital
                            decision on which cases to select, and may use any number of probability
                            and non-probability sampling approaches. However, while these
                            qualitative research approaches encompass a range of research
                            traditions, there are a number of discernible common threads across the
                            approaches in that qualitative sampling is:
Naturalistic, that is, it takes place in ordinary settings where
                                    people live and work.Unified, in that there are common threads between the questions,
                                    goals and purpose of the researchEmergent, in that sampling strategies and the goals of the
                                    research are based on ongoing reflections, data analysis,
                                    provisional hypotheses and often further sampling.Serial, that is, choices about sampling are based upon data
                                    collected from previous samples.
As we will see, just as there are many qualitative methods, there are
                            also many types of qualitative sampling strategies. In contrast,
                            approaches to quantitative sampling are less diverse, but no less
                            important.
Image 9.1 A
                                population - in research terms, a group that shares common
                                characteristics© iStock.com / sculpies


Probability Sampling
As we have just seen, probability sampling is one of the defining
                            features of quantitative research. Chapter 6
                            discussed probability sampling, which involves selecting random samples
                            of subjects from a given population, a population being the total number
                            of possible units or elements that are part of the study. Samples are
                            chosen on the basis that they are representative of the population as a
                            whole, in terms of key characteristics. Confidence in the representative
                            nature of a sample makes it possible to make inferences from the results
                            to the larger population. Probability sampling includes random sampling,
                            stratified sampling, cluster sampling and stage sampling.

Random Sampling
This relies on taking a completely random sample of the population
                                (as in Activity 6.4 in Chapter 6) and is used when it
                                is believed that the population is relatively homogeneous with
                                respect to the research questions of interest. It relies, however,
                                on having access to a complete list of the population (the sampling
                                frame is equal to the population) so this may not always be
                                practicable. With simple random sampling (SRS), as was demonstrated
                                in Chapter 6, we can use either a
                                random numbers table or (as in Activity 6.4) an online number
                                generating tool to
                                generate numbers which are then applied to numbers assigned to the
                                elements in a sampling frame. Let's say that we want to
                                interview 40 out of the 400 employees of an out of town superstore.
                                Each square in Figure 9.1 represents one of
                                the employees, with each square being numbered from 1, top left, to
                                400 bottom right. Simple random sampling might lead to the sort of
                                selection as represented in Figure
                                    9.1. However, even a casual glance shows that the
                                distribution of units is uneven. Say that the larger squares in Figure 9.1 (each with 25 small
                                squares) represent a department. We can see that random sampling has
                                led to five employees being selected in one department and only one
                                employee in three departments. To avoid this over-sampling and
                                under-sampling, we might adopt systemic sampling (next) or
                                stratified random sampling (below).



Simple Random Sampling


Figure 9.1
                                    Simple random sample


Systematic Sampling
In systematic sampling every kth element of a sampling frame
                                is chosen for the sample. So, if the intention was to select a
                                sample of 40 from a list of 400, every tenth element would be
                                chosen. K is called the sampling interval, with the first element
                                being chosen randomly. So, if the first randomly selected number was
                                3, we would then take this and then the 13th unit from the list,
                                then the 23rd, etc. until we have our 40 randomly selected elements
                                from the list (as in Figure 9.2).
Figure 9.2
                                    Systematic sampling taking every kth unit from the listed
                                    population


Stratified Random Sampling
Stratified random sampling represents a modification of simple random
                                sampling and systematic sampling (Dattalo, 2010). However,
                                stratified random sampling is a method for achieving a greater
                                degree of representativeness and for reducing the degree of sampling
                                error (recall Chapter 6). Recall that
                                sampling error is reduced by increasing the size of the sample and
                                by increasing the homogeneity of elements within the sample.
                                Stratified random sampling, then, consists of taking a random sample
                                from various strata. Taking our superstore example again, each of
                                the 16 departments in the superstore represents a stratum and we
                                randomly select three employees from each stratum (class), as in Figure 9.3.



Stratified Sampling


An advantage of stratified random sampling is that it increases the
                                likelihood of key groups being in the sample while still ensuring an
                                element of random selection. The disadvantage is that very often the
                                researcher will not have sufficient information on which to base the
                                strata (Fife-Schaw, 2000). For example, if conducting research using
                                income levels to create the strata sub-groups, organizations and
                                individuals are often reluctant to reveal this kind of data as it is
                                felt to be confidential.
Figure 9.3
                                    Stratified random sampling, randomly selecting three units from
                                    each strata


Cluster Sampling
Cluster sampling acknowledges the difficulty in sampling a population
                                as a whole, especially when convenient sampling frames are not
                                available. For example, in the superstore study, you might not be
                                granted access to a list of company employees. Instead, you could
                                obtain a list of all the departments in the organization and
                                randomly select a percentage of them. You would use all the
                                employees from these departments as your sample (this is the cluster
                                element of cluster sampling). Hence, in Figure
                                    9.4, three departments have been randomly selected from the
                                16 departments in the superstore and all the employees from these
                                three departments used for the study. For the purposes of increasing
                                accuracy, it is better to have a large number of small clustering
                                units than a small number of large units (Fife-Schaw, 2000). So, in
                                the superstore example, it would be better to cluster on the basis
                                of individual superstores than, say, clustering on the basis of the
                                company that owns the superstores. A form of cluster sampling, geographical
                                clustering, is common in many large-scale surveys. So, rather than
                                randomly sampling every household in a city, a number of streets are
                                randomly selected and all households in those streets used for the
                                study. Although this runs the risk that some of the streets might
                                not be representative of the city, it is usually a more
                                cost-effective approach.



Cluster Sampling


Figure 9.4
                                    Cluster sampling



Possible Application of Cluster
                                        Analysis


Cluster sampling is useful because it is not always possible to get
                                access to a comprehensive sampling frame. One of the disadvantages
                                of cluster sampling is that it is possible to inadvertently select
                                clusters that contain very few people. As Dattalo (2010) also points
                                out, whereas simple stratified sampling is subject to a single
                                sampling error, two-stage cluster sampling is prone to two sampling
                                errors. First, the initial sample of clusters will represent the
                                population of clusters only within a range of sampling error;
                                secondly, the sample of elements within a cluster will represent all
                                the elements in that cluster within a range of sampling error. So,
                                in our superstore example, the researcher runs the risk of selecting
                                a disproportionate number of departments where overall performance
                                is below the norm, and then selecting within those departments a
                                disproportionate number of poorly performing employees. As with
                                random sampling, sampling error is reduced by increasing the size of
                                each cluster and by increasing the homogeneity within each
                                cluster.



Multi-Stage Sampling
Multi-stage sampling is an extension of cluster sampling that
                                involves successive random selections at more than one stage. The
                                population represents the primary stage beneath which there lies the
                                second and third stages, etc. So, for example, a researcher wants to
                                select 1,000 superstores within a country using multi-stage
                                sampling. Firstly, within a country of 50 regions (the primary
                                stage), 5 regions are randomly selected. At the second stage, within
                                these 5 regions, 10 districts are selected. At the third stage, 5
                                cities within each of the 10 districts are randomly selected.
                                Finally, at the fourth stage, 4 superstores within each city are
                                selected, making a total of 1,000 superstores. Typically,
                                multi-stage sampling is used for large-scale studies that may
                                address large geographical areas (Kothari, 2004).



Non-Probability Sampling
Patton (1990) suggests 15 different purposive strategies, each dependent
                            on the purpose of the study. Teddlie and Yu (2007) have taken these and
                            organized them into three broader purposive categories, namely, sampling
                            to achieve representativeness or comparability, sampling special or
                            unique cases, and sequential sampling. To purposive sampling, Teddlie
                            and Yu (2007) add two more approaches, convenience and mixed methods
                            sampling, which are added to Figure
                                9.5. Sekaran and Bougie (2013) argue that non-probability
                            sampling can be divided into purposive and quota sampling
                            - hence quota sampling is added to the taxonomy in Figure 9.5. Each scheme is then
                            discussed below in detail.
Figure 9.5 A
                                taxonomy of non-probability sampling schemesSource: Adapted from Patton, 1990,
                                Teddlie and Yu, 2007 and Sekaran and Bougie, 2013


Quota Sampling
Quota sampling is similar to random stratified sampling in that both
                                select units from the strata chosen. However, in the case of random
                                stratified sampling this is done (as the name suggests) randomly. In
                                quota sampling researchers use non-random sampling methods to gather
                                data from a stratum until the required quota, fixed in advance by
                                the researcher, is fulfilled. So, the researcher may choose to
                                stratify the study according to social class, and go on selecting
                                subjects until each of the strata is filled to a chosen level. An
                                advantage of quota sampling is that each group is of equal size
                                which can be important for certain inferential statistical tests
                                (see Chapter 23). The disadvantage
                                is that the size of certain strata may not accurately reflect their
                                proportion in the overall population. For example, production
                                workers outnumber managers in most industrial organizations. Ayob,
                                Yap, Sapuan and Rashid (2013) report on a study which explored the
                                social entrepreneurial intentions amongst undergraduates in
                                Malaysia. It was not possible to gain access to a sampling frame of
                                all Malaysian undergraduates. Hence, a quota sampling technique was
                                adopted through which the researchers explored the websites of
                                Malaysian universities to find those that offered social
                                entrepreneurship as a separate course for their students. Four
                                universities were found, after which 400 questionnaires were
                                distributed within the business and economics departments of these
                                four universities.



Quota Sampling



Top Tip 9.1
It is not always possible to know who is representative of the
                                    key criteria in a study and who is not. Hence, having chosen the
                                    key criteria in advance, go on contacting respondents. If, after
                                    the interview or survey, you find they are eligible for the
                                    study, count them into the relevant sub-group. If they are not
                                    eligible, discard the data or put it to one side. Go on sampling
                                    until the sub-groups are full to the pre-determined size.



Top Tips: Sampling Techniques





Purposive Sampling
As Patton (1990) comments, the approach to sampling is perhaps one of
                                the most distinguishing features between quantitative and
                                qualitative research. While quantitative research, typically, relies
                                on large samples, qualitative research uses small samples or even
                                single cases (N = 1), selected purposefully on the basis that
                                they are information-rich cases. Purposive samples, then, are used
                                when particular people, events or settings are chosen because they
                                are known to provide important information that could not be gained
                                from other sampling designs (Maxwell, 1997). In this kind of
                                approach, the researcher exercises a degree of judgement about who
                                will provide the best perspectives on the phenomenon of interest and
                                then invites these participants into the study. However, a
                                disadvantage of purposive sampling is that the researcher may
                                inadvertently omit a vital characteristic on which to select the
                                sample, or may be subconsciously biased in selecting the sample. For
                                example, in conducting a study on gender bias in the recruitment of
                                senior managers, a researcher selects a disproportionate number of
                                women who feel they have been discriminated against (with whom the
                                researcher feels empathy) rather than women who have 'made
                                it' to the top.



Purposive Sampling Types




Sampling To Achieve Representativeness Or
                                    Comparability
Sampling to achieve representativeness tries to identify cases
                                    that are typical or representative of a dimension of interest or
                                    seeks to achieve comparability across different types of cases
                                    on a dimension of interest. Typical case sampling would seek to
                                    identify cases that are typical (that is, representative) of the
                                    dimension being investigated. But qualitative researchers are
                                    also interested in extreme or deviant cases - hence,
                                    extreme or deviant case sampling - because these extreme
                                    cases generate interesting contrasts with other cases, thereby
                                    allowing for comparability across cases (Teddlie and Yu,
                                    2007).

Typical case sampling
Typical cases are chosen because they are not in any way
                                        extreme or deviant or unusual - they represent and
                                        are 'typical' of key aspects of a phenomenon.
                                        The researcher, of course, may have to get confirmation from
                                        others (for example, gatekeepers or other key informants)
                                        that a case is, indeed, typical of a category of cases. For
                                        example, within creative media organizations, researchers
                                        could study 'typical' successful entrepreneurs
                                        in order to understand what factors make for success,
                                        successful, say, being taken to mean those in the top
                                        quartile of businesses posting declared profits. Note that
                                        since the focus is on 'typically' successful
                                        creative businesses, the study might not include those who
                                        are on the extreme end of the successful scale, that is,
                                        those who are performing exceptionally well (say, the top
                                        decile). These might constitute part of an extreme sample
                                        (see next).


Extreme or deviant case sampling (outlier
                                        sampling)
Extreme or deviant cases are selected because they are
                                        unusual or special in some way. In the creative media
                                        industry example, a study might be interested in those
                                        'extreme' businesses that are so successful,
                                        that they are the recipients of national or international
                                        awards for creative innovation and excellence. The point of
                                        extreme cases is that they help to identify the conditions
                                        or features that might explain the differences in outcomes.
                                        What is it that makes these businesses so much better than
                                        the norm for the industry? Is it their lean size and
                                        effective lines of internal communication? Is it their
                                        location being near to creative hubs near inner-city areas?
                                        Is it their informal management structure? Often,
                                        qualitative samples will be combined in a study; so, for
                                        example, a study might explore typical cases and then
                                        contrast them with extreme or deviant cases.


Intensity sampling
An intensity sample consists of information-rich cases that
                                        can provide detailed information. They are not, however,
                                        extreme or deviant cases. To be able to undertake intensity
                                        sampling, prior investigations may be needed to identify
                                        such cases. For example, in investigating the challenges of
                                        leadership, information-rich cases might include:
Directors of start-up companies (that often struggle
                                                to survive the first few years of trading).The Chief Executives of large global corporations
                                                (that operate in complex, global markets).Leaders of not-for-profit organizations (that
                                                struggle to raise money in recessionary times).
Intensity sampling
                                        may be used with other sampling methods; for example,
                                        typical case sampling could be used with 20 cases, before
                                        conducting intensity sampling with five information-rich
                                        cases. Heuristic research (recall Chapter 2) exemplifies intensity sampling because
                                        the heuristic researcher draws intensely on his or her own
                                        personal experiences as part of the data gathering
                                        process.


Maximum variation sampling
In maximum variation sampling the researcher selects a
                                        diverse range of cases so that common patterns that emerge
                                        from this variation can be identified. One of the potential
                                        weaknesses of qualitative research is that with small
                                        samples comes a lot of heterogeneity, which can be a problem
                                        if all the cases are different to each other. However,
                                        maximum variation sampling turns this problem into a virtue.
                                        Any common patterns that emerge from a maximum variation
                                        sample are of particular interest in capturing core values
                                        and experiences. For example, when studying transport
                                        statistics, the researcher could explore congestion rates
                                        across inner-city, suburban, and rural areas to identify
                                        shared patterns that cut across these quite different cases.
                                        The aim of maximum variable sampling, then, is not to
                                        highlight differences or extremes (as in extreme case
                                        sampling), but to describe central themes across diverse
                                        cases.


Homogeneous sampling
The purpose of homogeneous sampling is to describe a small,
                                        homogeneous group in depth (Patton, 1990). As we will see in
                                            Chapter 18, some
                                        researchers prefer homogeneity when selecting participants
                                        for focus groups (see Krueger, 1994) because the
                                        commonalities within the participant group (for example,
                                        age, occupation, social class) help to generate positive
                                        group dynamics and discussion. Phenomenological approaches
                                        tend to favour the use of homogeneous groups or communities
                                        who share common experiences and purposes so that patterns
                                        and meanings can be identified. For example, in researching
                                        the views of those who believe in the importance of
                                        spiritual values within business, researchers might join
                                        some of the online communities they belong to, to understand
                                        how they perceive and construct their world view.


Stratified purposeful sampling
Each of the strata constitutes a fairly homogeneous sample,
                                        the purpose being to capture the major variations between
                                        the strata. As Patton (1990) warns, this is not the same as
                                        stratified sampling in quantitative methods, described
                                        above, in that the sample sizes are going to be much smaller
                                        and hence less capable of producing generalizations. Trost
                                        (1986) offers a stepwise process for developing a stratified
                                        purposeful sampling design as follows:
List a number of independent variables for the
                                                purpose of the study.Eliminate those variables which are less visible or
                                                discernible and keep those that are easily
                                                used.Decide on the borderlines between variables. For
                                                example in a study of 'older workers'
                                                what age should be designated 'old'
                                                - 50, 55, 60?Combine the variables into a sampling table (see Table 9.1). If it
                                                becomes clear that there are too many cells (and
                                                hence too large a sample for the resources at hand),
                                                then reduce some of the variables.Recognize that some cells will be empty.Fill the cells with one or more subjects.




Say we were interested in the relationship between the size
                                        of an organization (SME or corporate), the type of ownership
                                        (family owned or publicly) and the propensity of these
                                        organizations to engage in corporate social responsibility.
                                        We might also want to conduct an international, comparative
                                        study, using the UK and India as the locations. With these
                                        variables, we would have 16 cells. Producing a sampling
                                        table adds clarity to sampling design, gets the researcher
                                        to think carefully about the number of independent
                                        variables, and illustrates clearly the minimum number of
                                        cases the study will require.

Top Tip 9.2
Taking Table 9.1 as an
                                            example, if we felt it prudent to interview at least
                                            five organizations for each of the cells, this would
                                            give us a sample size of 80, probably too many for a
                                            qualitative study. Hence, one solution might be to
                                            reduce the number of cases per cell (but this might be a
                                            threat to reliability) or reduce the number of variables
                                            being studied.



Random purposeful sampling
Even though qualitative studies may not take on the size of
                                        samples addressed in quantitative research, this does not
                                        mean that random sampling approaches are never adopted.
                                        According to Patton (1990), randomly selecting even small
                                        samples will increase the credibility of a study in the eyes
                                        of some. The advantage of this approach is that the cases
                                        are selected in advance of the knowledge generated by the
                                        study. Hence, there is some evidence of planning rather than
                                        just serendipity. However, the outcomes of purposeful random
                                        sampling do not permit statistical generalizations in the
                                        way that quantitative studies would achieve.
This design is used when there is a very rich pool of
                                        potentially information-rich cases available, and no obvious
                                        reason for choosing one case above another. For example,
                                        after a corporate health and safety programme, 500 people
                                        passed a knowledge test and became eligible to be health and
                                        safety representatives, while 200 failed. The company wants
                                        to know more about the reasons behind why people passed or
                                        failed. The numbers here are too large for a purely
                                        purposeful sampling strategy. Hence, the following process
                                        is adopted:
Two groups, Pass and Failed candidates, have been
                                                identified by the quantitative test.Each candidate is allotted a number, and these are
                                                randomly drawn to select cases. The only stipulation
                                                is that each case must meet the criterion that it is
                                                information-rich.Cases are drawn and explored until researchers are
                                                able to make the inferences about passing and
                                                failing that they wish to make. This will include
                                                reaching some agreement on convergent validity,
                                                showing that the quantitative test and the
                                                qualitative indicators are measuring the same
                                                construct.




Sampling Special Or Unique Cases
This approach involves sampling special or rare cases, where the
                                    case itself is of importance rather than an overall issue, and
                                    involves gaining access to cases that had previously been
                                    inaccessible to investigators. For example, in a study of
                                    personal borrowing, researchers might interview people who have
                                    borrowed from banks, but then gained access to some unique cases
                                    who have gained access to a 'pay-day loan
                                    shark'.

Critical case sampling
Critical cases are those that can make a point dramatically
                                        or are, for whatever reason, particularly important (Patton,
                                        1990). They can sometimes be identified by key informants. A
                                        critical case approach might be adopted when the
                                        researcher's resources are limited, and it is only
                                        possible to select one or a few cases. For example, in
                                        investigating 'failing' companies, researchers
                                        might choose those that are actually facing closure, rather
                                        than ones that are merely delivering poor results.


Sampling politically important cases
Sampling sites or organizations where there are political
                                        sensitivities might mean deliberately choosing such samples
                                        or deliberately avoiding them. Politically important cases
                                        are a variation of critical case sampling. A researcher
                                        interested in corporate corruption and failure, for example,
                                        might wish to identify and interview people who worked for
                                        former spectacular corporate failures such as Enron or
                                        Lehman Brothers. Exploring politically sensitive cases
                                        offers the potential advantage of providing valuable
                                        information for policy makers.


Criterion sampling
In criterion sampling all the cases meet some pre-determined
                                        criterion - for example, people with a certain type
                                        of disability which affects their work opportunities, or
                                        those who have had a particular life experience (such as
                                        redundancy). Sometimes, quantitative instruments such as
                                        survey questionnaires might identify a set of criteria which
                                        are then followed up with a study of cases that meet these
                                        criteria. Cases may be chosen because they typify average
                                        scores on the quantitative instrument, an approach that
                                        would be an example of typical case sampling. But cases can
                                        also be chosen that typify extreme scores; these would be
                                        examples of extreme or deviant case sampling. Or cases may
                                        be identified through the quantitative instrument that show
                                        a variable intensity but not extremely, an example of what
                                        Patton (2002) terms intensity sampling (Sandelowski, 2000).
                                        Participants will be sampled in each scoring category until
                                        the point of information redundancy is reached.
Critical incidents can often be a source of criterion
                                        sampling, a critical incident being an emotional event that
                                        represents a period of intense feelings both at the time and
                                        during subsequent reflective interpretation. Cope and Watts
                                        (2000), for example, describes a phenomenological study of
                                        six business cases in which the entrepreneurs all
                                        experienced different kinds and levels of emotional trauma.
                                        However, one of the challenges of using critical incidents
                                        in a planned, sampling process is that their existence may
                                        only become known during the data gathering phase and not
                                        before. Key informants may again be necessary to identify
                                        suitable cases.



Sequential Sampling
Sequential sampling involves a process of gradual sample
                                    selection, and is used when the goal of research is to generate
                                    theory (theoretical sampling) or the sample evolves as data are
                                    being collected. Sequential sampling is one element of mixed
                                    methodology sampling discussed later.



Sequential Sampling




Theoretical sampling
Here, the researcher samples people, organizations, events or
                                        incidents on the basis that they may help to develop
                                        theoretical constructs. As we will see in Chapter 25, theoretical
                                        sampling is a central tenet of grounded theory and it is
                                        difficult to discuss one without the other. Theoretical
                                        sampling was first developed by Glaser and Strauss (1967) as
                                        a rigorous way of analysing qualitative data to generate
                                        theory. According to Glaser (1992), the researcher jointly
                                        collects data, analyses and codes the data and decides on
                                        which data to collect next in order to develop the theory.
                                        Hence, sampling is controlled by the emerging theory, not as
                                        in most methods where it is the other way round. At an early
                                        stage, theoretical sampling may involve some purposeful
                                        sampling undertaken because the researcher will not have yet
                                        established any guiding concepts or theoretical constructs.
                                        After this, however, sampling is done to test, elaborate and
                                        refine a category, and further sampling to develop
                                        categories and their relationships and interrelationships
                                        (Chenitz and Swanson, 1986). As Coyne (1997) makes clear,
                                        this could even include sampling in different locations to
                                        increase the breadth of the category. Theoretical sampling
                                        includes studying documents, conducting observations or
                                        participating in real events as well as interviewing or
                                        re-interviewing with a reference to emerging categories
                                        (Charmaz, 2013).

Top Tip 9.3
A note of caution needs sounding when planning to use a
                                            theoretical sampling approach. Institutional Review
                                            Boards (IRBs) may be reluctant to give ethical approval
                                            to studies where specific subjects for the research have
                                            not been identified in advance - obviously
                                            because IRBs will want to be certain that participants
                                            are not members of vulnerable groups or may be at risk
                                            from the research. Within theoretical sampling design,
                                            it is necessary to start with initial sampling where
                                            sampling criteria (for example, age, gender, race,
                                            occupation, etc.) are defined. This includes whether you
                                            are sampling people or settings or institutions. Initial
                                            sampling, then, precedes theoretical sampling.



Example of IRB Procedures





Confirming or disconfirming case sampling
The early stages of research are often exploratory as new
                                        patterns and concepts emerge from the data. However, later
                                        stages become confirmatory as themes and ideas are tested to
                                        ensure their viability and robustness. At this stage, the
                                        research may look for confirming cases that add strength to
                                        the analysis and disconfirming cases that challenge it. The
                                        latter are often very important because they provide a
                                        source of alternative interpretations, or may help to
                                        construct boundaries around emerging themes (Patton,
                                        1990).


Opportunistic sampling
Qualitative research is often emergent in the sense that once
                                        fieldwork has begun, new samples may become evident or offer
                                        themselves during the study. Being open to wherever the data
                                        lead is one of the primary strengths of qualitative research
                                        (Patton, 1990). However, there is a downside to this. As
                                        with theoretical sampling, Institutional Review Boards
                                        (IRBs) may be cautious about this type of approach because
                                        it suggests a haphazard and probably unplanned approach to
                                        sampling. As we have seen, IRBs like to judge the
                                        suitability of the sample and whether access to particular
                                        groups meets the ethical principles of the institution.



Snowball sampling
With this approach, the researcher identifies a small number
                                        of subjects who, in turn, identify others in the population.
                                        Snowball sampling is particularly suited to situations where
                                        the focus of a study is a sensitive issue and therefore
                                        requires the knowledge of insiders to locate respondents for
                                        the study (Biernacki and Waldorf, 1981). It is also useful
                                        for research into 'hidden populations', where
                                        there are difficulties in locating, gaining access to and
                                        recruiting participants because no usable sampling frame is
                                        available (Eland-Goossensen, van de Goor, Vollemans,
                                        Hendriks and Garretsen 1997). Although it is self-contained,
                                        this does not mean that it is self-propelled and proceeds
                                        according to its own 'magical' process. As
                                        Biernacki and Waldorf (1981) make clear, snowball sampling
                                        requires the researcher to be actively involved in
                                        developing and controlling the sample's initiation,
                                        progress and termination. Some populations are easy to
                                        locate because the researcher knows where they work or live,
                                        for example, shop workers, dentists, etc. Other populations,
                                        however, because of their low visibility are harder to
                                        locate and contact - for example, corrupt accountants
                                        and people who have injured others in motor accidents.
In terms of finding respondents, certain people may have
                                        great knowledge of a field and its members and should be
                                        recruited as locators of study participants. However, care
                                        must be taken that locators can explain the purposes of the
                                        research in an acceptable and serious way to others
                                        (Biernacki and Waldorf, 1981). Knowledge about a project can
                                        easily become distorted and inaccurate rumours can quickly
                                        develop. Once respondents' accounts are known, it is
                                        then prudent, if possible, to get independent verification
                                        through third parties, particularly from people who know
                                        respondents and can validate the critical aspects of their
                                        accounts. Eland-Goossensen et al. (1997) recommend that the
                                        first stage group of respondents (zero-stage) are selected
                                        randomly if researchers wish the sample to represent a
                                        random sample as closely as possible.



Sampling Using Multiple Purposive Techniques
Sampling using multiple purposive techniques involves using more
                                    than one purposive method in combination, an approach used in
                                    many qualitative studies (Teddlie and Yu, 2007). Hence, a study
                                    might use theoretical sampling to identify cases that it is
                                    hoped will help develop theory about a phenomenon, but then use
                                    extreme or deviant case sampling to locate outlier cases that
                                    may challenge or contradict the emerging theory as part of the
                                    process of testing it. Given that the deviant cases might, say,
                                    involve individuals involved in anti-social or illegal
                                    activities, snowball sampling might also be used.



Convenience Sampling
Convenience sampling is one of the most common sampling strategies,
                                and involves gaining access to the most easily accessible subjects
                                such as fellow students, neighbours or people responding to a
                                newspaper or Internet invitation to complete a survey. So, for
                                example, in determining the attitudes of shoppers, the researcher
                                could interview the first 500 people who enter the shopping mall; or
                                the researcher could knock on doors of houses that are nearby, or at
                                the flats that are on the first floor (rather than higher and more
                                difficult to get to). Hence, as Bajpai (2010) points out, here it is
                                the convenience of the researcher that takes precedence. While it is
                                an approach that is least costly to the researcher in terms of time,
                                effort and money, the downside is that convenience sampling is
                                neither purposeful nor strategic, and therefore has the lowest
                                credibility of all the qualitative sampling designs. However, as
                                Blumberg et al. (2005) suggest, convenience sampling may prove
                                useful to test out ideas about a subject during the exploratory
                                stages of a research project. If the results are overwhelming, it
                                may prove unnecessary to proceed with more sophisticated sampling
                                techniques.


Top Tip 9.4
When conducting research as part of an academic programme,
                                    researchers may often use samples from organizations to which
                                    they know useful contacts (for example, friends or family
                                    members - acting as link gatekeepers). While this is an
                                    example of convenience sampling, efforts can still be made to
                                    link the sampling approach to one of the probability or
                                    non-probability schemes. For example, departments, sections or
                                    individuals in the organization could be randomly selected. Or
                                    each department could be considered as a stratum and individuals
                                    randomly selected within each department (stratified random
                                    sampling). Or, if it was felt that certain departments,
                                    locations or individuals offered information-rich data, then
                                    cases could be purposively selected on the basis of one of the
                                    schemes offered in Figure 9.1. So, for
                                    example, the link gatekeepers could nominate key informants
                                    (snowball sampling) whose responses allow for the generation of
                                    emerging constructs or themes on which new samples are chosen
                                    (theoretical sampling). Later, some outlier views (extreme case
                                    sampling) are sought to challenge the orthodoxy of the
                                    mainstream views to gain a more rounded and holistic picture of
                                    what is happening in the organization.


Activity 9.1
A large multinational computer manufacturing company has two
                                    factories in the UK, one in Eire, five in Japan and three in the
                                    USA. In total it employs 25,000 people worldwide. The Board of
                                    Directors wishes to sponsor a survey of staff attitudes towards
                                    a proposed branding change in the company's name, logo
                                    and marketing profile. It does not wish to poll the entire
                                    workforce since this would resemble a plebiscite that the
                                    company might, then, find itself morally obliged to implement.
                                    To aid decision making flexibility, it decides to use a sample
                                    of 2,500 employees. Examine each of the following scenarios and
                                    decide which constitutes: (a) stratified random sampling; (b)
                                    random sampling; (c) stage sampling; (d) purposive sampling; (e)
                                    convenience sampling.
Five of the company's 11 factories are randomly
                                            selected. A random selection is then made that selects
                                            five departments in each factory and 100 people are
                                            interviewed in these departments in each of the
                                            factories chosen.Ten per cent of staff are chosen from each individual
                                            grade of staff in each factory in the organization.A sample is chosen to ensure an even distribution
                                            between males and females in the sample, and a balance
                                            in terms of grade, age, seniority and years of service
                                            in the organization.A central computer holds details of all employees in the
                                            organization across the globe. A computer program is
                                            written that randomly selects 2,500 names.A Web-based questionnaire is designed for the company
                                            intranet, and an email sent to each employee inviting
                                            them to complete it. Once 2,500 responses have been
                                            received, the website is shut down.
Suggested answers are provided at the end of the chapter.




Mixed Methods Sampling
One of the most important differences between quantitative and
                            qualitative methods is the kind of sampling used (Sandelowski, 2000). As
                            we have seen, quantitative research typically involves the use of some
                            kind of probabilistic sampling with the aim of making statistical
                            inferences, while qualitative research is oriented towards more
                            purposeful sampling to enhance understanding of information-rich cases
                            (Patton, 2002). However, as we saw in Chapter
                            8, quantitative and qualitative methods can be combined in a mixed
                            methods study to generate data that have both breadth and depth (Teddlie
                            and Yu, 2007). Although this combination can be at the level of
                            sampling, collection or analysis (or all of them in a single study) here
                            we will focus at just the sampling level. Table 9.2
                            offers a summary of the characteristics of a mixed methods sampling
                            approach.



Source: Adapted from Teddlie and Yu,
                                2007

But how might quantitative and qualitative sampling approaches be
                            combined? Collins, Onwuegbuzie and Jiao (2006) offer what they call a
                            two-dimensional mixed methods sampling model (see Figure
                                9.6). In the model, quantitative and qualitative methods are
                            used either at the same time (concurrent) or one after the other
                            (sequentially). In a sequential design, quantitative methods can precede
                            qualitative or vice versa and one phase informs the other. However, in
                            concurrent designs, the two phases are conducted separately, the
                            integration of data only occurring at the data analysis stage. According
                            to Collins et al. (2006), another difference is that with both
                            concurrent and sequential approaches, the relationships can either be
                            identical, parallel, nested or multilevel (see Figure
                                9.6). We will look at these in more detail below.

Design 1: Identical
In identical designs, exactly the same members of the population take
                                part in the study at both the quantitative and qualitative stages.
                                The stages are conducted concurrently or sequentially. If
                                concurrently, participants might be interviewed through which rich
                                and detailed data are generated; at the same time, a quantitative
                                survey is used to investigate these same themes with the same sample
                                members. Using both quantitative and qualitative methods would help
                                to validate the findings of whichever method was given precedence.
                                As Figure 9.6 shows, the emphasis
                                could be placed on quantitative methods, or qualitative methods. In
                                sequential designs, either the quantitative or qualitative stages
                                come first. So, for example, if QUAN is dominant, a quantitative
                                survey could be used to identify themes and constructs for further
                                qualitative investigation. But, whatever the approach, the same
                                sample is used for both stages.
Figure 9.6
                                    Two-dimensional mixed methods sampling modelSource: Adapted from Collins et
                                    al., 2006


Design 2: Parallel
In a parallel design, the samples for the quantitative and
                                qualitative elements of the study are different but are drawn from
                                the same underlying population. Parallel designs facilitate the
                                comparison between two or more cases (pairwise sampling design) or
                                sub-group sampling design (Onwuegbuzie and Leech, 2007). In pairwise
                                designs, all the selected cases are treated as a set, and their
                                'voice' is compared to all other cases, one at a time
                                in order to understand the underlying phenomena. Pairwise sampling
                                can arise in any of the qualitative sampling schemes outlined in Figure 9.1. In contrast, in
                                sub-group sampling designs, comparisons are made between sub-groups
                                (for example, women vs. men) that are extracted from the same level
                                of study (for example, business mentors). According to Onwuegbuzie
                                and Leech (2007), comparing the voices of sub-groups can help
                                prevent researchers from assuming that their findings apply to all
                                groups in the sample. The commitment to generalize across all groups
                                is often too dominant in the researcher's focus. Collins et
                                al. (2006) describe research by Scherer and Lane (1997) who
                                conducted a sequential study using parallel samples to examine the
                                needs of disabled people towards assistive technologies. First of
                                all, a quantitative survey was used to identify the assistive
                                products that they perceived to need improvement. In the qualitative
                                phase, another group of consumers participated in focus groups to
                                further assess the quality of products identified in the
                                quantitative phase.



Design 3: Nested
In a nested design, the sample members used in one phase of the study
                                represent a sub-set of those chosen for the other part component of
                                the study - for example, key informants of the full sample.
                                The sub-sampling often takes the form of theoretical sampling, which
                                involves sampling additional people, events, documents and incidents
                                in order to develop emerging themes and to identify conceptual
                                boundaries (Charmaz, 2013). The idea is to refine ideas not to
                                increase the size of the sample. Hence, a nested design is a
                                hallmark of grounded theory (Glaser and Strauss, 1967) and a popular
                                approach used by grounded theorists. Hence, in a study measuring
                                'burnout' amongst senior executives, 100 might be
                                asked to complete a number of psychometric tests. In the qualitative
                                part of the study, 10 are selected for semi-structured interviews.
                                Although one phase follows another, this is still a concurrent
                                design since one phase does not inform the other.


Design 4: Multilevel
In a multilevel design, two or more sets of samples are obtained from
                                different levels, or populations, for the study. For example, a
                                researcher might be interested in the different perception of
                                minimum wage legislation between senior managers and low paid
                                workers. Although in principle the samples could be selected from
                                different organizations, in practice the two are usually
                                conditionally related, that is, once a group of low paid workers is
                                selected, the other level (their managers) is chosen.



Sampling Hard To Reach Populations
A growing number of hard to reach populations has emerged, often due to
                            the threatening nature of the specific trait that characterizes their
                            members (Faugier and Sargeant, 1997). Such populations include
                            marginalized groups including homeless people, prostitutes, drug addicts
                            and individuals who are incarcerated, institutionalized or cognitively
                            impaired. As Lee (1993) comments, the less visible the activity, the
                            harder it is to sample. This lack of visibility often has a number of
                            implications for any thought a researcher might have of using random
                            sampling. Firstly, the potential legal sanctions faced by respondents
                            can make them reluctant to cooperate; secondly, a very large sample is
                            needed to elicit sufficient data (a 1 per cent prevalence rate would
                            require a sample of 10,000 subjects to yield 100 subjects who possess
                            the trait being studied); thirdly, some populations might be missed
                            because they are not living in stable communities. Quantitative studies
                            may also yield limited understanding when exploring new fields or
                            phenomena. Conversely, as we have seen, snowball sampling can be
                            particularly effective in locating hidden or hard to find populations.
                            As Faugier and Sargeant (1997) point out, in accessing hard to reach
                            populations, fieldworkers often concentrate on the difficulties faced
                            rather than the ways in which this kind of ethnographic research can
                            offer special advantages.
From a practical perspective, researchers accessing hard to reach
                            populations often have to do so via gatekeepers such as institutions or
                            agencies. Once access is granted, institutional rules may limit access
                            to participants in unexpected ways. For some populations that are deemed
                            to be vulnerable, many Institutional Review Boards (IRBs) do not permit
                            direct recruitment or snowball sampling. Researchers are therefore
                            required to post recruitment flyers or make group presentations, with
                            participants contacting the researchers if they are interested in taking
                            part. Abrams (2010) also raises some pertinent questions when it comes
                            to screening within hard to reach populations. IRBs may require
                            researchers to implement standard screening consent scripts, where
                            potential participants respond to a set of screening questions. The
                            kinds of questions posed might not be understood by some vulnerable groups or might be found
                            offensive - particularly if questions include reporting on
                            criminal or anti-social behaviour.
While ethical considerations are important for all types of research they
                            may raise particular concerns when dealing with hard to reach
                            populations, given that sometimes these populations may constitute
                            deviant or marginalized groups where the researcher may witness illegal
                            activities. Also the vulnerability of some groups may make the power
                            differential between them and the researcher all the greater -
                            for example, the researcher's greater knowledge and the
                            group's lack of insight into how the research may affect them
                            (Faugier and Sargeant, 1997). Hence, they may be less able to judge the
                            purpose of the study and anticipate the risks they might be taking in
                            participating in it. Confidentiality is paramount.

Case Study 9.1

Sampling Under-Represented Groups
Hossein (2013) reports on a study she made amongst people she
                                    terms 'banker ladies', people who live in the
                                    slums and shanty towns of developing countries who provide loans
                                    to local people. The actions of corporate bankers are well
                                    covered in the academic literature. However, poor Black women in
                                    the slums are usually excluded from financial assistance
                                    programmes, even those giving small grants. Hence, low income
                                    entrepreneurs have reacted by organizing community-based
                                    programmes that listen to the needs of people, collect their
                                    savings and lend money, taking into account local social
                                    priorities.
Hossein's sample comprised 491 people in Jamaica, Guyana
                                    and Haiti, in nine low-income communities. The bulk of methods
                                    focused on gaining the perspectives of the micro-business women.
                                    But the focus groups and interviews also included other
                                    stakeholders such as bankers, civil society experts, community
                                    activists, microfinance practitioners, policy makers and
                                    academics. Gaining access to slums can be politically sensitive.
                                    So, as well as the interviews and focus groups, Hossein also
                                    made use of information from national newspapers in all three
                                    countries, as well as reports and internal documents. As a
                                    result of her study, Hossein (2013) is able to report that the
                                    strong voices of Black women emerge as testimony to their
                                    activity in the social economy.


Source: Adapted from Hossein, 2013



Activity 9.2
Consider Hossein's sampling strategy. To what extent do you
                                think that being a female researcher may have helped her gain access
                                and the trust of the banker ladies? As well as sampling this
                                under-represented group, how important was it to access the views of
                                other stakeholders, including bankers?


Top Tip 9.5
Ensure that the sampling strategy adopted, including its limitations,
                                is fully described in research proposals and the outputs emanating
                                from the research. Be clear about whose perspectives may have been
                                excluded from the research, based on the sampling decisions taken.
                                Also include information on the barriers and problems encountered
                                during sampling and how these were addressed.




Sample Size - How Much Is Enough?
There is no simple answer to this question since it depends on a number
                            of considerations, not least of which are time and cost. All we can say
                            with any certainty is that increasing the size of the sample usually
                            increases its precision (note we did not say it guaranteed precision),
                            since larger samples are more likely to be representative of the
                            underlying population they are seeking to measure. As sampling size
                            increases, sampling error decreases. Certainly, precision gains are
                            noticeable when increasing sample size from 50 to 100 or from 100 to
                            150. However, after a certain point, often around 1,000, while precision
                            rates increase, they do so at a much smaller rate. But how do we
                            calculate the sample size for a particular research study? The formula
                            below offers a solution where:
N = the minimum sample sizez = degree of confidence requiredSD = the standard deviation, andE = acceptable amount of sample error

                                
                                    
                                        N
                                        
                                        =
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                
                                                  z
                                                  2
                                                
                                                
                                                ×
                                                
                                                S
                                                
                                                  D
                                                  2
                                                
                                            
                                            E
                                        
                                    
                                
                            



Calculating Sample Size


We can make some decisions about some of these elements. For example, we
                            could choose a level of confidence (that the estimate is accurate)
                            required for the research, ranging, typically, from being 90 to 99 per
                            cent certain - see Table 9.3. Next, we could factor in
                            the acceptable amount of sample error that can be tolerated, plus or
                            minus the true percentage - say, 5 or 10 per cent.



But this still does not give us the standard deviation. We could get this
                            either by using the results of previous surveys (assuming that these
                            were available), by guessing or by conducting a small pilot study. Given
                            that previous surveys may not be readily available and that guessing is
                            nearly always a bad idea, this leaves us with a pilot study.





Worked Example 9.1
Let us say that we are conducting a survey among a population of
                                2,000 workers in a large assembly plant. What is the minimum size of
                                sample we need to achieve? We will assume that we want a confidence
                                level of 95 per cent certainty, with 5 per cent as an acceptable
                                amount of sample error. We conduct a small pilot study among 10
                                respondents which yields a set of data as presented in Table 9.4.
Conducting the calculation we get:

                                    
                                        
                                            N
                                            
                                            =
                                            
                                            
                                                
                                                  1
                                                  .
                                                  9
                                                  
                                                  6
                                                  2
                                                  
                                                  
                                                  ×
                                                  
                                                  1
                                                  5
                                                  .
                                                  8
                                                  
                                                  6
                                                  2
                                                  
                                                
                                                
                                                  2
                                                  5
                                                
                                            
                                            
                                            =
                                            
                                            3
                                            8
                                            .
                                            6
                                            5
                                        
                                    
                                



However, if you find the use of formulas difficult, Bartlett, Kotrlik and
                            Higgins (2001) offer a generalized table for calculating sample size
                            which is presented in Table 9.5. We can see that as the
                            population increases, so does the required sample, but at a diminishing
                            rate. For categorical data a 5 per cent margin of error is acceptable,
                            while for the continuous data the figure is 3 per cent (Krejcie and
                            Morgan, 1970). For studies where the margin of error is different to
                            these, the appropriate sample size must be calculated as in the formula
                            above. Bartlett et al. (2001) suggest that an alpha of.05 is acceptable
                            for most research studies.



Roscoe (1975) recommends that
                            most behavioural research statistical analyses should work with samples
                            of not less than 30. However, in experimental research with tight
                            controls (such as matched-pair designs), samples may be as small as 10
                            or 20. But in most ex post facto research (where variables are not
                            manipulated) and experimental research (where variables are manipulated)
                            samples of 30 or more are recommended. Roscoe (1975) also maintains that
                            where samples contain sub-samples then the above rules for sample size
                            should also apply to these sub-samples. So, for example, if the sample
                            is divided into males and females for an experimental design, then both
                            groups should contain a minimum sample of 30. For other kinds of
                            research, for example, multiple regression, the sample size should be at
                            least 10 times larger than the number of variables being considered. In
                            descriptive research the sample should be 10 per cent of the population
                            (Gay and Diehl, 1992). However, in pilot or exploratory studies, a
                            sample size of 10 to 30 is usually sufficient (Isaac and Michael,
                            1995).
A common fallacy in qualitative research is that numbers are unimportant
                            in ensuring the adequacy of a sampling strategy (Sandelowski, 1995). In
                            practice, sample sizes should be not too large so that it is difficult
                            to extract thick, rich descriptions and not too small that it becomes
                            difficult to achieve data saturation (Flick, 2009; Morse, 1991),
                            theoretical saturation (Strauss and Corbin, 1990) or informational
                            redundancy (Lincoln and Guba, 1994). Yet as Neergaard (2007) comments,
                            sampling often stops prematurely due to the inexperience of the
                            researcher, or lack of time or resources. However, saying that a sample
                            should not be too large and not too small gives us less than a total
                            solution. Part of the answer comes at the sampling planning stage. We
                            saw in the discussion on stratified purposive sampling above that sample
                            size increases with the number of independent variables used in the
                            study. Table 9.1, for example, shows that
                            with variables such as size of organization, type of ownership, type of
                            CSR policy and location, gives us 16 cells in the sampling table. Of
                            course, we know that in any sampling table some cells may be either
                            theoretically or empirically difficult or impossible to fill, or both.
                            However, the basic lesson is there - increasing the number of
                            independent variables used in a study will increase the sample size
                            needed. Figure 9.1 is also based on only
                            one case per cell. Onwuegbuzie and Leech (2007) caution that using even
                            two cases per cell may not be enough, as it may be difficult to reach
                            data saturation if at least one of the cases is atypical. Onwuegbuzie
                            and Leech (2007) recommend that researchers avoid comparing more than
                            four sub-groups for phenomenological studies, and more than seven
                            sub-groups (using Creswell's 2009 criteria) for grounded
                            studies.

Top Tip 9.6
A common mistake made by novice researchers is the claims they make
                                for their research when using small samples. In many studies it is
                                simply not possible or practical to make use of random samples. So
                                be honest about the kinds of claims you can make for your findings
                                based on the size of sample you have gained access to. Instead of
                                spurious claims to generalization, it is often better to highlight
                                some of the positive features of your sample (if they exist), such
                                as the range of people included, the good response rate and the high
                                level of collaboration received from respondents. This might, for
                                example, include comments from respondents on how much they enjoyed
                                completing the questionnaire or taking part in the interview.



Using Small Samples as Pilot Studies






Summary
The sampling of participants and sources is one of the key
                                    components of any research study.In quantitative research, sampling primarily involves the use of
                                    probability sampling techniques which involve the selection of a
                                    relatively large number of units from the population.Probability sampling includes random, stratified, cluster
                                    sampling and sampling using multiple probability
                                    techniques.In qualitative research, sampling primarily involves
                                    non-probability samples, the aim of which is to select
                                    respondents and data that are likely to generate robust, rich
                                    and deep levels of understanding.Non-probability sampling includes purposive, convenience and
                                    mixed methods sampling approaches.Hard to reach populations are often accessed using snowball
                                    sampling approaches often adopted via gatekeepers such as
                                    institutions or agencies.The sample size should be not too large so that it is difficult
                                    to extract thick, rich descriptions and not too small that it
                                    becomes difficult to achieve data saturation.The limitations of the sampling strategy adopted should be
                                    acknowledged in research proposals and outputs emanating from
                                    the research, including whose perspectives may have been
                                    excluded from the research.

Review Questions
Under what circumstances would you recommend (a) a
                                        probability sample; (b) a non-probability sample?Why do Institutional Review Boards tend to favour proposals
                                        that specify their intended sampling frame in advance? What
                                        implications does this have for theoretical sampling?Why is convenience sampling both frequently used yet is also
                                        one of the least strategic or purposeful qualitative
                                        sampling methods?What benefits do mixed methods sampling offer researchers?
                                        What are the potential drawbacks?If you were to adopt one method for sampling hard to reach
                                        populations such as drug-users, criminals or social
                                        deviants, what would it be? Explain your reasons.



Further Reading
Daniel, J. (2010) Sampling Essentials: Practical Guidelines for Making
                                Sampling Choices. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage. Designed for the
                            non-technical researcher, this quite comprehensive text includes details
                            on selecting sample size and type.
Emmel, N. (2013) Sampling and Choosing Cases in Qualitative
                                Research. London: Sage. Using a realist approach, this book
                            critically evaluates widely used sampling strategies. Drawing on
                            international case studies from across the social sciences the author
                            explains why it is not the size of a sample that matters, it is how
                            cases are used to interpret and explain that is important.
Henry, G.T. (1990) Practical Sampling. Newbury Park, CA: Sage. A
                            short but very accessible book that deals with both probability and
                            non-probability sampling and presents some useful case studies as
                            illustration.
Lohr, S.L. (2010) Sampling: Design and Analysis, 2nd edn. Boston,
                            MA: Brookes/Cole. Starts with the basics of sampling design including
                            simple probability sampling, stratified and cluster sampling, before
                            exploring complex surveys and discussing strategies for
                            non-response.


Journal Resources
Deb, M. and Chavali, K. (2009) 'The study of gender differences in
                            investment behaviour', Asia-Pacific Business Review, 5(3):
                            45-55. Describes how a sample of 200 respondents was stratified
                            by gender, with 100 assigned to a male group and 100 to a female group.
                            People entering a bank were assigned to one of these groups, based on
                            three selection criteria. Once each of the groups reached the desired
                            total, sampling stopped.
Moore, A., Parahoo, K. and Fleming, P. (2011) 'Managers'
                            understanding of workplace health promotion within small and
                            medium-sized enterprises: A phenomenological study', Health
                                Education Journal, 70(1): 92-101. Managers are
                            purposively selected on the basis that they are (a) based in a range of
                            private SME businesses; (b) hold senior positions (for example: owner,
                            senior manager, human resources manager), and (c) have the power to make
                            strategic decisions.
Teddlie, C. and Yu, F. (2007) 'Mixed methods sampling: A typology
                            with examples', Journal of Mixed Methods Research, 1(1):
                            70-100. Presents a discussion of sampling techniques in mixed
                            methods designs and guidelines for mixed methods sampling.


Suggested Answers For Activity 9.1
Stage sampling. But note that if the factories vary in size,
                                    taking 100 people might constitute a different proportion of
                                    each factory. The employees in very large plants, for example,
                                    might hold different views to those in the smaller ones. Hence,
                                    you might want to weight the results.Stratified random sampling.Purposive sampling.Random sampling.Convenience sampling.

Don't forget to visit the companion website at https://study.sagepub.com/grayresearchbusiness for the
                                following resources which support this chapter:

















10 Designing Descriptive And
                        Analytical Surveys For Business

Chapter Introduction

Chapter Outline
What is a survey?Types of surveyStages in the survey processSelecting a survey methodConducting a staff opinion surveyReducing sources of errorEthics and good practice in survey design


Keywords
Descriptive surveysAnalytical surveysSurvey designPostal questionnairesOnline questionnairesTelephone surveysStaff opinion surveysSampling errorEthics



Icon Key







Author Video







Chapter Objectives
After reading this chapter you will be able to:
Distinguish between descriptive and analytical surveys.Describe and apply different approaches to both analytical
                                        and descriptive surveys.Select alternative survey data collection methods.Implement special approaches to maximize response rates to
                                        organizational surveys.Take steps to counteract some of the limitations of survey
                                        design.



In this chapter we examine surveys, today one of the most popular
                            methodologies and widely used in the business and commercial worlds.
                            Surveys are described by Fink (2002b) as a system for collecting
                            information to describe, compare or explain knowledge, attitudes and
                            behaviour. They are a common methodology in research because they allow
                            for the collection of significant amounts of data from a sizeable
                            population. But many surveys go further than this, looking for
                            associations between social, economic and psychological variables and
                            behaviour. Market researchers, for example, may be interested in how
                            changes in income level and status affect people's spending
                            patterns. The results of surveys, whether commissioned by organizations,
                            companies or the government, are frequently quoted in the media. Most
                            surveys are conducted using a questionnaire, but structured observation
                            and structured interviews may also be used. Unlike many other research
                            methodologies, surveys are often a team effort, involving a division of
                            labour between survey designers, interviewers and those who capture the
                            data onto computer files prior to analysis.



Survey Research


Surveys fall into two main categories: analytical and
                                descriptive. Analytical surveys take many of the features of
                            experimental, deductive research and so place an emphasis on reliability
                            of data and statistical control of variables, sample size, etc. It is
                            hoped that the rigour of these controls will allow for the
                            generalization of the results. In contrast, descriptive surveys tend to
                            use an inductive approach, often using open-ended questions to explore
                            perspectives. Descriptive surveys may be quite ethnographic in
                            character. If a theory does emerge, it may be tested, subsequently,
                            using more structured research instruments. This chapter, then, looks at
                            how surveys are planned, the types of designs available, some of the
                            special features of organizational surveys, as well as some limitations
                            of survey methodology.


What Is A Survey?
According to Sapsford (2006), a survey is a detailed and quantified
                            description of a population - a precise map or a precise
                            measurement of potential. Surveys involve the systematic
                            collecting of data, whether this is by interview, questionnaire or
                            observation methods, so at the very heart of surveys lies the importance
                            of standardization. Precise samples are selected for surveying, and
                            attempts are made to standardize and eliminate errors from survey data
                            gathering tools. The very first survey, the Doomsday Book of 1085, was largely an exercise in
                            counting (people, ownership of land and livestock, etc.) but modern
                            surveys are usually exercises in measurement (often of attitudes). They
                            attempt to identify something about a population, that is, a set of
                            objects about which we wish to make generalizations. A population is
                            frequently a set of people, but organizations, institutions or even
                            countries can comprise the unit of analysis. Since populations often
                            tend to be fairly large, and therefore time-consuming and expensive to
                            survey, we tend to collect data from samples, as we saw in Chapter 9, a portion or subset of
                            the population.



Survey Research


Conducting surveys is now a thriving business, and being on the receiving
                            end of surveys is often a component of modern life. Companies make use
                            of surveys to measure customer attitudes towards their products and
                            services. Educational establishments survey (evaluate) student opinions
                            about courses and programmes as part of their quality assurance
                            processes. Governments and politicians pay close attention to surveys of
                            public opinion to gauge the mood of the populace on issues such as
                            transport, education, health, the environment, and, of course, voting
                            intentions. For example, in 1982 the Policy Study Institute obtained UK
                            government funding for a national survey of ethnic minorities, using a
                            sample of 5,000 adults (Hakim, 2000). The survey considered the extent
                            and causes of 'racial disadvantage' in relation to
                            residential segregation, housing, education, employment and
                            healthcare.
A particular form of survey, a census, is a study of every member
                            of a given population and the Census is an official survey of a
                            country's entire population - in the case of the UK, one
                            that is carried out every 10 years. A census provides essential data for
                            government policy makers and planners, but is also useful, for example,
                            to businesses that want to know about trends in consumer behaviour
                            - such as ownership of durable goods, and demand for
                            services.



Census Example


An increasingly common focus of surveys is employees' attitudes.
                            Hartley (2001) reports research showing that in the USA employee surveys
                            are becoming an integral part of human resources strategy. In the UK, in
                            large firms employing over 5,000 people, nearly half have reported using
                            employee surveys. Surveys, then, have moved from being used as
                            barometers of attitudes and opinions, to constituting essential links to
                            business strategy and organizational change.


Types Of Survey
As we have seen, surveys fall into two broad categories: descriptive and
                            analytical.

Descriptive Surveys
Descriptive surveys are designed to measure the characteristics of a
                                particular population, either at a fixed point in time, or
                                comparatively over time. They are designed to measure what
                                occurred, rather than why. Descriptive surveys are used in a
                                wide range of areas such as market research, public opinion polling,
                                voting intention surveys and media research (ratings surveys).
                                Surveys of this kind have often been used to identify the scale and
                                nature of social problems, including poverty, crime and
                                health-related issues. Hence, descriptive surveys can be the source
                                and stimulus for policy changes and social action.

Characteristics Of Descriptive Surveys
While descriptive surveys are generally inductive in approach, it
                                    would be entirely wrong to assume they are devoid of theory.
                                    Indeed, reference to relevant theories may be necessary before
                                        the research can
                                    be formulated. De Vaus (2002) goes further, arguing that good
                                    description is the basis of sound theory. Unless something is
                                    described accurately and thoroughly, it cannot be explained.
                                    Illuminating descriptions can highlight puzzles that need to be
                                    solved, and thus provide the inspiration for the construction of
                                    theories. Furthermore, the identification of problems can
                                    provide the cornerstone for action.
Descriptive surveys are often undertaken to ascertain attitudes,
                                    values and opinions. For example, a survey might examine staff
                                    views about whether the organization's customers
                                        seem content with the service they are receiving.
                                    Indeed, the working practices of organizations would be a
                                    typical subject for descriptive surveys. But as Black (1993)
                                    notes, there may be differences between the opinions found
                                    through a survey, which is a description of people's
                                        perceptions, and the actual reality of practice. In
                                    other words, people may articulate a particular view, but in
                                    practice behave differently. Hence, caution needs to be
                                    exercised in drawing conclusions from such surveys. Case Study
                                    10.1 offers some cautionary tales from workplace surveys and
                                    offers some guidance on how to improve them.



Descriptive Research Examples



Case Study 10.1

Improving Workplace Surveys
It is not always easy to conduct accurate workplace
                                            surveys. Morrel-Samuels (2002) reports on numerous
                                            surveys that failed to detect the real views of
                                            respondents and explains why. In 1997, for example, the
                                            United Parcel Service in the USA conducted an annual
                                            survey and found that employee satisfaction rates were
                                            high. Just 10 months later, however, the company was hit
                                            by a costly strike because the survey had failed to
                                            uncover bitter resentment about the proliferation of
                                            part-time jobs.
Morrel-Samuels suggests that ways to improve workplace
                                            surveys include:
Ask questions about observable behaviour rather
                                                  than thoughts or motives. Many surveys, for
                                                  example, ask respondents to speculate about the
                                                  character traits or thoughts of other individuals.
                                                  For example: 'Do leaders understand the
                                                  business and the marketplace?' Responses,
                                                  however, can be biased by whether the respondent
                                                  likes or dislikes the person being evaluated. A
                                                  better question would be: 'How often do
                                                  leaders resolve customer complaints quickly and
                                                  efficiently?', since this links the
                                                  question to discrete events.Include items that can be independently
                                                  verified. For example, including some open,
                                                  qualitative questions in a quantitative survey can
                                                  help to validate the quantitative results if the
                                                  qualitative comments correlate with the
                                                  quantitative data. Or check survey responses
                                                  against other objective measures. Hence, a
                                                  manager's leadership skills might be
                                                  correlated with staff retention data in that
                                                  person's department.Keep sections in the questionnaire unlabelled
                                                  and on the same page. Respondents tend to answer
                                                  in a similar way questions they think relate to
                                                  each other. Hence, their responses are more
                                                  consistent and the survey more internally
                                                  reliable.Design sections to contain a similar number of
                                                  questions, and each question a similar number of
                                                  words. The larger the number of questions in a
                                                  section, the higher respondents' scores
                                                  tend to be. Similarly, longer worded questions
                                                  tend to score higher, regardless of what is being
                                                  evaluated.Place demographic questions at the end of the
                                                  survey. Such questions can be vital during data
                                                  analysis, but if not carefully chosen, may depress
                                                  response rates. Morrel-Samuels refers to a company
                                                  survey that asked respondents whether they
                                                  belonged to a union; most union employees stopped
                                                  completing the survey at this point. They
                                                  reportedly feared that the data would be used to
                                                  make comparisons with non-union employees, and
                                                  that this would later weaken the union in contract
                                                  negotiations.Avoid terms that have strong associations.
                                                  Morrel-Samuels relates the example of a
                                                  manufacturer of photographic equipment that asked
                                                  in a survey whether their team leader had
                                                  'taken bold strides' and 'has
                                                  a strong grasp' of issues. However, such
                                                  metaphors are counter-productive because they
                                                  trigger associations favouring males whose stride
                                                  length and grip strength, on average, exceed those
                                                  of women. Hence, males tend to have inflated
                                                  scores on these items.Change the wording in about a third of questions
                                                  so that the desired answer is negative. Surveys
                                                  often suffer from bias, because respondents have a
                                                  tendency to agree with questions, something that
                                                  becomes more pronounced as they proceed through
                                                  the survey. A way of overcoming this is to
                                                  periodically introduce questions that are phrased
                                                  negatively. So, instead of 'In my
                                                  department, we do a good job at resolving
                                                  conflicts' the item would read 'In
                                                  my department we do a poor job at resolving
                                                  conflicts'.Create a response scale with numbers and words
                                                  only at each end. Morrel-Samuels mentions a global
                                                  computer company's annual performance
                                                  appraisal form that asked managers to evaluate
                                                  employees by ticking one of five boxes labelled
                                                  'unacceptable', 'does not
                                                  meet expectations', 'meets
                                                  expectations', 'exceeds
                                                  expectations', 'far exceeds
                                                  expectations'. But the problem here is that
                                                  these words will mean different things to
                                                  different people. As Morrel-Samuel comments, while
                                                  the labels might be in plausible order, the
                                                  distance between each pair of classifications on
                                                  the continuum remains unknown. It is better to
                                                  create a scale with only two word labels, one at
                                                  each end, including a box for 'not
                                                  applicable' (see Figure
                                                  10.1).
Figure
                                                  10.1 Example of item that offers a
                                                numerical continuum between two well-understood word
                                                choices



On The Web 10.1
Go to the StatPac website at:

http://www.statpac.com/online-surveys/sample_online_surveys.htm

Explore examples of surveys on subjects such as:
Customer satisfactionEmployee satisfactionCustomer service commitment




From Descriptive To Analytical Surveys
Often, descriptive surveys might only be the precursor to more
                                    detailed analytical studies. For instance, a descriptive survey
                                    of a country's management attitudes towards currency
                                    integration with a trading block might reveal the strength of
                                    feelings one way or another. But we might quickly come
                                    face-to-face with the 'so what?' question. If a
                                    trend or attitude has been described, what caused it? As
                                    Saunders et al. (2012) make clear, descriptive studies in
                                    business and management research have their place, but they are
                                    generally a means to an end rather than an end in
                                    themselves.
In practice, what determines whether a survey is analytical or
                                    descriptive is often the size of the sample. If the sample is
                                    relatively small, and the research deals with relationships
                                    between multiple variables, it is unlikely that any associations
                                    found will be statistically significant. In these circumstances,
                                    an analytical survey would be of little value so the survey will
                                    be largely descriptive.

Top Tip 10.1
If you are about to undertake a survey, say as part of a
                                        dissertation or project, go to your research questions. Is
                                        your focus mainly on 'What' is happening? If
                                        so, ask yourself (or your supervisor!) whether you should
                                        also be asking 'How' or 'Why'
                                        type questions. For example, if you have designed a survey
                                        dealing with employee attitudes towards an
                                        organization's policy for promoting diversity in
                                        management grades, this might tell you what people think.
                                        But also delving into why people hold certain views adds a
                                        layer of analysis.




Analytical Surveys
As has been pointed out, analytical surveys attempt to test a theory
                                in the field, their main purpose being to explore and test
                                associations between variables. As Oppenheim (1992) shows,
                                analytical surveys take on typical characteristics of experimental
                                research when it comes to dealing with these variables. As was shown
                                in Chapter 6, the survey will have
                                to distinguish between:
Dependent variables - the subject of the
                                        research, the gains or losses produced by the impact of the
                                        research study.Independent variables - the
                                        'causes' of the changes in the dependent
                                        variables that will be manipulated or observed, then
                                        measured by the analytical survey.Uncontrolled variables - including error
                                        variables that may confound the results of the study. It is
                                        hoped that such variables are randomly distributed so any
                                        confounding effects are limited.
Controlling extraneous variables can be achieved in a number of ways
                                through careful planning of the survey. They can be controlled, for
                                example, through exclusion (such as only using females in the
                                study so as to eliminate the possible confounding effects of
                                gender). Variables can also be controlled by holding them
                                    constant (for example, by interviewing respondents on the
                                same day so as to eliminate the effects of time). Randomizing can
                                also assist in controlling extraneous variables, since, if the
                                sample is truly random, any extraneous variables should, in all
                                probability, be represented in the sample in the same proportions as
                                in the population being studied.


On The Web 10.2
Take a look at the list of business surveys conducted by the
                                    Office for National Statistics at:

https://www.ons.gov.uk/surveys/informationforbusinesses/businesssurveys/staticlist

Note the sample sizes and frequency of the surveys. Are they
                                    cross-sectional or longitudinal?




Stages In The Survey Process
Before conducting a survey it is essential to understand the phases and
                            steps involved. Conducting a survey is much more than just a process of
                            designing a questionnaire and collecting data. Czaja and Blair (2005)
                            suggest a five-stage process (see Figure
                                10.2).

Stage 1: Survey Design And Preliminary Planning
As with most research strategies, the first step involves the
                                specification of the central research questions that the survey
                                needs to address. These might be articulated in a number of
                                different ways, for example:
A hypothesis: Industrial workers are more likely to
                                        favour 'blood sports' than service-sector
                                        workers.A causal hypothesis: Members of health and fitness
                                        clubs are less likely to have time off work.A description: What proportion of people believe that
                                        company profits should be shared amongst employees?
Some research questions may focus on the views or actions of
                                individuals, others on groups, organizations, networks or
                                businesses. In formulating research questions it is important that
                                they achieve a sense of specificity and focus. De Vaus (2002)
                                suggests that this can be achieved by asking the following
                                questions:
What is the time frame for the survey? Do we need to
                                        know about the issue now, in the past, or do we need to
                                        project trends into the future?What is the geographical location of the research? Is
                                        it local, regional, national or international?Is the focus of the research broad and general, or does it
                                        need to compare and specify patterns among
                                        sub-groups? For example, in looking at absentee levels in a
                                        country, are we also interested in a breakdown of data by
                                        region, sector, industry or gender?What aspect of the topic is of interest? If, for
                                        example, the research issue is e-commerce, are we interested
                                        in trends in its growth, companies who do (and who do not)
                                        use e-commerce and why, or what kinds of software platform
                                        firms are building their e-commerce Web system on?How abstract is the research interest? Is the main
                                        focus of the research on the gathering of raw data, say, the
                                        sale of expensive consumer durables, or what this might
                                        reveal about general consumer confidence and standards of
                                        living?



Survey Checklist


Figure 10.2
                                    Stages in the survey planning processSource: Adapted from Czaja and
                                    Blair, 2005
In writing research questions for surveys, it is important to
                                establish the research's frame of reference. Hence, if we
                                find that in a customer satisfaction survey, 56 per cent of
                                customers expressed themselves as 'broadly satisfied'
                                with the service they were receiving, what are we to make of this
                                figure? Furthermore, whatever the figure, individuals may interpret
                                it differently. It would be helpful to know before we start the
                                survey, the benchmark criteria for 'good',
                                'bad' and 'indifferent' performance. One
                                way of achieving this is by benchmarking against other companies in
                                the field. If we found, for example, that no industry competitor had achieved a
                                satisfaction rate above 40 per cent, then any figure above 50 per
                                cent would look relatively good.
Collecting benchmark data, of course, is not always a simple
                                exercise. If we need data on competitors they are unlikely to give
                                it to someone working in a rival organization. There are a number of
                                possible solutions, including the use of:
Overseas organizations. Concentrate on overseas
                                        organizations who are in the same business or service but
                                        not in direct competition (due to geographical distance).
                                        Sometimes organizations might have websites that offer data
                                        on their mission, structure, products and services, etc.
                                        There may be articles about the organization in trade or
                                        professional magazines or journals.Organizations in different industries that share similar
                                        problems or have business activities in common. A
                                        researcher, for example, working for an airport might
                                        research customer satisfaction data for bus or train
                                        companies. The challenge here is to show how the lessons
                                        from a related but different industry can be transferred to
                                        the target area for the research.
Whatever the focus of the study, one of the key issues is the
                                selection of the sample (see Chapter
                                    9). For example, in surveying attitudes of residents towards
                                a city transport system, do we contact those who live in the city
                                centre, in the suburbs, or also include people who commute into the
                                city from outlying towns? What age groups do we use? Do we only
                                count people who are 18 years old and above? What about young
                                adolescents, say, above the age of 14 who also use the transport
                                system? There needs to be an age cut-off point somewhere, so it is
                                sensible to limit the sample to those people who are capable of
                                providing accurate information.
Another important issue is the selection of the sampling
                                frame, that is, the source or sources that include the
                                population members from which the sample is to be selected. For
                                general population surveys, the most common source for the sampling
                                frame is telephone directories. If we were to conduct a survey of
                                teaching staff in a university, the sampling frame would be the
                                names held on the human resources department's records. As we
                                saw in Chapter 9, of central
                                importance is the question of how much the sampling frame is
                                representative of the eligible population. If we take the example of
                                telephone directories, obviously not everyone has a telephone.
                                Telephone ownership tends to be lower for poorer social groups and
                                in certain localities, and these people may hold different views
                                from those of telephone-owning households. How much bias does this
                                generate in a survey? Czaja and Blair (2005) suggest that most
                                researchers are not too concerned by this threat because
                                non-telephone households are proportionately so small (at least in
                                most industrialized countries).



Sampling Frame


At this preliminary design stage other factors that need to be
                                considered are the budget for the study and the time available. In
                                general, the cheapest form of survey is through using mail, then
                                telephone surveys. Face-to-face surveys are the most expensive,
                                particularly for large-scale studies, when interviewers will have to
                                be recruited and trained. This is also the stage at which careful
                                thought needs to be given to how the data are to be collected,
                                captured and analysed.
Now we come to instrument design. Here, if you are fortunate, there
                                may already be validated scales available. For example, if you were
                                investigating the relationship between job satisfaction and a
                                dependent variable such as work performance, you might consider
                                using the Warr, Cook and Wall (1979) scale for measuring job
                                satisfaction. This scale has been used in many studies and has a
                                coefficient alpha of 0.85-0.88 and test-retest
                                correlation coefficient of 0.63 for a 6-month period (Warr et al.,
                                1979). There are often, however, a number of scales available, some
                                of which might be more relevant for your own study.



Job Satisfaction




Top Tip 10.2
You need to select a scale that most closely matches what you are
                                    trying to measure. You then need to show evidence, from either
                                    the developers of the scale, or subsequent studies, of the
                                    scale's validity and reliability. If a pre-developed
                                    scale or instrument is not available, you will need to develop
                                    one yourself. This will mean following as closely as possible
                                    the guidance given on instrument design in other chapters of
                                    this book.



Stage 2: Pre-Testing
This stage involves the testing or piloting of elements such as the
                                sampling frame (is it representative of the target population?),
                                survey questions (especially if you have designed them yourself
                                rather than using validated scales) and data collection tools. It is
                                likely that several drafts of the research tool will have to be
                                tested before a satisfactory version is reached. If resources
                                permit, focus groups can be used to discuss the validity of
                                individual questions, or to evaluate the overall design of the
                                survey. If interviewers are going to be used, they will require
                                training and debriefing to ascertain whether the training has been
                                successful.

Top Tip 10.3
In running a pilot survey, respondents will be helped if
                                    you provide them with written instructions on what you want them
                                    to do. You could indicate, for example, that you want them to
                                    comment on:
The instructions for completing the questionnaire.The validity of each question, asking respondents
                                            whether they want an individual question deleted or
                                            modified - and if the latter, how.The overall length of the questionnaire.



Stage 3: Final Survey Design And Planning
The pre-testing will inform planners as to what changes need to be
                                made to the various elements, such as the choice and size of
                                sampling frame, the questionnaire itself, interviewer training, data
                                coding and plans for data analysis. A common occurrence at this
                                stage is to find problems with the representativeness of the
                                sampling frame. For example, it might be found that the responses of
                                a particular sub-group (say, male airline cabin crew) were quite
                                different to the main group (female cabin crew). A decision would
                                have to be made (within the constraints of time and budget) on
                                whether to increase the size of this sub-group sample. Of course, if
                                the budget is fixed, this implies that the size of the other
                                sub-group (female cabin crew) will have to be reduced. Researchers,
                                then, need to consider what impact this may have on the reliability
                                of the results.


Stage 4: Data Collection
Apart from the data collection and coding process itself, at this
                                stage one of the most important activities is to monitor the rate of
                                completed interviews and the rate of non-response. The latter should
                                be measured by specific category, each of which has different
                                implications for the research, namely:
Non-contacts (try to re-contact).Refusals (try to ascertain reasons for refusal).Ineligibles (replace by eligible respondents).
If interviews are being conducted, the performance of individual
                                interviewers needs to be checked for their success rate at achieving
                                interviewee cooperation and the quality of the interview data. For
                                example, are there some interviewers who consistently fail to get
                                all questions in the questionnaire completed? Is this accidental or
                                does it point to a problem? The importance of reducing sources of
                                error will be explored in more depth later in the chapter.


Stage 5: Data Coding, Analysis And Reporting
At the coding stage, a number is assigned to the responses to each
                                survey question, and these are then entered into a data record that
                                includes all the responses from one respondent. Each respondent is
                                then given a unique identity number. Before data analysis can begin
                                the data have to be 'cleaned', that is, checked for
                                obvious errors. If, for example, a question has only two possible
                                responses, 'Yes' (= 1), or 'No' (= 2),
                                but the data file contains the number 3, then clearly an error has
                                been made and must be corrected.

Activity 10.1
Take a survey that you have conducted or intend to carry out. Are
                                    there any steps in Figure 10.2 that you would
                                    omit? If so, justify your decision.




Selecting A Survey Method
Saunders et al. (2012) comment that the design of a survey questionnaire
                            will depend on how it is to be administered, that is, whether it is to
                            be self-administered, or interviewer-administered. Within these
                            categories, they distinguish between six different types of
                            questionnaire (see Figure 10.3). Of these, the most
                            commonly used are postal questionnaires, structured (face-to-face)
                            interviews and telephone questionnaires, although the use of the online
                            questionnaire is becoming increasingly popular. The starting point for
                            selecting between them is the purpose of the survey and the kinds of
                            questions that the research intends to ask. Resources such as time and
                            budgets are also part of the decision making equation.



Guide to Questionnaire Design



Self-Administered Questionnaires

Postal Questionnaires
Mangione (1995) suggests that postal surveys are best
                                    considered when:
The research sample is widely distributed
                                            geographically.Research subjects need to be given time to reflect on
                                            their answers.The research subjects have a moderate to high interest
                                            in the subject.The questions are mostly written in a close-ended
                                            style.
Figure
                                            10.3 Types of questionnaireSource: Adapted from Saunders,
                                        Lewis and Thornhill, Research Methods for Business
                                            Students, 6th edn. Reprinted by permission of
                                        Pearson Education Ltd © 2012
Certainly, postal questionnaires are most suited to situations
                                    where the questions are not over-elaborate and require
                                    relatively straightforward answers. They also allow respondents
                                    time to consult documents and to complete the questionnaire in
                                    their own time. Respondents may also be more amenable to
                                    answering personal and delicate questions through this more
                                    anonymous medium. It is possible that answers may be more honest
                                    than when faced by an interviewer, whom they may be tempted to
                                    impress by exaggerated responses or a socially desirable
                                    response (SDR). Postal questionnaires are normally one of the
                                    cheapest methods to use and can achieve relatively high response
                                    rates when the topic is relevant to the audience.



Postal Questionnaire Example


Kerlinger and Lee (2000), however, warn that the postal
                                    questionnaire has serious drawbacks unless it is used with other
                                    techniques. Problems include a low return rate and an inability
                                    to check the responses that have been given. They caution that
                                    response rates as low as 40 or 50 per cent are common, which
                                    means that the researcher has to be careful about making strong
                                    generalizations on the basis of the data. Czaja and Blair (2005)
                                    also caution that postal surveys are prone to response bias
                                    because of lower returns from people with low levels of literacy
                                    and education. This group are more compliant with, say,
                                    interviews, because no demands are made on their reading
                                    abilities. If response rates are low, those responding may be
                                    doing so on the basis of some interest or commitment to the
                                    subject, making them a volunteer rather than a genuinely random
                                    sample. Kerlinger and Lee (2000) argue that with postal
                                    questionnaires only a response rate of 80 or 90 per cent is
                                    acceptable, and every effort should be made to achieve this.
                                    Ways of improving response rates are explored later.


Delivery And Collection Questionnaires
Delivery and collection questionnaires are simply delivered by
                                    hand to each respondent and collected later. This has the
                                    advantage over postal questionnaires in that there is some
                                    direct contact with potential respondents that might in turn
                                    induce a greater proportion of people to complete the
                                    questionnaire. But like all questionnaires, this will largely be
                                    determined by how interesting the audience finds the survey. One
                                    of the considerable disadvantages of this approach, obviously,
                                    is the time and effort involved in delivering and collecting the
                                    questionnaires. For student researchers the use of this approach
                                    is quite common when undertaking research which requires
                                    responses from other students on their academic programme. So,
                                    for example, questionnaires might be distributed before a
                                    lecture with the request that they are dropped into a box as
                                    students leave.
Image 10.1
                                        A traditional survey approach - a postal
                                        questionnaire© iStock.com / Alex


Online Questionnaires
Online questionnaires are an increasingly popular way of
                                    conducting surveys. Essentially, there are two ways in which an
                                    online questionnaire can be delivered - as a word
                                    processed document attached to an email, or via a website (see
                                        Figure 10.3). With emails,
                                    the researcher will have to know the email addresses of
                                    respondents so that the sample can be targeted. With Web-based
                                    surveys, if the site is not password-protected, there is no
                                    control over who completes the survey form. This means that
                                    respondents will comprise a volunteer rather than a random
                                    sample, with corresponding threats to the validity of the data.
                                    Conversely, if the site is password-protected, this presents a
                                    further barrier to respondents and could tend to push the
                                    response rate down. The problem of security is partially solved
                                    if the research is focused on just one organization that
                                    possesses an intranet, with firewalls to block access from
                                    external visitors. But again, the researcher may find it
                                    difficult to control who responds. There is conflicting evidence
                                    as to whether making use of Web-based surveys increases response
                                    rates, leads to lower response rates or makes no difference.
                                    Certainly, response rates are likely to be higher for groups who
                                    have Internet access, are experienced in using computers and
                                    have some motivation to complete the survey.
Sampling error is by far the greatest threat to the
                                    validity of online questionnaires (Ray and Tabor, 2003), mainly
                                    because certain demographic segments of the population may be
                                    under-represented or simply not represented at all. Those
                                    households who do not have access to the Internet probably
                                    differ to those who do in terms of socio-economic status and
                                    education, for example. It becomes necessary, therefore, to
                                    provide evidence or arguments that the non-online population
                                    does not differ significantly in terms of its choices or
                                    decision making compared to online respondents.



Representa-tiveness in Online
                                            Surveys


Being more impersonal,
                                    it might be assumed that online surveys are less prone to elicit
                                    socially desirable responses (SDRs) that might bias the results.
                                    Hancock and Flowers (2001), however, report that while some
                                    studies have suggested that computer responses are more candid
                                    and less influenced by social desirability than responses
                                    provided on paper (such as postal questionnaires and structured
                                    interviews), their own research did not support these findings.
                                    At best, online responses were no worse. Online surveys, then,
                                    should probably be chosen more on the basis of lower costs, than
                                    for the reduction in response bias.

On The Web 10.3
For an example of software tools that you can use to build an
                                        online survey, see each of the following:

http://www.surveymonkey.com/


http://www.surveywriter.com/


http://www.sogosurvey.com

Use the Tutorial or Demo for each site to get the
                                        'feel' of each tool.



Online Business Survey
                                                Generator





In addition to constructing online questionnaires, Web-based
                                    surveys can also be carried out via a Web discussion group. Here
                                    a question, or set of questions, can be posted to the group in
                                    the form of a simple email. Since discussion groups (such as
                                    listservs) are set up around specific discussions, you need to
                                    be sure that the research subject is of relevance and interest
                                    to the group. Case Study 10.2 provides an example of how a
                                    discussion group was used to conduct a research study.

Case Study 10.2

Conducting A Survey Through An Email
                                            Discussion Group
Two researchers were interested in the views of fellow
                                            researchers on the safety procedures necessary in being
                                            a lone researcher. To gather data, they chose six email
                                            discussion groups. Initially they sent an email
                                            requesting only basic information, but after an
                                            encouraging response, they sent a more structured set of
                                            questions in a second email. This requested details on
                                            respondents': gender; age; occupation; area of
                                            work; country of fieldwork; whether they had been given
                                            safety guidelines; whether they had experienced
                                            incidents while conducting research; and recommendations
                                            for 'best practice' when researching
                                            alone.
A total of 46 responses were received, of which 13 were
                                            from males and 33 from females, with ages ranging from
                                            the late 20s to the early 60s. Thirty-one were from the
                                            UK (possibly resulting from the UK bias of four of the
                                            discussion lists). Four were from Australia, six from
                                            the USA, and one from each of Finland, Norway, Sweden,
                                            Italy and Canada. Some of the replies were quite
                                            detailed.
While the sample could not be regarded as representative,
                                            this survey method proved to be cheap, speedy at
                                            gathering data, and illuminative in terms of the quality
                                            of data it elicited. Also note its international
                                            character.


Source: Adapted from Kenyon and Hawker, 1999




On The Web 10.4
Take a look at some of the email discussion groups available
                                        at:

http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/

In the Find List, type in one of your research topics to see
                                        if a discussion list already exists. Alternatively, click on
                                        alphabetical indexes to browse the lists.




Interviewer-Administered Questionnaires

Structured Interviews
Structured, face-to-face interviews are probably the most
                                    expensive survey method because they require large amounts of
                                    interviewer time, a significant proportion of which is often
                                    spent travelling to and from interviews. The questionnaires on
                                    which the interviews are based can be difficult, time-consuming
                                    and costly to produce. However, response rates are usually
                                    slightly higher than for methods such as telephone interviews,
                                    particularly if a letter can be sent in advance, explaining the
                                    purposes of the structured interview. Response bias is also
                                    fairly low because refusals are usually equally spread across
                                    all types of respondent. Structured interviews are the most
                                    effective method for asking open questions and for
                                    eliciting more detailed responses. Like telephone interviews but
                                    unlike postal questionnaires, structured interviews allow for
                                    the use of probing questions in response to unclear or
                                    incomplete answers.
Interview schedules may begin with factual, demographic
                                    information: the respondent's sex, marital status,
                                    education, income, etc. This is often referred to as the
                                    'face sheet' and is vital for two reasons; first,
                                    it allows for the later studying of relationships between
                                    variables - for example, an attitude towards an
                                    organization's product or service and respondents'
                                    educational background, or income level. Secondly, it allows for
                                    some rapport to be built with the interviewee at the start of
                                    the interview. The personal interview helps in ascertaining a
                                    respondent's reasons for doing something or holding a
                                    personal belief. Of course, there may be differences between
                                    what people believe and what they do, and between what they say
                                    they do and their real actions in practice. There is also the
                                    problem that respondents are more likely to over-report socially
                                    desirable behaviour than when answering through postal
                                    interviews.
Image 10.2
                                        Interviews as a survey method© iStock.com / JackF



Focus Group Interviews
The use of focus groups (See Chapter 18) allows for a sample of respondents to be
                                    interviewed and then re-interviewed so that attitudes and
                                    behaviours can be studied over a period of time (a longitudinal
                                    survey). An advantage of focus groups is that they allow for a
                                    variety of views to emerge, while group dynamics can often allow
                                    for the stimulation of new perspectives. Indeed, sometimes these
                                    new perspectives may provide the basis for a survey.



Methodology for an Evaluation
                                            Study


Focus groups are increasingly used in the political arena and are
                                    also a common tool in market research. Within a business or
                                    organization, they can be useful in engaging the commitment of
                                    people, especially in circumstances where there is cynicism or
                                    hostility towards the research theme.

On The Web 10.5
There are now brokering organizations that provide a service
                                        by recruiting people to take part in focus groups and
                                        selling these services to external organizations that want
                                        to use a focus group. See such a brokering organization
                                        at:

http://www.focusforce.net/




Telephone Surveys
The telephone survey is the most widely used of all the survey
                                    methods. One factor in its favour is the growth of household
                                    telephone ownership, reaching over 90 per cent in some
                                    countries. Indeed, with the spread of mobile phones many
                                    households are now multiple telephone owners. Most surveys are
                                    currently conducted through home telephones, but it is likely
                                    that cellphone surveys will spread, especially when researchers
                                    want access to younger age groups, for whom the cellphone is now
                                    a social accessory.
Response rates for telephone surveys are relatively high
                                    (60-90 per cent when repeated callbacks are made) because
                                    most people are willing to be interviewed by telephone. In
                                    contrast to postal surveys, it becomes possible for interviewers
                                    to convince people of the significance of the research or to
                                    reschedule the interview for a more convenient time. If people
                                    prove difficult to contact, Czaja and Blair (2005) recommend
                                    five to nine callbacks on different days of the week and at
                                    different times of day. With some groups, for example older
                                    adults, making contact through either an interview or postal
                                    questionnaire prior to a telephone follow-up can boost the
                                    response rate (Wilson and Roe, 1998).
One of the limitations of telephone interviews is the type of
                                    questions that can be asked. Questions need to be short and
                                    fairly simple, and the kinds of response choices few and short.
                                    Sentences should be limited to 20 words or less and language
                                    kept as simple as possible. If calling groups who are not
                                    conversant with a country's first language, then it is
                                    prudent to use interviewers who can speak the
                                    respondent's language.



Telephone Survey


Image 10.3
                                        Market research is often conducted through a call centre© iStock.com / Catherine
                                        Yeulet

Activity 10.2
In deciding between the various survey methods, make a list
                                        of the advantages and disadvantages of each. Which, on
                                        balance, is the best for your own survey? Justify your
                                        choice.





Conducting A Staff Opinion Survey
Perhaps the most common survey in business is the staff opinion survey,
                            which can provide valuable insights into many elements of an
                            organization's operations, including working practices,
                            communications, management structures, leadership, general organization
                            and customer relations. Companies of all sizes and in many kinds of
                            industries have used such surveys to gauge the feelings of employees.
                            For example, a staff survey might be invoked to assess attitudes towards
                            proposed changes to a company's redundancy scheme (with reduced
                            benefits), or to predict problems before they occur, or to ascertain
                            what actions need to be taken to improve staff morale, confidence and
                            loyalty. Their value can be greater if a survey can be compared with a
                            similar one conducted in the past (a longitudinal design), or with
                            surveys conducted in similar organizations, or with other sources of
                            benchmarking data. Whatever the subject of the staff opinion survey, it
                            is essential that the results are fed back to all staff, particularly
                            those who provided information, otherwise the response rate to future
                            surveys is likely to be low.



Guide to Staff Surveys


As Figure 10.2 showed, all surveys
                            must be conducted according to a carefully devised plan, and staff
                            opinion surveys are no exception. Indeed, because they involve
                            contacting many people within an organization, it is essential that, if
                            'political fallout' is to be avoided, they must be seen to
                            be professionally designed and conducted. This is also essential in
                            assisting a high return rate - vital if the organization's
                            policy is to be influenced by the results. We will look in turn at the typical stages involved in
                            a staff opinion survey, many of which should, by now, be familiar.

Identifying Aims And Objectives
An organization or researcher must have a sound reason for wanting to
                                conduct the survey in the first place, since money and resources are
                                going to be used in its planning and implementation. The anticipated
                                results need to outweigh the costs of the survey. Once the
                                organization is satisfied that this is the case, a concise set of
                                aims and objectives should be drawn up. If, for example, a company
                                has just taken over a rival firm, it might want to conduct a survey
                                among the new set of employees on how they have reacted to the
                                take-over and their perceptions of their new employers (including
                                their fears and anxieties). A well-defined set of aims and
                                objectives provide a basis for also determining the scope and
                                structure of the survey and for evaluating its effectiveness.
As a student researcher, you might have an opportunity to become
                                involved in a staff survey. While this would be an ideal opportunity
                                to conduct a large-scale study and enhance your skills, there are
                                also dangers. Firstly, does the opportunity come with an appropriate
                                amount of financial resources to cover your expenses (such as the
                                purchase of any survey software and administrative support)?
                                Secondly, do you have sufficient time to negotiate, plan and execute
                                the survey? Thirdly, do you have an appropriate amount of access to
                                respondents? Finally, do you have sufficient experience and
                                expertise?

Top Tip 10.4
The author once worked for a large London-based organization in
                                    which one of the human resources consultants decided to
                                    undertake an attitude survey of the middle and senior management
                                    team. However, he was relatively inexperienced in survey design
                                    and some of the questions were not well worded (at least to some
                                    of those who received the questionnaire). As a result, many
                                    senior managers phoned the human resources department to ask:
                                    'What's this survey all about? I don't
                                    understand why I've got it or what it's
                                    for!' A week later the consultant was sacked! The moral
                                    of this story: employee surveys are high profile - you
                                    can't afford any mistakes! So take advice and pilot the
                                    survey thoroughly before release.



Planning The Survey

Establishing The Scope
Assessing the scope of the survey is important. It is relatively
                                    easy to construct long surveys that attack a range of themes,
                                    none of which fits comfortably together. The reports that result
                                    from surveys of this kind will have difficulty in providing
                                    coherent, focused recommendations for implementation. One
                                    approach is to start with a broad but shallow survey that
                                    addresses a range of topics, but not in significant depth, to
                                    highlight key themes. This could be followed with a detailed
                                    survey on prime concerns. If one of these problems was, say, the
                                    emergence of a key competitor, the survey could focus on
                                    corporate direction, customer focus and innovation. If, on the
                                    other hand, the problem was the emergence of a high staff
                                    turnover rate, the scope of the survey could be confined to
                                    employee appraisal systems, motivation, pay and benefits, and
                                    training and development.



Considering The Audience
We saw in Chapter 6 that, often for
                                    practical reasons, representative samples must be chosen from
                                    the population. In designing a survey for a specific audience,
                                    it is necessary to consider their traits and attributes. For
                                    example, their educational and literacy levels (including first
                                    language), qualifications, experience in the sector or business,
                                    technical knowledge and national culture. A survey, say, that
                                    asked respondents to provide information on their
                                    'Christian' name, would be offensive to people of
                                    non-Christian religions, or of no religious persuasion. No
                                    matter what the social or ethnic composition of an organization,
                                    survey designers need to be aware of multi-cultural
                                    sensitivities.


Getting The Timing Right
Even short-term changes in an organization can have an effect on
                                    staff morale and hence the chances of people being willing to
                                    complete a survey. This can also include rumours, whether
                                    substantiated or not, of changes about to occur. It is important
                                    to conduct staff opinion surveys during periods when the
                                    organization is not affected by these one-off developments. This
                                    is particularly important when the results are going to be
                                    compared with those from a previous survey. It will almost
                                    certainly help to pilot the survey first to make sure that there
                                    are no embarrassing misunderstandings. Staff opinion surveys are
                                    high profile!


Creating Publicity
Taking Dillman's (2007) advice, advance notice of the
                                    survey is important for assisting the return rate. Employees
                                    need to know why the survey is being carried out and what will
                                    be done with the results. A guarantee of confidentiality is, of
                                    course, essential. Publicity for the survey and its credibility
                                    will be most effective if this comes from the highest level of
                                    the organization, particularly if this is the
                                    organization's chief executive or managing director. For
                                    many organizations, this publicity will be delivered via its
                                    intranet, or staff newsletter.



Fostering Employee Engagement




Selecting Research Tools
As we have seen earlier, there are a number of alternative survey
                                    methods, and any staff opinion survey will benefit from the use
                                    of a variety of approaches. Hence, a typical survey may use not
                                    only paper-based questionnaires, but questionnaires delivered
                                    via email and the intranet. Interviewer-administered
                                    questionnaires are less likely to be used for staff opinion
                                    surveys due to the time and costs involved as well as the lack
                                    of confidentiality.



Analysing The Results
The impact of a survey is enhanced if comparisons can be drawn
                                between different categories of respondent in the organization.
                                Hence, for the analysis to have much significance, the survey should
                                be aimed at capturing the opinions of staff in different departments
                                or business units, functions, locations, age groups, levels of
                                seniority, length of service, etc. It is also useful to compare the
                                results with those of other, similar organizations (similar in terms
                                of size and sector), in order to benchmark the organization against
                                others. This, of course, will be dependent on the extent to which
                                such data is available.
Care should be taken, however, to ensure that the use of respondent
                                demographic categories is accurate. In the modern world,
                                organizations change quickly. Departments get renamed, moved or
                                closed down. New departments or sections open up but news of this may not be generally
                                shared throughout the organization, especially large ones. People
                                get promoted or leave the organization. You need to ensure that you
                                are working from the latest records (sampling frame) of
                                organizational information. The analysis will be considerably
                                strengthened if you are able to compare like with like -
                                there is a consistency over time in terms of what is being
                                explored.


Using The Results

Reporting Results To Management
Many staff opinion surveys may require two different kinds of
                                    report. If the organization is a large company, a Corporate
                                    Report might be needed at top management level. The Corporate
                                    Report should include:
An overview of the results for the whole
                                            organization.A comparison, if possible, between the current survey
                                            and previous surveys to illustrate trends over
                                            time.An Executive Summary that features key points,
                                            conclusions and recommendations.



Reporting Results to Management


Corporate Reports may also sometimes include the results of
                                    similar surveys conducted in other companies to establish
                                    benchmarks. An essential feature of a Corporate Report is that
                                    it should be easy to read, and so presenting data in tabular and
                                    graphical form is very important.
Another kind of document, a Management Report, is needed by the
                                    managers of individual business units, divisions, departments or
                                    locations. The Management Report might include a comparison
                                    between:
Different business units, departments or locations
                                            within the organization.The views of people of different grades or levels.The views of people of different age ranges or length of
                                            service.
For very large surveys in complex organizations there can be
                                    quite a significant time gap between the collection of the data
                                    and the publication of the report. In this case the publication
                                    of a short one- or two-page Flash Report, summarizing the
                                    findings, could be useful, particularly if these could be broken
                                    down, by department or section. In some cases this could
                                    comprise a small set of Web pages that are linked from the
                                    'What's New?' section of an
                                    organization's main Web home page. As a student reporting
                                    results, you might consider offering to give a short
                                    presentation of the findings to the management team or person
                                    that commissioned the research.


Reporting The Results To Employees
Staff opinion surveys create expectations among employees, hence,
                                    it is essential that results are disseminated as soon as
                                    possible. This should include those cases where the results of
                                    the survey are not in line with management hopes or
                                    expectations. Not to publish a report will only fuel resentment
                                    and make any future staff opinion survey difficult to implement.
                                    The best approach is for management to show that they are
                                    willing to acknowledge the results and to take action. Reporting
                                    results to staff could be through staff newsletters, bulletin
                                    boards, emails or team meetings - or all of these.


Implementing The Results
For the results of a staff opinion survey to have any lasting
                                    impact it is necessary that a planned and coherent series of
                                    actions be conducted. These could include:
The appointment of a director or senior manager
                                            responsible for coordinating follow-up actions across
                                            the organization.The appointment of a senior manager responsible for
                                            coordinating follow-up actions in each division or
                                            department.Agreement on a timetable and process for
                                            implementation.Agreement on a system for monitoring the implementation
                                            of recommendations stemming from the survey and for
                                            communicating the effectiveness of the
                                            implementation.




Reducing Sources Of Error
Total survey error (TSE) is the accumulation of all errors that may arise
                            in the design, collection, processing and analysis of survey data
                            (Biemer, 2010). It is the deviation of a survey response from its
                            true value. In an ideal world, the selected sample exactly mirrors all
                            facets of the target population. Each question in the survey is clear
                            and precise and captures the sphere of interest exactly. Every person
                            selected for the sample agrees to cooperate; they understand every
                            question and know all the requested information and answer truthfully
                            and completely. Their responses are accurately recorded and entered
                            without error into a computer file and accurately analysed. If only real
                            world surveys were like this! In the real world, gaps and distortions in
                            the data become sources of error.
The two main sources of error are variance and bias.
                                Variance results from different measures occurring in
                            repeated trials of a procedure. One of the most common sources of this
                            is sampling error (see next section). Variance can also
                            refer to the variability of the dependent variables in a study that
                            cannot be associated with changes in the independent variable. McBurney
                            and White (2009) suggest that changes in the dependent variable
                            associated with changes in independent variables is fine, but variance
                            is an example of 'bad' variability because it distorts the
                            data and should be controlled. Other sources of variance are the
                            percentage of respondents who can be contacted for an interview, or the
                            number of refusals to answer a particular question.
Bias occurs when a measurement tends to be consistently higher or lower
                            than the true population value. If, say, we conducted a survey of income
                            levels in a community, there might be a tendency for those on lower
                            incomes to report that they earn more due to social embarrassment.
                            Conversely there might also be a tendency for wealthier social groups to
                            report lower income levels than they earn, perhaps because they
                            subconsciously fear the listening ear of the tax authorities! More
                            often, these kinds of groups will simply not complete the part of the
                            survey that asks for data on income level - another source of
                            error, non-response. Biemer (2010) suggests that the setting or
                            environment within which a survey is conducted may also contribute to
                            measurement error. For example, when collecting data on sensitive
                            subjects like workplace theft, sexual exploitation or drunkenness at
                            work, this is best done in a private and confidential setting if
                            accurate responses are going to be obtained.



Possible Error Sources



Sampling Error
Sampling error, as we have seen, is one of the sources of variance.
                                If the population for the study is split between males and females,
                                even a random sample can finish up with, say, 52 per cent females
                                and 48 per cent males. A common source of sampling error, however,
                                lies with sampling frames. We would like the frame to list all
                                members of the population that have been identified, and to exclude
                                all others. Unfortunately, this is often not the case. One problem
                                is that of under-coverage, where people are missing from the
                                sampling frame. For example, if telephone directories are used as sources of the
                                sampling frame, some groups of people may have their numbers
                                excluded from the directory. This is not a problem if the
                                under-coverage is random, but poses problems if the exclusion is
                                more prone among some groups than others. Furthermore, the sampling
                                frame may not include people who have just moved house. This is not
                                problematic if such people are typical of the population as a whole,
                                but, again, becomes an issue if they are different in terms of key
                                characteristics.
A reverse problem is that of over-coverage where the sampling
                                frame contains people who are not members of the target population.
                                This occurs, for example, when quite generalized sampling frames are
                                available (such as telephone directories, or membership lists of
                                clubs or associations) but specific groups are required for the
                                sample. For example, a study of attitudes towards the recycling of
                                domestic waste in a seaside town might use a directory of local
                                residents, only to find that many of the homes are used for holiday
                                lettings and are either empty or occupied by people not relevant to
                                the research.
This difficulty can be overcome in several ways. One is to contact
                                members of the sampling frame and ascertain whether they belong to
                                the required sample. Another is to design the questionnaire or
                                interview schedule in such a way that ineligible respondents are
                                identified early and screened out.

On The Web 10.6
To calculate sampling error for a given size of sample,
                                    population and confidence interval, visit the DSS Research site
                                    at:

http://www.dssresearch.com/toolkit/default.asp

Click on Sample Error calculator. Note that the site also
                                    contains a tool for calculating sample size.



Data Collection Error
One of the simple solutions to reducing error at the data collection
                                stage is maintaining a robust record-keeping system so that the
                                amount of missing data can be minimized. At the unit level (person
                                or household), records will include details of all those who have
                                responded, non-respondents and follow-up mailing or interview
                                details, and the number and timings of re-attempted telephone
                                calls.

Top Tip 10.5
Non-response can be reduced by making questionnaires easy to
                                    answer. Hence response rates can be improved by careful and
                                    meticulous questionnaire design. In the case of interviews,
                                    non-respondents can be re-contacted by more experienced and
                                    persuasive interviewers. Or rethink your approach to providing
                                    incentives for people to agree to be interviewed.



Effective Questionnaire Tactics





In addition to non-response, missing data is also a problem. In
                                postal surveys there are several ways of coping with missing data:
Ignoring the items and code as 'missing' in
                                        the data set.Trying to determine what the answer should be.Re-contacting the respondent.
The choice of steps taken partly depends on the value of the missing
                                data. If it is of central importance to the study, then rather than
                                ignoring it, or guessing what it might have been, the best step is
                                to try to contact the respondent. Copas and Farewell (1998) discuss
                                some of the statistical methods for dealing with non-response when
                                these gaps in the data cannot be ignored. If the level of data loss
                                is small, however, and of relatively low importance, then it may be
                                safe to ignore the problem.


Improving Response Rates
A meta-survey based on 45 surveys (including Web surveys, telephone
                                surveys, direct mailing and face-to-face interviews) showed that
                                response rates for Web surveys averaged 6-15 per cent, that
                                is, 11 per cent lower than for the other methods (Lozar Manfreda,
                                Bosnjak, Berzelak, Hass and Vehovar, 2008). Web surveys also suffer
                                because respondents often fail to answer all the questions,
                                particularly when the survey is long (see item non-response next).
                                To improve survey low response rates it is often necessary to locate
                                their causes. Dillman (2007) suggests that low response rates may
                                result from:
Difficulties in defining the organizational entity. Does the
                                        survey deal with individual 'units' of the
                                        organization or the organization as a whole?Problems in getting to the targeted correspondent. In large
                                        organizations, for example, senior managers may have their
                                        post opened by administrative staff and personal assistants
                                        who may make the decision on whether the survey is passed on
                                        for completion.Organizations having a policy of not responding to
                                        surveys.Data sources needing to be consulted, taking up time, even
                                        if records are available and not confidential.
In general, response rates will be higher if the respondent has the
                                authority to respond, the capacity to respond (access to the
                                information) and the motivation to respond (it is in his or her
                                interests to do so). Dillman (2007) suggests that a number of
                                factors are critical to achieving a high return rate from
                                organizational surveys.
Identifying the most appropriate respondents and developing
                                        multiple ways of contacting them. This is particularly
                                        helped if names and job titles are known in advance. Prior
                                        telephone calls can help here, and can also assist in
                                        identifying where in the organization the survey should be
                                        sent.Planning for a mixed-mode design, using not only a
                                        questionnaire but other forms of contact such as emails or
                                        the telephone. While surveys targeted at individuals may
                                        require about five contacts, organizational surveys may
                                        require more.Developing an easy-to-complete questionnaire with embedded
                                        instructions on how to complete the questions (see Chapter 14).Conducting on-site interviews to help tailor the
                                        questionnaire to the knowledge and cognitive capabilities of
                                        the audience. This may also help identify questions that are
                                        too sensitive.Targeting organizational surveys on gatekeepers if
                                        possible.Being cautious about the use of financial incentives (unlike
                                        individual surveys), as this may not be ethically acceptable
                                        in some organizations.
Jobber and O'Reilly
                                (1996), however, do suggest the use of direct incentives for
                                responding. Table 10.1 illustrates data on
                                monetary incentives taken from the authors' analysis of 12
                                studies. Even though the sums are relatively modest, the act of
                                'giving' helps to build an obligation to respond on
                                the part of the recipient. Non-monetary incentives include the use
                                of gifts such as pens or pocket-knives (the latter would definitely
                                need ethical approval!), and even high quality, foil-wrapped milk
                                chocolate (Brennan and Charbonneau, 2009) but various studies
                                suggest that these are slightly less effective than direct monetary
                                incentives. When using pre-paid envelopes for the return of
                                questionnaires, evidence suggests that stamped rather than business
                                reply envelopes elicit the larger response. Assurances of anonymity
                                can also have an impact, whether the survey is organized from within
                                the organization or from the outside. Finally, it makes sense to
                                follow up any non-respondents with a letter and questionnaire.



Top Tip: Survey Design




Top Tip 10.6
It is worth spending additional time getting the 'look
                                        and feel' of the questionnaire right. Survey
                                        instruments that are professionally presented and easy to
                                        complete will, generally, get higher response rates.




Research by Helgeson et al. (2002) led them to develop a model for
                                improving response rates for mail surveys based on a five-stage
                                process: attention, intention, completion, return and interest in
                                results (see Figure 10.4).
Attention. The amount of time survey recipients spent
                                        reading and reviewing their mail is an important factor
                                        influencing attention to the survey (they will tend to open
                                        the envelope and scrutinize the contents). Also important is
                                        that recipients have a general interest in research.
                                        Attention will be helped by a pre-notification that the
                                        survey is on its way.Intention to complete the survey is influenced by the
                                        perceived length of the survey - the shorter the
                                        survey, the greater the intention will be to complete
                                        it.Completion and return. Once a survey is completed it is
                                        likely to be returned because of curiosity regarding the
                                        results.


Source: Adapted from Jobber and
                                    O'Reilly, 1996

Figure 10.4
                                    Survey-response hierarchy-of-effects modelSource: Helgeson et al., 2002.
                                    Reprinted by permission of John Wiley and Sons
What is important in the findings is that Helgeson et al. (2002) find
                                that each phase has a significant relationship on subsequent phases.
                                Indeed, the strength of these relationships becomes greater as the
                                process progresses. So researchers need to give respondents
                                encouragement to move between phases. Designing the survey so that
                                it gains the potential respondent's attention and provides
                                some rewards for its completion enhances the chances that the
                                respondent will move on to completion and return.


Reducing Item Non-Response
At the item (question) level, missing data may be far from random and
                                pose a threat of bias to the study. For example, people may refuse
                                to answer questions that are seen as intrusive or sensitive, or they
                                simply may not know the answer. In interviews it is essential that
                                interviewers are skilled in handling non-response to individual
                                questions. This is helped by interviewers being able to remind
                                respondents about the confidentiality of their answers (if they
                                believe that the problem is one of sensitivity). Mangione (1995)
                                argues that, for postal surveys, any problem of non-response should
                                have been picked up at the piloting stage where it should have been
                                clear which questions were giving respondents a problem. This is
                                particularly the case with attitude surveys where subjects do not
                                feel that their views have been represented in the questions or they
                                dislike the way in which potential responses are phrased.


Reducing Interviewer Error
Unskilled, untrained or inexperienced interviewers can also be a
                                source of error due to the way in which they handle the interview.
                                The key is that the respondent should answer against the categories
                                that are presented, and no other. So if these categories are
                                'Strongly agree', 'Agree', 'Disagree' and
                                'Strongly disagree', or 'No response',
                                these are what are marked down and coded on the interview schedule.
                                If such responses are not forthcoming, the interviewer responds with
                                a probe, a question designed to elicit an acceptable
                                response. So, say a respondent answered: 'Yeh, you're
                                absolutely right!' the correct probe is: 'Would that
                                be ... [read the categories again]?' The incorrect probe
                                would be: 'So, would that be "Strongly agree",
                                then?', as this, obviously, would be biasing the
                                response.

Improving Construct Validity
Another source of error is invalidity. Particularly if you are
                                    designing your own survey instrument such as a questionnaire, it
                                    is easy to construct questions that do not match what you are
                                    trying to discover. The way around this is to develop a table
                                    like the one presented at Table
                                        14.5 in Chapter 14. List your
                                    research questions down the left hand column. In the next
                                    column, outline the kinds of constructs being measured. So, if
                                    you have a research question that states: 'Does greater
                                    job satisfaction lead to improved performance?', then the
                                    two constructs, clearly, are 'job satisfaction'
                                    and 'performance'. This all may appear too
                                    obvious, but it helps you focus on what you are seeking to
                                    measure. In the next column, choose how you are going to collect
                                    data that addresses each research question and construct. As
                                    indicated in Stages in the Survey Process, above, there
                                    may be validated scales already available, so it is sensible to
                                    make use of them (see Making Use of Validated Scales, p. 379 in
                                        Chapter 14). If the scale
                                    is short, you might choose to include it in under
                                    'Instrument questions' in one of the table
                                    columns; if it is too long, include it in an Appendix and make
                                    reference to where it is. If a validated scale is unavailable,
                                    then you will construct one of your own, indicating in the table
                                    that the instrument is designed as part of 'This
                                    study'. In the right hand column, write out the questions
                                    so they can be checked against the construct being measured.
Of course, a survey questionnaire may be one option for measuring
                                    constructs but there are others. Indeed, you may want to show
                                    that, for the purposes of enhancing reliability, you are going
                                    to triangulate data gathering methods. Table
                                        14.5 shows that both questionnaires and interviews are
                                    to be used.




Ethics And Good Practice In Survey Design
As we saw in Chapter 4, two of the essential
                            principles of ethical conduct are informed consent and the protection of
                            confidentiality, and these apply to the use of surveys as to any other
                            research method. This means that respondents must be told about the
                            nature and purposes of the survey, who is sponsoring it and how much of
                            their time will be required in answering it. They should also know about
                            the purposes to which the survey data will be put. Subjects should take
                            part purely voluntarily and not as a result of pressure being imposed on
                            them. In protecting confidentiality, care must be taken to ensure that
                            data sets or the results of the study do not allow individuals to be
                            identified. Sampling frame lists should not be passed on to third
                            parties, including other researchers, without the consent of survey
                            participants. Even if consent is given, care must be taken to remove all
                            identifying features that could link specific data to individuals. When
                            research is being conducted by professional survey researchers, these
                            kinds of principles are usually codified into a set of ethical
                            guidelines or rules. To compare and contrast the ethical codes of a
                            number of professional research bodies, return to On the Web 4.1 in Chapter 4.



Summary
Surveys are a common research tool because they allow for the
                                    collection of large amounts of data from large samples.Stages in survey design include the definition of research
                                    objectives, questionnaire design, piloting, survey distribution,
                                    and coding and analysis.There are, essentially, two kinds of survey: analytical and
                                    descriptive. Descriptive surveys can provide illuminating data
                                    which may provide the basis for more detailed analytical
                                    investigations. Analytical surveys are capable of finding
                                    associations between dependent and independent variables and
                                    between the independent variables themselves.Survey methods include self-administered questionnaires (postal,
                                    delivery and collection, and online) and
                                    interviewer-administered questionnaires (structured, focus
                                    groups and telephone). Postal and online questionnaires are
                                    usually the cheapest to use, but interviewer-administered
                                    questionnaires allow interviewers to explore issues of
                                    non-response and to follow up with probes.Sources of error include variance and bias. To reduce sources of
                                    error, steps must be taken to minimize under-coverage and
                                    over-coverage in sampling frames, and to minimize the amount of
                                    missing data, including non-response to the survey and to
                                    individual items.In encouraging high response rates, care must be taken to abide
                                    by research ethics in not pressurizing people to participate or
                                    to answer questions that they find intrusive.

Review Questions
Why is the use of surveys such 'big business'
                                        today?Response rates for Web-based surveys are generally lower
                                        than for other methods. How can you explain this?Piloting of surveys is usually strongly recommended. But
                                            what should you seek to pilot?Name five practical incentives to respondents (other than
                                        money) to help maximize response rates.



Further Reading
Czaja, R. and Blair, J. (2005) Designing Surveys: A Guide to
                                Decisions and Procedures, 2nd edn. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage. An
                            excellent introduction to the various survey methods, plus practical
                            advice on survey design and writing questionnaires.
De Vaus, D.A. (2002) Surveys in Social Research, 5th edn. London:
                            George Allen & Unwin. One of the most comprehensive texts
                            available, it includes useful advice on constructing and administering
                            questionnaires for surveys and details of statistical tests used in
                            survey analysis. An added bonus is the presentation of many useful
                            websites.
Fowler, F.J. (2009) Survey Research Methods, 4th edn. Thousand
                            Oaks, CA: Sage. The 4th edition pays more attention to the use of the
                            Internet in survey research, discusses the sharp drop in response rates
                            to telephone surveys and provides advice on reducing error in
                            surveys.
Rea, L.M. and Parker, R.A.
                            (2005) Designing and Conducting Survey Research, 3rd edn. San
                            Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass. First published in 1992, this is a
                            comprehensive and accessible book that covers the field, including the
                            construction of survey instruments, survey administration and data
                            analysis.


Journal Resources
Calvo, S. (2014) 'London 2012: Missed out on Olympics contracts? A
                            case study of ethnic minority organisations in East London',
                                Local Economy, 29(1): 82-97. Provides an example of
                            telephone interviews with 200 local businesses.
Martínez-Tur, V., Peiró, J.M. and Ramos, J. (2005)
                            'Linking situational constraints to customer satisfaction in a
                            service environment', Applied Psychology: An International
                                Review, 54(1): 25-36. Example of a customer satisfaction
                            survey.
Stefan, J., Jacob, C. and Gueguen, N. (2015) 'The interviewer wore
                            a flower in her hair: The effect of hair ornamentation on compliance to
                            a survey request', Field Methods, 1(10): 1-10.
                            Discusses various methods used (or tried) to boost survey responses,
                            including the method mentioned in the title.

Don't forget to visit the companion website at https://study.sagepub.com/grayresearchbusiness for the
                                following resources which support this chapter:


















11 Designing Case Studies For
                        Business

Chapter Introduction

Chapter Outline
When should we use case studies?The case study design processTypes of case study designData collection sourcesQuality in case studies: validity and reliabilityAnalysing the evidenceComposing case study reports


Keywords
Case study designCausal relationshipsMultiple data sourcesUnit of analysisConverging evidenceCross-case comparisons



Icon Key







Author Video







Chapter Objectives
After reading this chapter you will be able to:
Describe the purpose of case studies.Plan a systematic approach to case study design.Recognize the strengths and limitations of case studies as a
                                        research method.Compose a case study report that is appropriately structured
                                        and presented.



We saw in Chapter 10 that surveys are used
                            where large amounts of data have to be collected, often from a large,
                            diverse and widely distributed population. In contrast, case studies
                            tend to be much more specific in focus. Indeed, according to Eisenhardt
                            (1989) the case study is a research strategy which focuses on gaining an
                            understanding of the dynamics present within single settings. While
                            surveys tend to collect data on a limited range of topics but from many
                            people, case studies can explore many themes and subjects, but from a
                            much more focused range of people, organizations or contexts. As Tight
                            (2010) makes clear, case study research involves a detailed examination
                            of a small sample of interest, and typically also from a particular
                            perspective. A case may be an individual, an organization, a role, a
                            community or a nation (Punch, 2005). For many student projects, an
                            organization they can get access to, becomes their case study.
Case studies typically combine data collection methods from a wide
                            variety of sources including archives, interviews, surveys, visual
                            methods and participant observation (Dooley, 2002). The case study
                            method can be used for a wide variety of issues, including the
                            evaluation of training programmes (a common subject), organizational
                            performance, project design and implementation, policy analysis, and
                            relationships between different sectors of an organization or between
                            organizations. In terms of disciplines, case study research has been
                            used extensively in health services research, political science, social
                            work, architecture, operations research and business management (Taylor,
                            Dossick and Garvin, 2011). According to Stake (2000), case studies can
                            prove invaluable in adding to understanding, extending experience and
                            increasing conviction about a subject. The case study approach can be
                            used as both a qualitative and quantitative method (Dooley,
                            2002). However, just a brief look at case studies shows why they are
                            more often used qualitatively. Yin (2009) defines the case study as

... an empirical inquiry that
investigates a contemporary phenomenon within its real-life
                                        context, especially whenthe boundaries between phenomenon and context are not
                                        clearly evident. (Yin, 2009: 13)

Case studies, then, explore subjects and issues where relationships may
                            be ambiguous or uncertain. But, in contrast to methods such as
                            descriptive surveys, case studies are also trying to attribute
                                causal relationships and are not just describing a situation.
                            The approach is particularly useful when the researcher is trying to
                            uncover a relationship between a phenomenon and the context in which it
                            is occurring. For example, a business might want to evaluate the factors
                            that have made a recent merger a success (to prepare the ground for
                            future mergers). The problem here, as with all case studies, is that the
                            contextual variables (timing, global economic circumstances, cultures of
                            the merging organizations, etc.) are so numerous that a purely
                            experimental approach revealing causal associations would simply be
                            unfeasible.
The case study approach
                            requires the collection of multiple sources of data but, if the
                            researcher is not to be overwhelmed, these need to become focused in
                            some way. Therefore case studies benefit from the prior development of a
                            theoretical position to help direct the data collection and analysis
                            process, and the creation of a defined focus through an initial
                            definition of a research question (Eisenhardt, 1989). Note, then, that
                            the case study method tends to be deductive rather than inductive in
                            character (although, as we shall see, this is not always the case). It
                            is also, contrary to popular opinion, often a demanding and difficult
                            approach, because there are no particular standardized techniques as one
                            would find, say, with experimental design. Yin (2009, 2012), one of the
                            authorities on case study research, who we will refer to extensively in
                            this chapter, also stresses the wide range of skills and flexibility
                            required by case study investigators.


When Should We Use Case Studies?
The case study method is ideal when a 'how' or
                            'why' question is being asked about a contemporary set of
                            events over which the researcher has no control. As Table
                                11.1 shows, 'what', 'who' and
                            'where' questions are likely to favour a survey approach,
                            or the use of archival records (unobtrusive measures - see Chapter 19), where it is important
                            to show the incidence of a factor. So, a business that seeks to
                            understand more about its high level of staff turnover can turn to its
                            human resources records to see the figures. If it wants to understand
                            more about why people leave and how this high turnover
                            affects labour productivity and staff morale, a case study would be able
                            to deal with this more explanatory issue and to illuminate key
                            features.



Case Study Example




Source: Adapted from COSMOS
                                Corporation, in Yin, 2009


Activity 11.1
Examine the following scenario and, using Table
                                    11.1, suggest which research strategy or strategies could be
                                used to address it.
The government is aware that what have been termed 'innovation
                                hubs' have emerged in some inner-city areas, urban spaces in
                                which small, high-tech firms have congregated. Policy makers want to
                                know more about these hubs to understand what led to their growth
                                and, crucially, what economic benefits are gained by the firms
                                themselves, and the local and regional economies as a whole.



You probably decided that some
                            of these firms could be used as case studies to explore why they
                            located in this particular locality, and what benefits have
                            emerged in terms of access to a skilled workforce and how they
                            gain from sharing of information and knowledge with nearby high-tech
                            companies. The case study approach is not dissimilar to the use of
                            unobtrusive measures such as documents, archives and the use of
                            historical evidence - in each case no attempt is made to
                            manipulate behaviours. But while unobtrusive measures can only rely on
                            the use of existing documentation (historical or contemporary), case
                            studies tend to focus on collecting up-to-date information. For this
                            reason, data collection may involve the use of not only contemporary
                            documentation, but also direct observation and systematic
                            interviewing.
Nevertheless, as Yin (2009) makes clear, the case study approach has not
                            been universally accepted by researchers as reliable, objective and
                            legitimate. One problem is that it is often difficult (indeed,
                            dangerous) to generalize from a specific case. But, in defence of case
                            studies, Yin points out that most scientific inquiries have to be
                            replicated by multiple examples of the experiment, and case studies too
                            can be based upon multiple cases of the same issue or phenomenon.
                            Gummesson (2000) supports this view, asserting that, even in medicine,
                            doctors' skills are often built up from a knowledge of many
                            individual cases.



Case Study Theory


Another criticism of case studies is the amount of time they take and the
                            volume of documentation they generate. But Yin argues that this is to
                            confuse case studies with one particular type, the use of ethnographic
                            or participant observation studies where the amount of data collected
                            can be vast. The one argument that Yin (2009) does concede is that
                            conducting case studies successfully is an uncommon skill.


The Case Study Design Process
Before embarking on the design process itself, Yin (2009) recommends that
                            the investigator is thoroughly prepared for the case study process. This
                            includes being able to formulate and ask good research questions and to
                            interpret the answers. This means turning off his or her own
                            interpretative 'filters' and actually noting what is being
                            said, or done (recall the discussion of phenomenology in Chapter 2). The investigator must be
                            able to respond quickly to the flow of answers and to pose new questions
                            or issues. Having a firm grasp of the theoretical principles involved
                            will obviously help because issues will be thrown into sharp relief if
                            the data contradict what was expected. This, again, reinforces the
                            importance of the deductive approach. But the case study approach can
                            also generate data that help towards the development of theory -
                            and is, hence, inductive. So which is most important?

Should We Use Inductive Or Deductive Approaches?
A possible relationship between induction and deduction in case study
                                research is illustrated by Perry (1998). In the left side of Figure 11.1, the first (extreme
                                left-hand) case study is purely inductive or exploratory, starting
                                from no theoretical position (pure grounded theory - see Chapter 25). Data collection
                                and analysis in the next case study are informed by some of the
                                concepts found in the first study. But it is difficult to draw
                                inferences through this approach because, as new findings are
                                generated with each study, the focus of subsequent studies (and the
                                kinds of questions that are asked) begins to shift. Hence, data from
                                each study cannot be compared, because we would not be comparing
                                like with like.



Planning Case Studies


Figure 11.1 A
                                    comparison of two case study positions: inductive and
                                    deductiveSource: Adapted from Perry,
                                    1998
This problem is overcome by the more deductive, or at least
                                confirmatory, approach on the right side of Figure
                                    11.1. Here, the first case study could constitute a pilot
                                case, which establishes the theoretical boundaries and then the data
                                gathering protocol and tools for all the remaining studies. The
                                initial theory is then confirmed or rejected by cross-case data
                                analysis across all the main case studies.
This approach is confirmed by Yin (2009), who also argues that, after
                                adopting a particularly theoretical position, the research proceeds
                                through a series of case studies, allowing for cross-case
                                comparisons to be taken. In essence, Yin suggests that the research
                                should progress through a series of stages (see Figure
                                    11.2), each of which is described in more detail in the next
                                section.
Figure 11.2
                                    Multiple case study methodSource: Adapted from Yin, 2009



A Case Study Process

Developing A Theoretical Stance
Building theory from case study research is most appropriate when
                                    the topic is relatively new, or when there is a need to inject
                                    some fresh perspectives into a theme that is well known
                                    (Eisenhardt, 1989). A provisional hypothesis or set of questions
                                    is developed - provisional in the sense that they are
                                    open to further improvement or modification during the process
                                    of the study. Hypotheses or questions should be linked, where
                                    possible, with previous research - hence, the first stage
                                    of the case study process is usually a thorough literature
                                    review to discover what past research has been done (Dooley,
                                    2002). This is also an opportunity to identify rival hypotheses
                                    and theories, both of which will help in the analysis of the
                                    results. However, given that case study research is flexible and
                                    may follow leads into new areas, the theoretical framework that
                                    is adopted at the beginning of a study may not be the one that
                                    survives to the end (Hartley, 2004).



Case Study Theory


Let us take the example of a case study that seeks to evaluate
                                    the software development process for the building of an
                                    organization's intranet Web portal. The hypothesis is
                                    that: for Web portal design, the traditional principles of the
                                    software development 'life cycle' lead to project
                                    failure. Then, using what Yin (2012) calls analytic
                                        generalization, we are able to compare and contrast the
                                    results of the case study with an accepted set of principles or
                                    theory. If two or more cases are shown to support the theory,
                                    then it becomes possible to make a claim that the theory has
                                    been replicated. Yin warns, however, that while analytical
                                    generalization is appropriate, statistical generalization is
                                    certainly not. It should not be assumed, for example, that the
                                    results of a case study can be generalized to a larger
                                    population as one would do in an experimental or
                                    quasi-experimental design.



Case Studies in Research: Small and
                                            Medium Sized Enterprises




Selecting Cases
The selection of cases is important in case study research
                                    especially where the intention is to build theory from the cases
                                    (Eisenhardt, 1989). While the cases may be chosen randomly, this
                                    is neither necessary nor preferable. Given that the number of
                                    cases studied is usually quite limited, it makes sense to choose
                                    those that are polar or extreme types. This helps to ensure that
                                    the entity under investigation is transparently observable. Once
                                    cases are selected, the main and subordinate units of analysis
                                    are provisionally defined. For example, the organization itself
                                    might be the main unit of analysis, with departments or
                                    geographically dispersed sites the subordinate units. Note that
                                    the main and subordinate units of analysis may require different
                                    research tools. While there is no ideal number of cases,
                                    Eisenhardt (1989) suggests that between four and ten cases
                                    usually works well. With fewer than four cases it is often
                                    difficult to generate theory with much complexity and the
                                    empirical underpinning is likely to be unconvincing unless there
                                    are several sub-cases within them. With more than ten cases the
                                    volume of data can quickly become overwhelming.


Designing And Piloting Research Tools, Protocols
                                    And Field Procedures
In the design process, care should be taken to ensure that all
                                    tools match the original hypothesis and research objectives.
                                    Protocols involve the design of a structured set of processes or
                                        procedures, often
                                    linked to how the research tool is to be administered. For
                                    example, a protocol might be used to specify to an interviewer
                                    exactly how the interview is to be conducted, and how the
                                    interview schedule is to be used.
One of the key design issues in the case study method is the
                                    definition of the unit of analysis, and then ensuring
                                    that this unit of analysis fits with the research objectives of
                                    the study. Taking our Web portal development example, it is this
                                        process that is the unit of analysis and not the look
                                    or functionality of the portal itself (although this could be
                                    the subject of a different case study). The conceptual framework
                                    here is the software development process, including design,
                                    prototyping, development, testing and implementation. The study
                                    could also explore the group dynamics (another process) between
                                    the Web development team involved in building the portal, to
                                    understand how their efforts can be improved in future Web
                                    projects.



Application of Case Study
                                            Methodology




Conducting A Case Study Or Multiple Studies
The data are collected, analysed and synthesized into individual
                                    case study reports. This is unlikely to occur in a sequential
                                    process. So there may be circumstances when analysis raises new
                                    questions for which new units of analysis may have to be
                                    formulated and additional data collected. Each of the case
                                    studies is regarded as a study in its own right, so one of the
                                    key steps is to conduct within-case analysis, with a detailed
                                    write-up for each case study site (Eisenhardt, 1989) so that the
                                    researcher can identify unique patterns within each case. But
                                    the findings of each case need to produce converging
                                        evidence, so that the data from one case replicate the
                                    data from another. Think in terms of the police detective at the
                                    scene of a crime looking for multiple pieces of evidence that,
                                    together, add up to a clear 'picture' or
                                    solution.
However, while much of the data may serve to
                                    'prove' or illustrate an issue or phenomenon,
                                    negative instances may also make a vital contribution to the
                                    analysis. Kidder (1981), for example, shows how an initial
                                    hypothesis can be continually revised (on the basis of negative
                                    or contradictory data) until it can be validated by the data.
                                    Case studies can also sometimes be illuminated by key events.
                                    The routine of office life, for example, may serve to obscure
                                    phenomena or trends whereas a key event such as a staff
                                    'away day' or a new computer system going
                                    'live' may throw up revealing tensions and social
                                    dynamics.
In terms of data collection, the case study method requires the
                                    use of multiple sources of evidence. This might include
                                    the use of structured, semi-structured or open interviews, field
                                    observations or document analysis. As we saw in Chapter 6, multiple sources
                                    of data also help address the issue of construct validity
                                    because the multiple sources of evidence should provide multiple
                                    measures of the same construct. Case Study 11.1 provides an
                                    example of how rich data can be collected from multiple sources
                                    (interviews and observation) in order to develop a case
                                    study.

Top Tip 11.1
Consider using a case study only when you are certain that
                                        you can gain the levels and intensity of access you need to
                                        the case study persons or site. Ensure that it is practical
                                        and feasible to make use of the kinds of multiple data
                                        sources an effective case study requires. Also make
                                        enquiries early in the project, or well before you commence
                                        it, so you know whether you have access, or not.



Case Study 11.1

Human Resource Functions In Small Indian
                                            Private Hospitals
Kumar, Yadov and Chowdhary (2010) describe a research
                                            project which looked at the human resource (HR)
                                            functions in for-profit hospitals in India. The sampling
                                            design for the study comprised 30 small hospitals
                                            distributed across all seven divisional headquarters of
                                            the state of Rajasthan, with the unit of analysis being
                                            each hospital. The researchers adopted an
                                            exploratory-multi-case design, the exploratory nature of
                                            the study resulting from the limited information on the
                                            subject. The value of the case study approach as a
                                            research tool is its ability to record behaviour at
                                            close range, allowing researchers and participants to
                                            interpret the reality of their experience. Kumar et al.
                                            (2010) make it clear that the study deploys
                                            'replication logic' rather than
                                            'sampling logic', with each case being
                                            viewed as an independent study, with the researchers
                                            seeking to identify patterns across the cases to yield
                                            new insights. As suggested by Yin (2009), a data
                                            gathering protocol (interview schedule) was developed.
                                            However, during the interviews the order of questions
                                            sometimes changed according to how the conversation
                                            turned out and the amount of knowledge the respondent
                                            possessed. The fact that the area of responsibility
                                            differed between respondents meant that some questions
                                            were not answered by everyone. In most cases it was the
                                            doctor-entrepreneur that was interviewed, or a member of
                                            staff who had some responsibility for the human resource
                                            function.
Findings showed that these small, privately run
                                            hospitals, employed between 10 and 50 people, with
                                            smaller hospitals relying on an administrator for the
                                            general management of human resources. These
                                            administrators spent a significant amount of time
                                            addressing legal issues including contracts, joint
                                            ventures, networking and HR management. Only three
                                            hospitals used the phrase 'HR manager' for
                                            a separate, designated post. In most cases it was the
                                            owner-promoter who took care of HR (21 cases). More
                                            established hospitals tended to employ people on more
                                            regular contracts rather than on a casual basis. All 30
                                            hospitals recognized the importance of HR planning but
                                            did it in different ways. Of the 30 hospitals, 18 did
                                            not have a well-defined role for managing HR and there
                                            was no grievance handling mechanism. The researchers
                                            observed that the HR function depended much on the
                                            individual personality and the management style of the
                                            owner. Hence, the data gathering approach within the
                                            study relied largely on interviews, but contained an
                                            observational element.



Activity 11.2
Look back at Case Study 11.1.
Identify the implicit research questions in the
                                                study.What is the unit of analysis?What are the multiple sources of evidence?
Suggested answers are provided at the end of the chapter.



Creating A Case Study Database (Optional)
This process is to ensure that information is collected
                                    systematically and that it is logically ordered in the database
                                    as well as being easily accessible. One factor that
                                    distinguishes the case study approach from other research
                                    methods is that the case study data and the case study report are often one and the
                                    same. But all case studies should contain a presentable database
                                    so that other researchers and interested parties can review the
                                    data as well as final written reports. Allowing other
                                    researchers to evaluate the data or to replicate it increases
                                    the reliability of the case study. Case study databases
                                    can take a variety of formats, including the use of:
Case study notes resulting from observations,
                                            interviews or document analysis, and may take the form
                                            of computer files (word processed or an actual
                                            database), diary entries or index cards. Whatever form
                                            they take, it is essential that they are put into
                                            categories and that these can be accessed quickly and
                                            easily. Obviously, computer-based files are more
                                            efficient in terms of both storage space and search
                                            facilities.Case study documents, which need to be carefully
                                            stored and an annotated bibliography produced for ease
                                            of later analysis and retrieval.Tabular materials of quantitative data.



Case Study Databases




Drawing Cross-Case Conclusions
After within-case analysis (see above), researchers will then
                                    look for patterns across cases by searching for similarities and
                                    differences. The dimensions measured can be those that emerged
                                    from previous literature searches, or can be chosen by the
                                    researcher (Eisenhardt, 1989). Another approach is to select
                                    pairs of cases and then list the similarities or differences
                                    between each pair. An alternative strategy is to analyse the
                                    cases by data source, that is, the researcher scours the
                                    interview data for cross-case comparisons, then examines survey
                                    data across the cases, etc. From within-case comparisons and
                                    cross-case analysis, tentative themes, concepts and even
                                    relationships between variables may emerge (Eisenhardt, 1989)
                                    with the researcher constantly comparing theory and data,
                                    iteratively moving towards a close fit between the two.


Writing The Case Study Report
One of the problems with case studies is that they tend to
                                    produce large volumes of data, held in a case study database.
                                    The report writing stage, then, can sometimes appear quite
                                    daunting. Patton (2002) suggests that a useful intermediary step
                                    between this database and the writing of the case study report
                                    (which he terms a narrative) is the construction of a case
                                    record (see Table 11.2). Each record
                                    contains an edited and more condensed version of each case.


Source: Adapted from Patton,
                                        1990

The case study report is conceptually linked back to the case
                                    study records and raw case data through a 'chain of
                                    evidence', including tables, reproduced documents,
                                    vignettes, etc. These
                                    allow the reader (such as another researcher, or the case
                                    study's sponsor) to question and even re-interpret the
                                    data if necessary. The evidence in the database should also be
                                    consistent with the questions and procedures cited in the case
                                    study protocol. Allowing a researcher to successfully check the
                                    chain of evidence increases the reliability of the case
                                    study if more than one researcher uses the data to come to
                                    similar conclusions (inter-judge reliability).
The task of report writing is much easier, and the results are
                                    likely to be more coherent, if the previous stages have been
                                    observed carefully; for example, if a case study protocol has
                                    been drawn up and implemented, and if individual case study
                                    reports have been written up and conclusions drawn. (See
                                    Composing case study reports, p. 293, for details of report
                                    types and structures.)




Types Of Case Study Design
Whatever the precise case study design chosen, it is essential that the
                            case study takes the reader into the case situation. This means that
                            descriptions should be holistic and comprehensive and should include
                            'myriad dimensions, factors, variables, and categories woven
                            together into an idiographic framework' (Patton, 1990: 387). The
                            design process for case studies involves deciding whether the unit of
                            analysis for the study will be an individual case (for example, a person
                            or organization) or multiple cases. Stake (2005) identifies three types
                            of case study:
Intrinsic, to better understand a particular case.Instrumental, to provide insight into an issue or to create a
                                    generalization.Multiple or collective, when a number of cases are studied
                                    jointly to investigate a phenomenon, population or general
                                    condition.



Types of Case Studies


Figure 11.3 Main
                                types of case study design
Yin (2009) proposes four main
                            types of case study design, as represented in Figure
                                11.3, each of which needs to be selected on the basis of
                            particular sets of conditions. This shows that case studies can be based
                            upon single or multiple case designs and on single or multiple units of
                            analysis.

Type 1: Single Case Study, Holistic
In this type of study, only a single case is examined, and at a
                                holistic level, for example, an entire educational programme, not
                                individual elements (modules) within it. The single case study
                                should be chosen when it can play a significant role in testing a
                                hypothesis or theory. Another reason is when the case study
                                represents a unique or extreme case, or a revelatory case, where,
                                for example, a researcher is allowed into a previously sensitive or
                                secretive organization to carry out research (for example, an
                                organization fulfilling contracts for the military). There may be
                                other times when a single case study is merely the precursor to
                                further studies and may perhaps be a pilot for a later multiple
                                study.


Type 2: Single Case, Embedded
Within a single case study, there may be a number of different units
                                of analysis. For example, let us take a case study looking at the
                                implementation of a mentoring programme. This is a single case (the
                                mentoring programme) but the multiple units of analysis here might
                                comprise:
The official mentoring processes as laid down by the
                                        company's mentoring handbook.The perspectives of mentors.The perspectives of mentees.Tangible evidence that the mentoring system improves company
                                        collaboration, networking and morale.


Type 3: Multiple Case, Holistic
Where the multiple case study approach is needed (say, to improve the
                                reliability or generalizability of the study) but it is not possible
                                to identify multiple units of analysis, then a more holistic
                                approach can be taken. Let us use the example of a region comprising
                                several hospitals that is attempting to improve its communication
                                processes through the implementation of a specially designed
                                training programme. A researcher might use this communications
                                training programme as a single, holistic unit of analysis, but look
                                at the operation of the programme in all of the hospitals (multiple
                                cases) and over a number of months. The aim here is not to increase
                                the size of the hospital 'sample', but to
                                    replicate the findings of one case across a number of
                                cases. In this sense, the approach is not very dissimilar to that of
                                experimentation, where an attempt is made to replicate the findings
                                of one experiment over a number of instances, to lend compelling
                                support for an initial set of propositions. Figure
                                    11.4 illustrates this.
Yin (2009), however, warns that a very serious danger of holistic
                                designs is that the nature of the study may begin to shift under the
                                very nose of the researcher. Hence, the researcher may have begun
                                the investigation on the basis of one set of questions, but the
                                evidence from the case study may begin to address a very different
                                set of questions (recall the left-hand side of Figure
                                    11.1). This is such a threat to the validity of the study
                                that Yin (2009) argues that the only recourse is to begin the study
                                again with a new research design.
Figure 11.4
                                    Replication through use of multiple casesSource: Adapted from Flick,
                                    2009


Type 4: Multiple Case, Embedded
The problems faced by holistic case studies can be reduced if
                                multiple units of analysis are used which allow for more sensitivity
                                and for any slippage between research questions and the direction of
                                the study to be identified at a much earlier stage. So, taking our
                                example of the mentoring programme in 'Type 2: Single case
                                embedded' above, the evidence from this one organization
                                might not produce convincing evidence. But addressing the various
                                units of analysis across, say, ten organizations, would offer an
                                opportunity to produce a compelling argument. But one of the dangers
                                of embedded designs is that the sub-units of analysis may become the
                                focus of the study itself (for example, the experiences of mentees),
                                diverting attention away from the larger elements of analysis (does
                                the programme work?).
Nevertheless, one of the advantages of multiple case studies is
                                replication (see Figure 11.4, above). But how
                                many case studies are sufficient for multiple case design? As we saw
                                earlier, Eisenhardt (1989) suggests that between four and ten is
                                often sufficient. If external validity (the generalizability of the
                                results - see Chapter 6) is important, or if
                                it is feared that each study may produce quite divergent results,
                                then it is safest to maximize the number of studies. The key here
                                will not be to aim for measures of statistical significance
                                but for at least some semblance of reliability and credibility.

Top Tip 11.2
If you are undertaking a doctoral qualification, you may have the
                                    time and resources to conduct a multiple case study. If,
                                    however, you are studying at Masters or even undergraduate
                                    level, you are best advised to stay clear of multiple case
                                    studies. This is mostly because the number of cases needed to
                                    reach data saturation is impossible to predict in advance, and
                                    you may overrun your timescales for completing your
                                    research.



Top Tip: Undertaking Case Studies







Data Collection Sources
One of the features of case study research is its flexibility. Hence,
                            adjustments might be made during the data collection process by deciding
                            to make use of additional data collection sources, an approach that
                            Eisenhardt (1989: 539) refers to as 'controlled
                            opportunism'. Yin (2009, 2012) suggests that there are broadly
                            six main sources of case study data, each of which have their own
                            strengths and weaknesses, which are summarized in Table
                                11.3. It should be noted that these sources are not mutually
                            exclusive, with a good case study tending to use multiple sources of
                            evidence. Note that each of these data collection sources is discussed
                            in detail in later chapters.



Secondary Case Studies




Source: Adapted from Yin, 2009



Activity 11.3
A new Managing Director takes over at Zenco, a manufacturer of engine
                                parts for the automobile industry. His first decision, in a major
                                cost-cutting exercise, is to scrap the headquarters'
                                Reception desk and make the staff who work in it redundant. In its
                                place, visitors have to complete their own security passes and use
                                the internal company telephone directory to inform their client that
                                they have arrived. After six months, you are asked by the MD to
                                carry out a small case study on how the new system is working.
What kind of research questions would you seek to
                                        address?Which of the following data gathering methods would you use:
                                        survey, observation, interview, archival records? Would you
                                        favour just one of these methods or use a combination?
Suggested answers are provided at the end of the chapter.



Quality In Case Studies: Validity And Reliability
As we have seen in other research methods, and already in this chapter,
                            the issues of validity and reliability are never far from the surface.
                            They are probably of particular importance for the case study method
                            because of the reliance on data that is generated from either limited or
                            particular samples or situations.

Construct Validity



Teamwork Case Study


Construct validity refers to the quality of the conceptualization or
                                operationalization of the relevant concepts (Gibbert, Ruigrok and
                                Wicki, 2008), that is, the extent to which the study investigates
                                what it claims to investigate (Denzin and Lincoln, 1994). However,
                                as Yin (2009) points out construct validity is particularly
                                problematic for case studies, because of the difficulty of defining
                                the constructs being investigated. For example, let us say that a
                                researcher is asked to investigate the extent to which team work
                                within groups of office workers and between groups has improved over
                                a 12-month period. The problem here is how the concept of team work
                                is defined, leaving the danger that the researcher will base this on
                                his or her subjective impressions. This can only be avoided if the
                                researcher:
Operationally defines the concept 'team work'
                                        at the outset (particularly in the context of the project,
                                        in this case, office work).Selects appropriate measurement instruments and/or data
                                        sources for the defined concept (for example interviews with
                                        members of the work team or focus groups).Uses multiple sources of data in a way that encourages
                                        divergent lines of inquiry (for example, interview data and
                                        documentation).Establishes a chain of evidence during the data collection
                                        process (linking findings and recommendations to the data,
                                        providing evidence that the two are connected).Evaluates the draft case study report through feedback from
                                        key informants (who in this case are likely to include
                                        managers of sections or departments).



Internal Validity
This issue arises with causal (as opposed to descriptive) case
                                studies where the researcher is attempting to show that event
                                    x led to outcome y. As we saw in Chapter 6, in research designs
                                that attempt to demonstrate causality, the dangerous impact of
                                extraneous variables always threatens. Taking our previous example
                                of team work within the group of office workers, we may be trying to
                                'prove' that improvements have occurred as a result of
                                an intensive training programme in team building initiated by senior
                                management. The challenge will be to find significant associations
                                between the training programme and better team work and that the
                                recent introduction of 'flat' management structures
                                (in this case, an extraneous variable) was not the main source of
                                improvement.



Internal Validity


Another threat to internal validity comes from the problem of making
                                inferences from the data, when it is simply not possible to actually
                                observe the event. Hence, the researcher will 'infer'
                                that something has occurred based upon case study interview data or
                                documentary evidence. But is it logical and safe to make this
                                inference? Gibbert et al. (2008) suggest three measures for
                                enhancing internal validity. First, case study researchers should
                                formulate a clear research framework that demonstrates that
                                variable x leads to outcome y. Secondly, through
                                    pattern matching, researchers should compare empirically
                                observed patterns with either predicted ones, or with patterns
                                identified in previous studies (Denzin and Lincoln, 1994;
                                Eisenhardt, 1989). Thirdly, theory triangulation allows the
                                researcher to verify the findings from multiple perspectives (Yin,
                                2009).


External Validity
This addresses one of the most problematic issues faced by the case
                                study approach - whether its findings can be generalized
                                beyond the study itself. Of course, not all would agree that
                                generalizability should be a goal of research. Lincoln and Guba
                                (2000) assert that generalizations inevitably alter over time, so
                                that they become of only historical interest. There are no absolutes
                                and all 'truth' is relative. But Schofield (2000)
                                argues that generalizing is also becoming important in qualitative
                                research. This is partly because the approach is increasingly being
                                used in high profile studies often linked to evaluation. Funding
                                agencies for large-scale projects also want to see that findings
                                have a wider applicability than to just the project itself.



External Validity


Taking our example of team work in the social workers group, to what
                                extent are we able to say that if the training programme did, in
                                fact, help towards better team work, the programme would have a
                                similar impact in other project groups within the organization, or,
                                indeed, in quite different organizations? Gomm et al. (2000) point
                                out that a significant amount of case study research does, indeed,
                                try to make claims for studies that go beyond the original case.
                                They also claim that case study research should be directed towards
                                drawing general conclusions. But how, in practice, should this be
                                done?
The problem faced is that the data collected in the case study may
                                not be representative of the population as a whole (or merely
                                representative of those features that are the focus of the
                                research). Nevertheless, Gomm et al. (2000) advise that researchers
                                can improve the empirical generalizability of a case study by:
Providing evidence about the 'fit' of key
                                        characteristics between the sample and the population (for
                                        example, showing that our group of social workers are
                                        typical of social workers in general - we could
                                        mention age, gender composition, qualifications, experience,
                                        management structure, etc.); if information about the
                                        population is not available, a warning should be issued
                                        about the risks of generalizing from the particular case
                                            study.Using a systematic selection of cases for study, that is,
                                        making efforts to ensure, if possible, that cases are
                                        typical of the population. Too often cases are chosen on a
                                        convenience basis only.
Yin (2009) also defends case studies by pointing out that safer
                                grounds for making generalizations can be established if a study is
                                replicated three or four times in different circumstances. Dooley
                                (2002) advises that external validity can be strengthened by
                                relating the findings from one or multiple cases back to the
                                literature, showing that the results are theoretically feasible or
                                are supported by similar empirical studies.
Before accepting this, however, it is worth noting Lieberson's
                                (2000) note of caution. Referring to what he calls
                                    'small-Ns' (a small number of cases), he
                                warns that it is a bad basis from which to generalize. This is
                                because causal propositions are either deterministic or
                                    probabilistic. In the case of determinism, it is argued
                                that 'If x, then y', that is, the
                                presence of a given factor will lead to a specified outcome.
                                Probabilistic perspectives are more modest, claiming that
                                'the presence of x increases the likelihood of
                                    y occurring or its frequency'. The problem with
                                    small-N studies is that probabilistic measurement is
                                ruled out because of the small size of the sample - which
                                leaves us with deterministic measurement.
Lieberson (2000) uses the example of drink-driving and accidents.
                                Cases can be shown where drunken drivers are involved in accidents,
                                generating a deterministic relationship between the dependent
                                variable (accidents) and the independent variable (alcohol
                                consumption). But there are also cases where sober drivers have
                                accidents and drunk drivers do not. Small-N studies cannot
                                deal with interaction effects between variables (for example, the
                                interaction between alcohol consumption and driving speed, or
                                running through a red light), because they arbitrarily assume that
                                such interactions do not operate. According to Lieberson,
                                exceptionally rigorous practices are required to avoid these
                                methodological pitfalls. If a small number of cases is selected,
                                then it makes a great deal of difference whether the outcomes are
                                the same in each case, or not. A defensible solution for
                                generalization occurs where:
One variable is constant across all cases - so, the
                                        same independent variable, x, leads to the same
                                        dependent variable, y, over a range of cases.The dependent variable is different across the cases, and
                                        all but one independent variable is constant - so
                                        pointing to that independent variable as the cause of the
                                        changes.

Top Tip 11.3
If your case is one organization, and it was chosen by
                                    convenience, say, because you or a relative works there, this
                                    should alert you to thinking carefully about how typical or
                                    representative your case is of the general population. Single
                                    case studies are best used as exploratory rather than
                                    confirmatory studies. Be very cautious about generalizing and
                                    note the limitations of your study.



Reliability
Conditions for reliability are met if the findings and conclusions of
                                one researcher can be replicated by another researcher doing the
                                same case study. Bryman (2007a) supports this approach, arguing that
                                case study generalization is made more feasible by team research
                                where a group of researchers investigate a number of cases. As we
                                have seen, this can only be achieved if researchers conscientiously
                                document procedures through what Yin (2009) calls case study protocols and case study
                                databases. As discussed earlier, a protocol is a plan of data
                                collection instruments and also the procedures for using these
                                instruments (which subsequent researchers can follow). The
                                production of a protocol forces the investigator to think not only
                                about how the final case study report might be completed, but also
                                its intended audience. Yin (2009) recommends that a protocol should
                                contain the following sections:
An overview of the case study project, including objectives
                                        and theoretical issues.Field procedures, including: access to the case study
                                        'sites' and people; general sources of
                                        information; back up procedures including eliciting help, if
                                        needed, from colleagues; timescales; and contingency plans
                                        - for example, if interviewees decide not to
                                        cooperate.Case study questions, table templates for collecting data
                                        and the potential sources of information for answering each
                                        question.A structure and guide to the final report.



Reliability





Analysing The Evidence
The case study approach can be one of the most productive in terms of
                            collecting data, but here the problems can often begin. In contrast to
                            other methods, such as experimental design, there is less experience and
                            fewer developed strategies for analysing case study data. Nevertheless,
                            there are some general approaches that can be used with effect. We will
                            look, first of all, at some general strategies, and then at some
                            specific analytical methods.



Analyzing Case Studies



General Strategies
There are, essentially, two ways in which the case study evidence can
                                be analysed. The first is to analyse the data on the basis of the
                                original theoretical propositions and the research objectives that
                                flowed from them. The other is to develop a descriptive framework
                                once the case study has been completed. Yin (2009, 2012) recommends
                                that the former is preferable.

Theoretical Propositions
One of the purposes of theory is to assist the researcher in
                                    making choices between what is worth investigating and what
                                    wisely should be ignored (recall Chapter 1). Hence, the objectives and questions of the
                                    study are very likely to have been guided by its theoretical
                                    underpinning. For example, a case study exploring the impact of
                                    'whistleblowing' in the world of corporate banking
                                    would first delve into the meaning and history of whistleblowing
                                    in a variety of contexts as well as examining its origins in
                                    some of the principles and theories of virtue ethics. At the
                                    analysis stage itself, data can be compared and contrasted with
                                    what the theoretical models have predicted, and suppositions
                                    made about the extent to which the original propositions can be
                                    supported or rejected.


Descriptive Framework
This approach, as its name implies, is more descriptive than
                                    analytical, and can be used perhaps when a case study is chosen
                                    for a subject or issue for which an underlying theoretical
                                    proposition is not obvious. The descriptive framework can
                                    operate perhaps to identify the types of cases for which
                                    further, more quantitative analysis, should be applied. Of
                                    course, once the case research is completed, it might become
                                    more obvious as to what theoretical models are relevant and need
                                    to be addressed.




Analytical Methods
Since one of the objectives of data analysis is to find relationships
                                and contrasts between variables, some techniques are presented here
                                that facilitate this process.

Pattern Matching
The logic behind pattern matching is that the patterns to emerge
                                    from the data, match (or perhaps fail to match) those that were
                                    expected. Figure 11.5 illustrates two
                                    possible scenarios. With non-equivalent dependent variables
                                        as a pattern, a research study may have a number of
                                    dependent variables or outcomes that emerge from it. If, before
                                    the research is carried out, a number of predictions about the
                                    expected dependent variables are made, and are subsequently
                                    found, then this supports the internal validity of the study.
                                    Hence, in Figure 11.5 dependent
                                    variables A, B and C are predicted, resulting from changes in
                                    one or more independent variables.



Pattern Matching


Another type of pattern matching approach is the use of rival
                                        explanations as patterns. Here, several cases may be
                                    known to have a certain outcome, but there may be uncertainty as
                                    to the cause, that is, which independent variable is the
                                    determining one. Each of the different theoretical positions
                                    must be mutually exclusive, so finding the presence of one
                                    position excludes the presence of any other.
Take the example of a charitable organization that wants to
                                    understand the factors that increase its donation receipts
                                    (dependent variable). Case study research is initiated that
                                    explores several cases of positive fluctuations in its income
                                    stream. It finds two cases when extensive media coverage of a
                                    national overseas disaster leads to a 40 per cent short-term
                                    rise in donations. A rival theoretical position, that media
                                    advertising produces a higher income stream, is found to be
                                    inconclusive - on some occasions income rises modestly,
                                    on other occasions hardly at all. Hence, the theoretical
                                    position, that donations are a product of media coverage of
                                    disasters, is accepted. Case Study 11.2 provides an illustration
                                    of how pattern matching can be used.
Figure
                                            11.5 Pattern matching of case study data


Case Study 11.2

A Case Study Of Team Working
A year ago, the CopyMatch printing company faced mounting
                                            financial losses and decided that it needed to
                                            restructure its organization. Its sales representatives
                                            earned most of their income through incentive bonuses
                                            and, therefore, tried to maximize both their number of
                                            clients and sales per client. But often this meant that
                                            they took very specialist and small-scale orders that
                                            were time consuming to set up, and therefore
                                            unproductive and costly to execute. This, of course, was
                                            of little concern to the sales 'reps'
                                            since they were maximizing their own income.
As part of the restructuring, the workforce was divided
                                            into five teams, each of which contained different
                                            combinations of sales representatives, production
                                            managers, production supervisors and print workers.
                                            Through these cooperative teams it was intended that
                                            sales representatives would be influenced and informed
                                            by those more knowledgeable of the production cycle. The
                                            company wanted to monitor the impact of the
                                            reorganization and set up a research project, based upon
                                            this single case study. The dependent variables
                                            (outcomes) of the reorganization were predicted as:
More orders will be fulfilled to specified
                                                  times.Estimates of customer satisfaction will rise and
                                                  there will be fewer customer complaints.Larger-scale print runs will be undertaken.Levels of employee satisfaction will rise.
The research study measured the impact of each type of
                                            team (non-equivalent independent variables) to find
                                            whether the new structure was more effective than the
                                            old one, and which combination of workers had the
                                            greatest effect on outcomes.



Activity 11.4
For Case Study 11.2:
Suggest an appropriate case study design. For
                                                example, what would you choose as the source of
                                                measurement?What are the independent variables? Would you treat
                                                the project as one case, or each of the teams as
                                                sub-cases?
Suggested answers are provided at the end of the chapter.



We saw in Case Study 11.2 that all the predicted independent
                                    variables were present, lending considerable weight to the
                                    validity of the assertion that the use of production teams
                                    increases efficiency, productivity and customer and employee
                                    satisfaction. If, however, even just one of these outcomes was
                                    not found, the initial proposition could not be supported.
                                    Conversely, if another company also used this type of team
                                    organization and came up with equivalent results, then this
                                    replication of the findings would lend further weight to the
                                    proposition.


Explanation Building
This strategy is a special kind of pattern matching, but is less
                                    structured. Let us say that we want to find an explanation for a
                                    problem - to reveal its underlying causes. If these are
                                    not to be either
                                    subjective or anecdotal, it helps if these causes are located
                                    within some sort of theoretical proposition. We would first of
                                    all make an initial statement or proposition based upon this
                                    theoretical position. Next, we would compare the findings of an
                                    initial case study against this proposition, and amend the
                                    proposition if necessary. Another case study is taken and the
                                    proposition amended, etc. The process is repeated as many times
                                    as is considered necessary. At all times it is essential that
                                    rival explanations are also considered and solid grounds sought
                                    for accepting or rejecting them.



Explanation Building




Time-Series Analysis
In time-series analysis, data on dependent or independent
                                    variables are traced over time so that predicted patterns can be
                                    compared with the actual patterns that emerge and inferences
                                    drawn. What is important here is that valid indicators are
                                    selected that match the objectives of the study. Case Study 11.3
                                    provides an illustration.

Case Study 11.3

Time-Series Analysis
A large-scale retail park is built on a green-field site
                                            on the periphery of a medium-sized city. The impact of
                                            such a development is measured over time, so a
                                            time-series analysis is appropriate here. As usual, we
                                            start with a theoretical position or proposition, in
                                            this case, that the retail park will impact on the
                                            nearby town and locality in a number of ways. First, it
                                            will increase the pace of mid-town urban degeneration,
                                            in the first place by the closure of various shops and
                                            stores, followed, in time, by changing patterns of urban
                                            residence - higher income families moving out
                                            towards the suburbs. Secondly, increased urban
                                            degeneration will increase crime patterns in this
                                            locality. Thirdly, traffic flows will change with new
                                            congestion 'blackspots' emerging in feeder
                                            roads to the retail park. Data are collected on an
                                            annual basis over five years through observation, local
                                            government records and crime statistics.



Time Series Analyses in
                                                  Practice





Activity 11.5
In Case Study 11.3 identify the independent and dependent
                                        variables. To what extent can you be sure that changes in
                                        the dependent variable result from the impact of the
                                        independent variable and not from other factors?
Suggested answers are provided at the end of the chapter.



Case Study 11.3 is an example of an interrupted
                                        time-series because the data on, say, patterns of retail
                                    spending in the inner city are known before the retail park is
                                    built and can be compared with those after its completion. Using
                                    a complex time-series, we could postulate that a negative
                                    trend in a set of data points will be followed by a rise. Using
                                    our retail example, we could predict that after a period of
                                    several years, the cheap rents and land prices in the inner city
                                    (plus state grants and programmes) will attract new
                                    entrepreneurs, small businesses and service industries,
                                    resulting in urban regeneration.
Another form of
                                    time-series analysis is the use of chronologies, tracing
                                    events over time. The aim here is to compare the chronology of
                                    predicted events with what actually occurs. A theoretical
                                    proposition may predict that one set of events should be
                                    followed by another and that the reverse sequence is impossible;
                                    similarly, it may predict that one event should be followed by
                                    another after a prescribed period of time. Thus, chronologies
                                    not only allow for a description of events, but also for the
                                    analysis of causes.


Programme Logic Models
This combines both pattern matching and time-series approaches.
                                    Here, it is postulated that an initial event (independent
                                    variable) will produce an intermediate result which, in turn,
                                    will produce a final outcome (dependent variable). So, for
                                    example, improvements in health and safety procedures in a
                                    factory might, indeed, produce better safety standards and lower
                                    accident rates. The final result of this might be less
                                    disruption to production (through sickness and absence) and
                                    higher levels of worker satisfaction, both leading to higher
                                    productivity levels. Pattern matching would predict a number of
                                    dependent variables (worker satisfaction and higher
                                    productivity) as outcomes whilst the time-series approach would
                                    measure these outputs over time.




Composing Case Study Reports
We will deal with the skills in writing business research reports in
                            general in Chapter 26, but here we will focus
                            on some of the skills and issues that are specific to the case study
                            approach. Given that, as we have seen, the planning and execution of
                            case studies is one of the least systemized of all the research
                            approaches, this, in principle, leaves the case study report also less
                            precisely structured. Nevertheless, following some of the ideas below
                            will help.



Writing Case Study Reports



Know Your Audience
Typical recipients of case study reports may be business managers,
                                teachers, health professionals, government planners and policy
                                makers, community leaders and special interest groups. As with any
                                report, it is essential that you know whom you are writing for and
                                what it is that they are interested in and what they want to
                                know.
Sometimes case studies can be particularly effective when read by
                                non-specialist or non-technical readers because their descriptive
                                basis and findings can be both illuminating and memorable. For
                                example, consider the relative impact of two reports on the effect
                                of government aid programmes on developing nations. One report is
                                based on a thorough statistical analysis and plentiful quantitative
                                data presented in tabular form. The other report is a case study of
                                an African village showing both the dramatic fall in the mortality
                                rate following the installation of a clean water supply but also the
                                continuing grinding levels of under-employment and poverty.

Activity 11.6
Which of the reports just described do you think will have the
                                    greatest impact on: (a) public opinion; (b) government
                                    opinion?



Clearly, government opinion
                                is more likely to be influenced by facts, statistics and rational
                                analysis, while the public tend to favour more of the 'human
                                element' that would emerge through the case study of the
                                African village. Imagine the potential impact if the African village
                                report was taken up and illustrated through a television
                                programme.

Top Tip 11.4
One type of audience we have not mentioned so far are the readers
                                    and examiners of dissertations and theses. If you are conducting
                                    a case study as part of an academic programme then this type of
                                    audience will be interested, among other issues, in the
                                    theoretical propositions on which the study is based, and the
                                    extent to which your analysis supports claims that are
                                    consistent with the evidence. Also, ensure that you have
                                    addressed and provided details of the case study approach to
                                    research in the dissertation or thesis methodology chapter under
                                    the theme of Research Design.



You must ensure that you are actually writing for an audience and not
                                for yourself. This is a particular danger if you are conducting a
                                case study within your own particular work environment, or in a
                                situation within which you have a strong emotional connection. Take,
                                for example, someone who is researching into the promotions policy
                                of their own organization, but that this person has a long-felt
                                grievance that they themselves have been overlooked for
                                promotion.The danger is that the final report deals with a catalogue
                                of issues that have worried the employee for some time. But if the
                                report is aimed at challenging and changing the
                                organization's policy and practice it must objectively
                                address wider themes for an audience that can actually change
                                policy.


Types Of Case Study Report
Case study reports are usually written, but, in principle, they can
                                also be presented orally, or through photographs, film or other
                                digital media (see Chapter 20, Visual Methods). If
                                a case study is not subject to confidentiality, then it can also be
                                placed on the Web for wider public dissemination. Indeed, if the
                                intended audience is a public one, it would be difficult to find a
                                better delivery medium than the Web. In general, whether presented
                                as a traditional document, or via the Web, written communication is
                                likely to be the most familiar medium to both writer and reader.
                                Dooley (2002) suggests that two types of report are popular with
                                case study researchers. The first is reflective reporting
                                where the researcher uses literary devices to bring the case alive
                                for the reader. The researcher's voice is apparent. The
                                second is analytical reporting which uses a more detached
                                writing style (the researcher's voice is either silent or
                                subdued). The analytic report tends to adopt a conventional
                                structure: introduction, review of the literature, methodology,
                                results and discussion (similar to Linear-Analytic in Figure 11.7). This figure gives
                                examples of four structures that can be used for the generation of
                                written reports, broadly following typical case study design
                                formats. For the classic single case study, the report simply
                                consists of the description and analysis of the data. In the
                                multiple case study, the main body of the report could begin with
                                narrative descriptions of each of the case studies, but these can be
                                bulky and could be confined to the appendices. In this case, the
                                main body of the report would consist of the analysis and supporting
                                data of the cross-cases. A more focused approach would be to present
                                the findings in the form of a question and answer format for each of
                                the case studies. Here, the reader is then in a position to go to
                                those questions of particular interest for each of the cases. This
                                can be both efficient in terms of the reader's time and allow
                                the reader to draw comparisons across each of the studies. The
                                fourth example takes this a stage further using an integrated
                                approach that looks at each issue in turn (using each case study to
                                supply the underlying data and analysis).
Figure 11.6
                                    Four written forms of case study
Figure 11.7
                                    Alternative written report structures
Yin (2009) warns that the
                                selection of one of these approaches for the final report needs to
                                be made during the design of the case study and not as an
                                afterthought, and should be contained in the case study
                                protocol.

Top Tip 11.5
If undertaking a case study as part of an academic programme, you
                                    may need to think of also producing a report for the
                                    organization or community you have studied. This might have been
                                    negotiated as part of your entry to gain their collaboration.
                                    This would not, in all probability, be your final dissertation
                                    or thesis, which would be too long, but a short summary or Flash
                                    Report. A typical size for this would be in the region of
                                    2,000-3,000 words.



Written Report Structures
A number of alternative report structures are possible, depending on
                                the audience and what the researcher is trying to achieve (see Figure 11.7). If, for example,
                                the final case study report is being written for a largely academic
                                audience, then the linear-analytic structure would probably
                                be acceptable, since its format would be readily recognized by
                                academics. These structures could be used with any of the single or
                                multiple case studies just discussed.
The comparative structure takes the same case study and
                                repeats it two or more times, comparing and contrasting the results.
                                This could be done through beginning each time with different
                                underpinning theoretical models, allowing the case to be viewed from
                                an alternative perspective. These repetitions are typical of pattern
                                matching approaches.
The chronological structure simply takes a series of events
                                over time and sets them out in sequence. It should not be supposed,
                                however, that this approach is purely descriptive - it can
                                also be used both from explanatory and exploratory studies. For
                                example, setting out a logical sequence of events may not only
                                describe them, but provide insights into linkages and causes.
With the theory building structure the purpose is to build a
                                series of chapters or sections that develop a theoretical
                                perspective behind the case study. The theory may serve an
                                explanatory purpose, seeking connections between cause and effect,
                                or an exploratory one, suggesting new research questions and
                                propositions.
The suspense structure is probably one of the most valuable in
                                a business environment because it begins with the
                                'answer' or key findings of the case study. This is
                                what managers, planners and the sponsors of research want to know.
                                Subsequent chapters provide the background to the study and may even
                                look at alternative perspectives on the findings.
Finally, in the unsequenced structure, the actual sequence of
                                sections or chapters has no particular significance for the report.
                                Findings can be presented in any order, provided that they are
                                compatible. So, in Figure 11.7, the unsequenced
                                example illustrates a case study of a company where each section can
                                be presented independently in its own right, with no requirement for
                                sequencing the sections in a particular order.
The final case study in this chapter brings together many of the
                                principles of case study design that we have discussed. These
                                include the role of theoretical propositions, the design of clear
                                research methodologies and data gathering tools and the use of
                                multiple sources of evidence.


Case Study 11.4

Japanese Transplant Companies In The Uk
A major theoretical theme of management-worker
                                        relations in Japanese (transplant) firms based in the UK, is
                                        that of strong management control (hegemony) based upon
                                        sophisticated recruitment policies, surveillance and
                                        performance monitoring. This is facilitated by a compliant
                                        local environment with national and local state
                                        bureaucracies, development corporations and trades unions
                                        eager to offer cooperative working arrangements in exchange
                                        for inward foreign (Japanese) investment.
A case study was carried out (Elger and Smith, 1998) working
                                        on the hypotheses (based upon previous research) that:
Despite the use of 'green-field' sites
                                                and inexperienced labour, recruitment and retention
                                                of labour still poses problems for Japanese
                                                transplant companies.In response to these circumstances, management
                                                policies are not neatly pre-determined but involve
                                                debate, conflict and often piecemeal
                                                innovation.Management policies among Japanese transplants are
                                                influenced not only by local and national
                                                environments, but by patterns of ownership and
                                                company traditions.These sources of differentiation help to explain the
                                                variations in the ways in which managers respond to
                                                common problems within a shared labour market.


Key: + = practice
                                            exists; p = partial application; x = practice does not
                                            exist.
Adapted from Elger, A. and
                                            Smith, C. (1998) 'Exit, voice and
                                            "mandate": Management strategies and
                                            labour practices of Japanese firms in Britain',
                                                British Journal of Industrial Relations,
                                            36(2): 185-207. Reprinted by kind permission of
                                            John Wiley and Sons

A research methodology for the case study was established
                                        with the selection of four Japanese green-field transplant
                                        companies, all based in Telford, a 'new town'
                                        in the West Midlands of the UK. Ten per cent of managers in
                                        these companies were interviewed, plus a number of other
                                        'key informants' in the locality. Documentary
                                        evidence and observational data were gathered on both
                                        corporate policies and the local labour market. The impact
                                        of 'location' as an independent variable was
                                        controlled for by holding it constant - that is, by
                                        using a set of case study companies from the same location.
                                        So, by focusing on four companies operating in the same
                                        labour market, it became feasible to identify key features
                                        of this environment that impact on their labour relations.
                                        It also became possible to explore the impact of individual
                                        company policies and strategies on the management of labour
                                        relations.
Data on the
                                        production and personnel policies in each of the four case
                                        study workplaces were gathered using a template (see Table 11.4).
The authors acknowledge that the data need to be treated with
                                        some caution:

Of necessity, this table captures only a snapshot of what
                                            are evolving patterns of employment practices, and the
                                            uniform terminology glosses over important differences
                                            in the implementation and meaning of the various
                                            features in the different workplaces. (Elger and Smith,
                                            1998: 193)

But the evidence (from the Table and from the interviews)
                                        shows that in all four transplant companies, managers are
                                        implementing procedures for quality management. But the form
                                        taken by quality and just-in-time measures varies
                                        significantly between the factories. Thus, the case study
                                        highlights the danger of treating specific transplant
                                        workplaces as merely exemplars of generalized Japanese ways
                                        of working. There seemed to be no uniform or systematic set
                                        of personnel policies designed to shape and induct new
                                        recruits. Rather, employee policies seemed to emerge in a
                                        much more ad hoc way, in response to emerging problems and
                                        pressures, often based around the problems of recruitment
                                        and retention of young labour. The case study data reveal
                                        that transplant operations are embedded within the
                                        influences of the local as well as the national economy and
                                        are influenced by the distinctive nature of local labour
                                        markets, patterns of trades unionism and employer
                                        organization and the politics of local state and development
                                        agencies.




The case study reveals a number of typical issues in case study
                                design. The following Activity asks you to identify what they
                                are.

Activity 11.7
In Case Study 11.4, identify the following:
The theoretical underpinning of the case study.The number and type of data collection sources.Protocols used for data collection.The analytical method: pattern matching, explanation
                                            building or time-series.The extent to which the original hypotheses are
                                            supported or refuted.
Suggested answers are provided at the end of the chapter.




Summary
Case studies are used for a variety of subjects, including
                                    organizational performance, evaluating relationships between
                                    individuals, teams or departments and project
                                    implementation.Case studies are often deductive in character, beginning from a
                                    theoretical premise or stance.They should be used when there is no opportunity to control or
                                    manipulate variables, but when there is an interest in
                                    explanations and analysis of situations or events.While procedures are not as well defined as those for
                                    experimental research, case study research should involve the
                                    development of an initial hypothesis or set of questions, and
                                    the design of research tools, protocols and field
                                    procedures.Case studies can involve single or multiple units of analysis
                                    (individuals, departments, objects, systems, etc.) in
                                    combination with single or multiple case designs.In case studies, researchers should aim to collect multiple
                                    sources of evidence that should evolve into a chain of evidence,
                                    linking research questions, data, analysis and case study
                                    reports.Data for case studies are typically collected from multiple
                                    sources, including documentation, archives, interviews and
                                    direct or participant observation.Internal validity in case studies is strengthened by pattern
                                    matching, explanation building and time-series analysis.
                                    Reliability is strengthened by multiple replication of the same
                                    or similar cases.

Review Questions
Suppose you are planning to undertake a study into the
                                        strategies that small companies should adopt to achieve
                                        success. You know you are going to undertake a national
                                        survey. What arguments could you use for also including 10
                                        case studies of successful small companies?In selecting case studies, what would be the advantages in
                                        choosing cases that were divergent in terms of their
                                        features?How many case studies is enough?



Further Reading
Gomm, R., Hammersley, M. and Foster, P. (eds) (2000) Case Study
                                Method: Key Issues, Key Texts. London: Sage. Not for the novice
                            researcher, this book explores some of the complex issues associated
                            with case study research, including external validity and the generation
                            of theory.
Stake, R.E. (2005) Multiple Case Study Analysis. New York: The
                            Guilford Press. Examines single cases but then goes on to using multiple
                            cases, and the application of cross-case analysis. Three international
                            multiple case study examples are also provided.
Yin, R.K. (2009) Case Study Research: Design and Methods, 3rd edn.
                            Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage. Yin is widely recognized as one of the leading
                            authorities on case study design. There is no better starting point.
Yin, R.K. (2012) Applications of Case Study Research, 3rd edn.
                            Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage. An ideal complementary text to books on case
                            study theory in that it provides detailed examples of descriptive case
                            studies, explanatory case studies and cross-case synthesis.


Journal Resources
Lee, W., Collier, P.M. and Cullen, J. (2007) 'Reflections on the
                            use of case studies in the accounting, management and organizational
                            disciplines', Qualitative Research in Organizations and
                                Management: An International Journal, 2(3): 169-178.
                            Discusses the merits of unique cases and singular forms of evidence
                            within a single case; the comparability of case studies with tools in
                            other areas; and methods of theorizing from case studies.
Patton, E. and Appelbaum, S.H.
                            (2003) 'The case for case studies in management research',
                                Management Research News, 26(5): 60-71. Suggests that
                            case studies are an important approach in organizational research both
                            for generating hypotheses for quantitative studies, and for generating
                            and testing theory.
Rowley, J. (2002) 'Using case studies in research',
                                Management Research News, 25(1): 16-27. Explains when
                            case studies are the ideal method, how to design case studies and issues
                            around validity and reliability.


Suggested Answers For Activity 11.2
The implicit research questions include:
What kind of human resources functions are developed in small,
                                    for-profit Indian hospitals?What relationships are there between the scale and formality of
                                    these HR functions and the size and longevity of the
                                    hospital?
The unit of analysis is each individual hospital.The multiple sources of evidence comprise interviews but also an
                                    element of observation (although this is implicit rather than
                                    explicit in the study).


Suggested Answers For Activity 11.3
Research questions might include: (a) What is the attitude of
                                    customers towards the new system? (b) What is the attitude of
                                    staff to the system? Does the system work - are customers
                                    able to understand and use it?Data collection methods could include covert observation of the
                                    customers as they arrive to see how easily they manage to use
                                    the new system. Later, a selected sample of customers could be
                                    interviewed as they left the building to ascertain their views
                                    on the system. The views of staff could be tapped through a
                                    small-scale survey using a structured questionnaire (perhaps
                                    distributed in the next issue of the company newsletter).


Suggested Answers For Activity 11.4
The source of measurement would include the number of orders
                                    filled to specific timescales, levels of customer satisfaction,
                                    the scale of print runs and the levels of employee
                                    satisfaction.Independent variables include the new team structures, but you
                                    would need to look out for other extraneous variables that might
                                    confound the results (for example, do some teams contain more
                                    experienced workers?). Since the project is looking at the
                                    impact of different combinations of workers (compared to the old
                                    one) then sub-cases would be used, comprising each of the new
                                    team structures. One sub-group could comprise the old structure
                                    which could then act as a control to see if the more
                                    collaborative team approach was, indeed, more effective.


Suggested Answers For Activity 11.5
The new retail park is acting as an independent variable on its
                            environment, within which dependent variables include urban
                            degeneration, traffic congestion and crime. One of the challenges here
                            is to measure the impact of the retail park itself, since there are
                            likely to be many other independent variables at work. Taking just
                            traffic as an example, car ownership tends to rise over time, so will
                            add to traffic congestion.



Suggested Answers For Activity 11.7
The theoretical underpinning of the study revolves around the
                                    literature on management-worker relationships in Japanese
                                    transplant companies.Data collection sources include secondary sources (previous
                                    studies), interviews with 10 per cent of company managers, some
                                    key informants in the locality, documentary evidence on company
                                    policies, plus observational data.The protocols used for data collection are illustrated in the
                                    template in Table 11.4.The analytical method comprises a form of explanation
                                    building.The original hypothesis could be accepted on the basis of the
                                    results.

Don't forget to visit the companion website at https://study.sagepub.com/grayresearchbusiness for the
                                following resources which support this chapter:

















12 Designing Evaluations In
                        Business

Chapter Introduction

Chapter Outline
The focus of evaluationSchools of evaluationData collection sourcesData collection toolsQuality issues in evaluationPlanning the evaluation reportEnhancing the impact of evaluationThe ethics of evaluation


Keywords
KirkpatrickImpact analysisForce-field analysisTQMFormative evaluationSummative evaluationRepertory gridCritical incidents



Icon Key







Author Video







Chapter Objectives
After reading this chapter you will be able to:
Describe the purposes of evaluations.Distinguish between the different schools of
                                        evaluation.Identify suitable data collection sources.Design valid and reliable evaluation tools.Produce readable and informative evaluation reports.Adhere to ethical principles in conducting evaluations.



Often surveys (Chapter 10) can be used to evaluate
                            public perceptions of a product or service. Equally, a case study
                            approach (Chapter 11) can be adopted, which
                            consists of the evaluation of, say, a new factory system or process.
                            Evaluation involves the systematic collection of data about the
                            characteristics of a programme, product, policy or service. As part of
                            this process, evaluation will often explore what needs to be changed,
                            the procedures that are most likely to bring about this change, and
                            whether there is evidence that change has occurred (Warr et al., 1970).
                            Indeed, as Clarke (1999) points out, while the purpose of basic research
                            is to discover new knowledge, evaluation research studies show how
                            existing knowledge is used to inform and guide practical action. A
                            significant amount of evaluation research revolves around training or
                            professional development programmes, and some of the chapter will focus
                            on this area. However, as Kaufman and Keller (1994) make clear,
                            evaluation has tended to focus too much on the effects of training and
                            not enough on other performance improvement interventions such as
                            strategic planning, organizational development, diversity, team working
                            and mentoring.



Evaluation


Interest in the process of evaluation can be traced back to the 1970s and
                            was strongly influenced by the work of Donald Kirkpatrick, who focused
                            on the evaluation of programmes. The emphasis was often on the accuracy,
                            or otherwise, of evaluation measuring techniques, and was strongly
                            positivist in orientation (Lincoln, 1985). In recent years, with the
                            expansion of action learning, work-related learning and self-development
                            programmes, learning is now seen as arising within and
                                through the work situation rather than just through formal
                            programmes. Hence, for evaluation, the focus has shifted to a certain
                            extent away from measurement and towards issues of what is
                            evaluated, why and for whom. This includes issues around
                            subjectivity and the ethics of evaluation.
It has been suggested by Campbell (1997) that the process of evaluation
                            suffers from a lack of accurate and complete information, bad
                            information or untimely information, that is, a lack of information when
                            it is really needed. In this chapter, then, we will look at different
                            sources for collecting data for evaluation, and the design of valid and
                            reliable tools for use in the field. We will also look at ways of
                            enhancing the quality and accuracy of evaluation studies and therefore
                            the chances of them being accepted by their sponsors - so that
                            the effort of planning and implementing an evaluation study produces
                            positive outcomes.



The Focus Of Evaluation
In his original, seminal work, Kirkpatrick (1959) made recommendations
                            for evaluation that have laid the basis for thinking about the subject
                            ever since. He argues that, in essence, the evaluation of training
                            programmes should concentrate on four levels:
Level 1, Reaction: evaluating the reactions of trainees
                                    to the programme (usually by the use of a questionnaire). This
                                    determines their level of satisfaction with the programme.Level 2, Learning: measuring the knowledge, skills and
                                    attitudes that result from the programme and which were
                                    specified as training objectives. The extent of learning can be
                                    tested through assessment.Level 3, Behaviour: measuring aspects of improved job
                                    performance that are related to the training objectives.Level 4, Results: relating the results of the training to
                                    organizational objectives and other criteria of effectiveness
                                    such as better quality, productivity, safety or profits.
According to Kirkpatrick (2005), the evaluation of training programmes is
                            important for a number of reasons: (a) to justify the existence and
                            budget of the training department by showing how it contributes to the
                            organization's objectives and goals; (b) to decide whether or not
                            a programme should be continued; (c) to gain information on how to
                            improve programmes in the future. Unfortunately, as Bramley and Kitson
                            (1994) suggest, in the UK and USA over 80 per cent of training is only
                            evaluated at Level 1, with participants commenting on how much they
                            enjoyed or thought they benefited from the programme. This information
                            is gathered through the issue of evaluation forms or, in modern jargon,
                            'happiness sheets'. However, even if evaluation is at this
                            level, negative responses might prompt training designers to improve a
                            programme (Pershing and Pershing, 2001).



Evaluation of Training Programmes


Yet it is probably Level 3 that is most important. At Level 1
                            participants can enjoy a programme but their performance may remain the
                            same. At Level 2 they may be able to show an increase in knowledge but
                            maintain the same behaviours. Rowe (1995) distinguishes between three
                            levels of work-related outputs at Level 2:
Knowledge (understanding of a subject or skill).Skill (the practice of the skill itself).Competence (showing one's ability in applying a
                                    skill).
As Rowe points out, competence often means 'the minimal standard
                            required', whereas in many work situations what is needed is
                            excellence in performance. Also, many highly competent teams will
                            include incompetent individuals. Perhaps, then, it is the competence of
                            teams that we should be evaluating.
It is at Level 3 that improved job performance and behaviour can be
                            measured. Kirkpatrick (2005) suggests that to do this, if possible, a
                            control group should be used against which the performance of the
                            trained group can be compared. There should be a time gap before
                            measuring post-course performance to give time for behaviours to change.
                            Evaluation should be both before and after the programme and as many
                            stakeholders as possible should be contacted: course participants, their
                            line managers, their subordinates and other relevant parties. Costs as
                            well as benefits should also be considered.


Top Tip 12.1
Before the training intervention, discuss with participants or
                                programme sponsors what the intended success factors of the training
                                intervention will be. For example, if success is seen as
                                'improved performance', what, precisely, must be
                                improved and to what level? How will performance be measured both
                                before the training intervention and afterwards? How will external
                                factors such as changing market conditions be taken into
                                account?



At Level 4, evaluating results presents a challenge, particularly if a
                            control group is not used. However, even with a control group, as we saw
                            in Chapter 6, it is possible to use
                            faulty designs such as the use of non-equivalent control groups. Sound
                            designs include the use of a group that receives the training with a
                            control group, with both groups taking both a pre-test and a post-test.
                            Yet, the question of what is to be tested has to be decided.
                            Furthermore, the use of a control group that is pre-tested and
                            post-tested but receives none of the benefits of training raises ethical
                            questions. One solution would be to conduct the pre- and post-tests, but
                            for the control group to then get the benefit of the training
                            programme.



Example - Programme Evaluation


Figure 12.1
                                Cost-benefit analysis of a proposed training eventSource: Adapted from Bramley and
                                Kitson, 1994
Bramley and Kitson (1994) caution that the problems of evaluating at
                            Levels 3 and 4 are not well understood. Measuring changes in job
                            performance, for example, is problematic, partly because of the amount of work involved in
                            designing measurement criteria. They proceed, however, to offer some
                            solutions. As Figure 12.1 shows,
                            cost-benefit analysis is one way of measuring the benefits
                            emerging from a programme, described as a list of performance
                            indicators.

Activity 12.1
Taking Figure 12.1, think of ways of
                                measuring some of the performance indicators listed. What sort of
                                data should be collected? Are some indicators easier to measure than
                                others?
Suggested answers are provided at the end of the chapter.



Kaufman and Keller (1994) also offer some further developments to the
                            Kirkpatrick model, arguing that the original four-level model fails to
                            take into account the broader impact of interventions on society. Hence,
                            they add a Level 5 which requires organizations to measure this. They
                            also modify some of the other Kirkpatrick levels. So, at Level 1,
                            instead of just participant reaction to an intervention, they include an
                            evaluation of the value and worth of the resources put into the
                            programme, and the efficiency of the methods and tools used. Level 3
                            becomes application instead of behaviour, that is, whether participants
                            are able to apply what they have learned on the job. Hence, an
                            organization that introduces a new programme aimed at increasing
                            diversity awareness, would evaluate the training programme in terms of
                            whether people considered it used an appropriate amount of resources
                            (Level 1), whether it was being implemented according to its design and
                            objectives (Level 2), whether it succeeds in reducing or eliminating
                            sexist or racist behaviour (Level 3) and what payoffs this achieves for
                            the organization (Level 4) and society (Level 5).
An alternative approach to the evaluation of training and development
                            programmes is offered by Brinkerhoff (2006), who suggests two basic
                            steps: a) identify the few trainees who have been the most successful
                            following the training; b) interview both the successful and least
                            successful trainees to try to understand and analyse their stories.
                            While Kirkpatrick's approach typically comes after the training
                            intervention, for Brinkerhoff (2006) the first stage is to plan the
                            evaluation which can comprise either a formative, summative evaluation
                            or both. Step 2 involves identifying the critical success factors that
                            the programme is meant to achieve. So, for example, how will the
                            training intervention change the performance of the employee? How will
                            it affect the goals of the organization? At Step 3, a survey is
                            administered to identify those employees who have achieved the greatest
                            success and those who have achieved least. This involves implementing a
                            scoring system to identify these two groups. Step 4 involves
                            interviewing successful and least successful employees by asking some
                            simple, basic questions such as:
What, if anything, has changed as a result of the training
                                    intervention?How has the intervention changed your job-specific
                                    behaviour?Did the intervention result in any worthwhile outcomes?
The results from this stage allow for Step 5 at which conclusions are
                            reached as to the impact of the programme in terms of its overall
                            achievements, whether some elements of the programme were more
                            successful than others, and the value of outcomes generated. It also
                            allows for answers to the fundamental question: did the benefits
                            outweigh the costs?




Another way of evaluating the effectiveness of a programme is through
                            impact analysis. Here, all stakeholders get together before the start of
                            the programme and discuss its objectives and the behaviours that are
                            likely to change as a result. Through a snowballing process, each
                            participant is asked to write down the three results they see as most
                            important. These are pinned to a noticeboard, then reorganized into
                            clusters or themes. Each cluster is then given a title, and stakeholders
                            asked to award 10 points across the clusters so that a ranking of
                            clusters is achieved. Having done this, enabling and inhibiting factors
                            are discussed to create a force-field analysis. Finally, stakeholders
                            discuss how the purposes of the programme can be evaluated. The
                            following case study provides yet another approach to programme
                            evaluation, and one that is widely used in business and organizational
                            contexts.

Case Study 12.1

Programme Evaluation Through Force-Field
                                    Analysis
A senior management team has planned a programme of workshops
                                    spread over 12 months, the purpose of which will be to instigate
                                    major organizational change. Before this can happen, the
                                    programme itself must be evaluated. If this proves successful,
                                    then the change programme will be cascaded down through the
                                    entire organization.



Force Field Analysis


To prepare for the evaluation, the participants carry out a
                                    snowballing process which crystallizes sets of enabling and
                                    inhibiting factors that may influence the programme's
                                    likely impact on the rest of the organization. The participant
                                    evaluators (and programme planners) convene an impact
                                        workshop during which they come up with four factors
                                    that are likely to restrain the spread and success of the
                                    programme and four factors that are driving for its full
                                    implementation. As Figure 12.2 shows,
                                    leadership is seen as both a restraining and a driving
                                    force, that is, there are groups of managers in favour of change
                                    and those who oppose it.
Use of the force-field analysis process and diagram allows the
                                    participants to debate and analyse the various strengths of the
                                    restraining and driving forces. As a result, the budget for the
                                    change management programme is re-examined (evaluated) to see if
                                    it is sufficiently large. The impact workshop is reconvened
                                    after three months and the on-going programme evaluated against
                                    the driving and restraining forces that have been anticipated to
                                    see what remedial action needs taking.




Figure 12.2
                                Force-field analysis of organizational change programme

Activity 12.2
Take a programme or change process with which you are familiar and
                                conduct a force-field analysis on it. This works better if you are
                                able to conduct the evaluation with colleagues who are also familiar
                                with the programme/process. How useful is force-field analysis as an
                                evaluation method?



An increasingly popular focus of evaluation is through the Total Quality
                            Management (TQM) process, the European model of which is set out in Figure 12.3. As Bramley and Kitson
                            explain, each of these nine elements can be analysed in terms of an
                            organization's progress towards TQM. Hence, leadership is defined
                            as 'How the executive team and all other managers inspire and
                            drive total quality as the organization's fundamental process for
                            continuous improvement' (Bramley and Kitson, 1994: 14). Since the
                            focus of evaluation is results, this is at Level 4 of
                            Kirkpatrick's (1959) model.



Total Quality Management


Focusing on outputs, however, may cause us to miss other important
                            features that deserve evaluation. Easterby-Smith (1994), for example,
                            argues that it is virtually impossible to understand a programme without
                            evaluating the context in which it takes place. This might
                            include why the programme was sponsored or devised in the first place
                            (and any differences between overt and hidden agendas), and the
                            different aims and objectives of the various stakeholders. Another focus
                            of evaluation could include administration. This includes the
                            processes that occur before the training (for example, nomination for
                            the training, selection of participants) and what happens once the
                            training is complete (such as follow-up activities). The selection of
                            candidates is often an illuminating place to start. They may find
                            themselves on a programme because they have been identified as a
                            'high flier', but alternatively it may be because they
                            have been underperforming on the job, and need help.
Figure 12.3 The
                                European TQM modelSource: Bramley and Kitson, 1994
Evaluation schemes that concentrate narrowly on inputs and outputs of
                            programmes are in danger of missing vital, often illuminating
                            information on processes. Process evaluation may involve merely
                            observing what is occurring and keeping a narrative record of events.
                            But it may go further than this, trying to understand the programme or
                            event from the perspective of participants. Another element of process
                            evaluation might be to focus on interactions between facilitators and
                            participants or between participants themselves. Process evaluation may
                            not only describe events, but seek to interpret what is
                            happening. Table 12.2 provides an overview of
                            all the many different types of evaluation, some of which we have
                            mentioned above.
Two of the evaluation types in Table
                                12.2, formative and summative, have a long pedigree. Scriven
                            (1967) uses these terms to describe educational curricula, and the terms
                            have been widely used in an educational context ever since. Formative
                            evaluation is undertaken to provide feedback to people who are trying to
                            improve something. It is often relatively informal, with the evaluator
                            working alongside practitioners to identify the strengths and weaknesses
                            of a programme or intervention. In contrast, summative evaluation aims
                            to determine the overall effectiveness of a programme or project, and to
                            provide a judgement on whether it should continue to run. Summative
                            evaluation is usually more formal in character, with the evaluator
                            operating in a more independent role. In formative evaluation, feedback
                            to practitioners may be written or provided through discussions, but in
                            summative evaluation feedback is usually in the form of a formal,
                            written report to the commissioning body.

Top Tip 12.2
In planning the evaluation of a programme or teaching/training
                                intervention, consider using not only summative but also formative
                                evaluation. This allows you to explore how the programme evolves
                                over time, generating a dynamic and richer picture of change.



Top Tip: Evaluation Planning








Source: Adapted from Patton,
                                1982



Activity 12.3
Take a look at the various types of evaluation in Table 12.2. Which of these
                                would you consider selecting for your own evaluation projects? Can
                                several approaches be combined at the same time?



Clearly, these different approaches to evaluation stem from differences
                            of opinion as to what evaluation is for. Such differences can be
                            classified into schools of evaluation, to which we now turn.


Schools Of Evaluation
Easterby-Smith (1994) categorizes the various approaches to evaluation
                            into four schools of thought: experimental, systems, illuminative and
                            goal-free. To these we can add: decision making, goal-based,
                            professional review and interventionist (see Figure
                                12.4). It is worth noting the views of Ballantine et al. (2000)
                            that the philosophy underlying an evaluation has a great influence on
                            how it is conducted, the tools used and also its goals. So, evaluations
                            that focus on technical issues (such as computer information systems)
                            are likely to be summative and formal in approach, regarding people as
                            automata, or mere cogs in a process (see experimental and systems
                            evaluation). In contrast, the more moral approach to evaluation is
                            likely to be more formative and human-centred (see illuminative and
                            goal-free evaluation). Clearly, implicit in some of these approaches are
                            some of the ontological and epistemological assumptions discussed in Chapter 2.
The role of the evaluator is likely to be quite different according to
                            which type of evaluation process is being followed. For example, in more
                            formal, 'scientific' approaches, the evaluator may often
                            be an independent and detached 'outsider' providing
                            feedback to a commissioning body. In constructivist or more naturalistic
                            approaches, the evaluator may work quite closely with practitioners in a
                            more collaborative, participatory style, acting not only as an evaluator
                            but as a facilitator of change. The evaluator is expected to enter the
                            evaluation setting free of pre-determined views, and hence is unlikely
                            to start with a particular research design or set of research questions.
                            These emerge as part of the process of inquiry. Evaluators approach the
                            research context with an open mind.
Figure 12.4 Model
                                of schools of thought in evaluationSource: Adapted from Easterby-Smith,
                                1994. Reprinted by kind permission of the author


Experimental Evaluation
Experimental evaluation seeks to demonstrate that any observed
                                change in behaviour or outcomes can be attributed to the
                                intervention (for example, the training or development provided).
                                There is an emphasis on research design and quantitative
                                measurement, and sometimes the use of control groups and treatment
                                groups - just as we would expect to see in any, typical,
                                experimental approach. Clarke (1999) posits the example of a
                                training programme for the unemployed. An evaluator may attempt to
                                measure the causal effect of the programme by comparing the future
                                employment records of those who participated in the programme with
                                unemployed adults living either in the area where no training is
                                provided, or residing in the same area but receiving no
                                training.



Experimental Design


Easterby-Smith (1994), however, cautions that there are a number of
                                reasons why experimental evaluation may have limited applications.
                                For example, if statistical techniques are going to be applied,
                                sample sizes must be sufficiently large (see Chapter
                                    9). If control groups are used, they must be properly
                                matched to the experimental group; even when associations between
                                variables can be identified, there is still the problem of showing
                                causality, that is, that changes in one variable led to changes in
                                the other. Clarke (1999) also argues that experimental evaluation
                                faces all the kinds of problems that typify experimental research in
                                general. For example, there may be differential attrition rates
                                between the experimental and control groups, meaning that the two
                                groups are no longer equivalent. Furthermore, the research may
                                actually serve to create inequalities between the two groups, since
                                one group receives the treatment and the other does not. This can
                                work in unexpected ways. For example, if the control group learns
                                that it is a control, members may be tempted to perform
                                better than the experimental group; conversely, they may feel
                                deprived and resentful and their performance may deteriorate.


Systems Evaluation
In the systems approach, there is emphasis on specifying the
                                objectives of the evaluation, with identifying outcomes, and on
                                providing feedback on these outcomes to those providing the
                                training. An example of the systems approach process is provided by
                                Campbell (1997), who describes a schema for conducting an evaluation
                                (see Table 12.3).
A typical example of systems evaluation would be where evaluators are
                                brought in to investigate the effectiveness of a new financial
                                accounting system. Objectives might be discussed with stakeholders
                                and defined as:
How robust is the system - does it
                                        'crash'?Does its functionality match the original
                                        specifications?How 'user-friendly' is the system, and what
                                        are its implications for staff development and
                                        training?



Source: Campbell, 1997, adapted
                                    from L'Angelle, 1996

A structured evaluation schedule is then drawn up containing
                                questions matched against design specifications. An interview
                                schedule is also designed so that issues can be explored with those
                                who work on the system. Once the data have been collected, they are
                                analysed and a formal report prepared containing recommendations for
                                change.
One of the criticisms of the systems approach is that it represents
                                rather a mechanistic view of the world that fails to recognize that
                                objectives, for example, can never be neutral. Critics of the
                                approach would point out that objectives tend to be selected by one
                                particular social group (for example, often senior managers) and
                                reflect the vested interests of such groups. A systems approach to
                                evaluation may also fail to pick up the subtleties and complexities
                                of both the products and processes of training or systems because it
                                does not recognize that such complexities exist.


Goal-Based Evaluation
Like systems evaluation, goal-based evaluation is focused on the
                                achievement of pragmatic outcomes. Here, however, the emphasis is
                                not so much on designing systems to measure outcomes, but on
                                identifying any discrepancies between planned and actual goals. This
                                evaluation approach has been extensively used by educationalists
                                from the behavioural school, who believe that the outcomes of
                                programmes should be expressed in behavioural terms (for example,
                                'the manager should be able to demonstrate the ability
                                to plan a project'). This does, however, raise questions
                                about the extent to which what people are actually thinking can be
                                inferred from what is observed in terms of human behaviours. It also
                                assumes that the stated goals of a programme against which outcomes
                                are to be evaluated can be accepted at face value. Yet people may
                                hold tacit goals that they choose not to articulate or are not
                                consciously aware of. Furthermore, there are issues of democracy and
                                power relationships: who selects the goals that are to be evaluated?
                                Whose interests do they represent?


Decision Making Evaluation
The decision making approach suggests that evaluation should be
                                structured by the decisions that need to be made - often by
                                top decision makers or managers. This resolves one of the evaluator's dilemmas
                                of not always knowing at whom the evaluation should be directed
                                (House, 1980). A drawback is that it can often ignore other
                                potentially interested parties and stakeholders, although this can
                                be overcome to some extent by gathering evaluative data from groups
                                outside the original sponsors of the evaluation. As an evaluation
                                approach it makes extensive use of survey methodology, often using
                                tools such as questionnaires and interviews.


Professional Review: Validation And Accreditation
Many professional associations for people such as lawyers,
                                accountants, doctors, social workers, consultants and human resource
                                managers set professional standards and then assess and accredit
                                individual members of the profession against these standards.
                                Indeed, possession of the prerequisite accreditation is often the
                                passport required for entry into the profession. If professional
                                training and assessment are delivered by organizations (such as
                                institutions of higher education) external to the professional
                                association itself, then the association is likely to set in motion
                                evaluation (validation) processes to assure the quality of the
                                training and professional development programmes.
In many countries, validation is seen as an essential quality
                                assurance process to ensure appropriate standards for courses
                                delivered by colleges and universities. In the UK, for example, the
                                Quality Assurance Agency for Higher Education sets out a code of
                                practice for the approval, monitoring and review of programmes (QAA,
                                2000). Hence, higher education institutions are charged with the
                                task of ensuring that programmes are compatible with the goals and
                                mission of the institution and with its academic planning and
                                resources. In the course of the approval (validation) process,
                                institutions are asked to give consideration to:
The design principles underpinning the programme.The definition and appropriateness of standards in
                                        accordance with the level and title of the award.The resources needed and available to support the
                                        programme.Anticipated demand for the programme.Monitoring and review arrangements.The length of time for which approval is granted (which will
                                        normally be between one and five years).The contents of the programme specifications.
Ongoing monitoring will normally be undertaken by the department
                                delivering the programme and will include the use of student
                                feedback (often through evaluation forms), student progress
                                information, reports from accrediting or other external bodies and
                                examiners' reports (an important form of external evaluation
                                of assessment standards).


Illuminative Evaluation
Illuminative evaluation takes a much more flexible and open-ended
                                approach. Rather than focus on measurement, it seeks the views of
                                participants, recognizing that there are 'multiple
                                perspectives' on any matter under scrutiny. So, in evaluating
                                the success of a city's integrated transport scheme, the
                                process might elicit the views of the transport authority that
                                launched the scheme, transport workers, and commuters as to its
                                effectiveness. Illuminative evaluation will seek to promote communal
                                awareness about a programme, rather than aiming to achieve
                                pre-specified outcomes, results and recommendations. In terms of methodology, it
                                is often associated with the case study approach we discussed in Chapter 11 and will tend to use
                                qualitative methods such as in-depth interviews and direct
                                observations of programme activities.
A danger of using illuminative evaluation, apart from the time and
                                costs involved, is that clients and sponsors may want more than just
                                'illumination', but rather results that can lead to
                                action. These do not always emerge from approaches of this kind.
                                Furthermore, as with the case study approach in general, the results
                                may be heavily influenced by the subjective views of the evaluator.
                                As House (1980) warns, illuminative evaluation faces the difficulty
                                of proving its authenticity and confidence in its outcomes.


Goal-Free Evaluation
Goal-free evaluation suggests that evaluations should totally ignore
                                the formal objectives of a programme, since these may fail to
                                reflect what is actually happening. Indeed, according to Scriven
                                (1973), knowing the goals of a programme will bias the evaluator.
                                The evaluation, then, should aim to look for unanticipated outcomes
                                and, above all, processes. So this may mean observing pre-course
                                planning meetings, mixing with participants socially and discussing
                                the training event with them afterwards. In terms of research
                                paradigms, goal-free evaluation may typify a constructivist
                                approach, exploring how participants make sense of their
                                experiences. Ballantine et al. (2000) support this approach, arguing
                                that evaluation should look less at financial measures, and more at
                                subjective views where personal judgements are made explicit. The
                                results of this approach to evaluation may reveal illuminating
                                insights but may not always produce results that can easily be
                                implemented. There are also the dangers of the objectivity of
                                evaluations being compromised by evaluators becoming too involved in
                                events.


Interventionist Evaluation And Action Research
This encompasses a number of different approaches, but here we will
                                focus on two of the most widely used. In contrast to experimental
                                evaluation that uses predefined objectives and measuring
                                instruments, responsive evaluation concentrates on a
                                programme's activities rather than its planned intentions,
                                and explores the different stakeholder perspectives involved.
                                Responsive evaluation, as the name implies, is more likely to be
                                adaptive as the needs and circumstances around a programme change.
                                Rather than act in a detached capacity, responsive evaluation
                                favours the evaluator in a more involved, interventionist mode,
                                often working in close collaboration with programme staff and
                                participants.
Another approach to interventionist evaluation is utilization
                                    focused evaluation. Here, the stress is on the importance of
                                identifying the motives of key decision makers before deciding on
                                what types of information need to be collected. So evaluators must
                                discuss with stakeholders both before, during and after the
                                programme what it is that they need to know and the ends to which
                                the emerging data may be put. This has much in common with action
                                research (see Chapter 13), in which
                                practitioners set out to solve problems through planning,
                                implementing and evaluating change processes and strategies.
Both approaches have in common a commitment to achieve a direct
                                impact on a programme and those involved in it. One problem with
                                interventionist evaluation is that it might become too adaptive to
                                changing situations, with evaluators becoming too involved with
                                clients to maintain detachment and objectivity.


Top Tip 12.3
In selecting which of the above evaluation approaches to adopt,
                                    reflect first of all on your research philosophy. In terms of
                                    epistemology, do you believe that there is an objective
                                    'truth' that can be measured? In which case, you
                                    could consider using experimental evaluation. On the other hand,
                                    if you adopt a more interpretivist paradigm, then illuminative
                                    evaluation might be more appropriate.




Data Collection Sources
There are many channels available for collecting data, and the type of
                            medium used will often depend on the objectives of the evaluation.
                            Easterby-Smith (1994) suggests that there are three kinds of medium
                            available, all of which are discussed in detail in other parts of this
                            book. The media comprise: the use of informants, where data are
                            collected through, for example, questionnaires (Chapter
                                14); direct observations by the evaluator of what is
                            taking place (Chapters 16 and 17); and
                            accumulated records of what has taken place in the past (Chapter 19). In this section, then,
                            we will only look at some ideas that are specific to the evaluation
                            process.

Informants
Easterby-Smith (1994) classifies informants into four categories:
                                direct participants, observers, controls and stakeholders.
Direct participants are the programme delegates and
                                        the tutors or facilitators. Depending on the extent of their
                                        involvement, it might also include programme sponsors or the
                                        colleagues of programme participants.Observers may include course participants, if they
                                        are able to become sufficiently emotionally detached to be
                                        able to comment on the outcomes and processes objectively.
                                        The views of managers and sponsors can be useful in
                                        commenting on the effectiveness of a programme in terms of
                                        its impact on the subsequent work performance of
                                        learners.Controls are identical to the people in the
                                        experimental group, except that they do not receive the
                                        intervention. Using this approach, it is possible, in
                                        principle, to measure the effectiveness of a training or
                                        development programme. As we saw in Chapter 6, however, it is often difficult to find
                                        two groups that can be matched in this way and also
                                        difficult to control for the effects of extraneous
                                        variables.Stakeholders are those who do not have direct contact
                                        with a programme but have a legitimate interest in it none
                                        the less. Top managers, for example, may be very interested
                                        in the success of a sponsored MBA programme because it is
                                        hoped that some 'high fliers' will emerge that
                                        are vital for medium-term succession-planning at executive
                                        level.



Informant-based Research




Observations
Evaluating a training session or project by observing it may appear
                                not only a perfectly sensible but also a fairly unproblematic
                                approach. As we will see in Chapters
                                    16 and 17, however, there are
                                different ways of observing, including overt and covert observation
                                and evaluating a programme or project by joining it as a participant
                                or from the outside as a non-participant. Covert observation whether as a
                                participant or looking in from the outside may reveal information
                                that would not emerge if participants knew they were under scrutiny.
                                Of course, the fact that they are being observed secretly raises
                                ethical issues that require addressing.
Whichever approach is adopted, it is simply not possible to observe
                                everything that occurs. Those that advocate using a digital recorder
                                to solve this problem forget that even this medium is selective in
                                what it can 'see'. Of course, observing, taking notes
                                and using digital media all help to build data sets that can provide
                                a more comprehensive (reliable) picture for subsequent analysis. For
                                practical purposes, it may be necessary to be selective in
                                collecting data, which may involve a number of approaches
                                including:
Time sampling involves making
                                        'snapshot' observations over a period of time.
                                        For example, as part of a job evaluation study a shopfloor
                                        packer could be observed every 20 minutes against the
                                        categories: walking, packing, discussing, requesting, taking
                                        instructions, absent.Incident sampling involves looking for critical
                                        incidents that might have an important impact on what is
                                        being evaluated. For example, a training programme may
                                        involve arguments and hostility between participants that
                                        could be documented.People sampling involves observing a sample of people
                                        in the belief that the sample selected is representative of
                                        the population from which it is drawn. So, in evaluating the
                                        impact of a new bonus scheme, a number of people who had
                                        recently received bonuses would be observed to evaluate
                                        whether this had had any impact on their behaviour or
                                        performance.Analytical categories sampling involves looking for,
                                        and recording, instances of specific behaviours or verbal
                                        interchanges. A classic example of this is the work of Bales
                                        (1950), who observed interactions among groups to determine
                                        broad categories of group behaviour comprising asking
                                        questions, attempted answers to these questions, followed by
                                        either positive or negative reactions.
Methods of recording the data collected using these techniques are
                                examined in detail in Chapters 16 and 17.


Accumulated Records
While the use of informants and observations requires the collection
                                of data in the field, it is possible to evaluate programmes on the
                                basis of data that were collected in the past. Examples of typical
                                sources include:
Programme or project plans and specifications.Communications between those responsible for the
                                        commissioning, planning or delivery processes.Comments written on flipcharts.Emails between participants.
Records, for example, might also show that it is taking participants
                                longer than in the past to achieve a particular programme objective
                                - based on this fact, personnel records might be checked to
                                see if recruitment standards were being observed (Campbell, 1997).
                                Sometimes, it is the lack of recorded information that might be
                                significant - for example, the fact that few participants
                                completed the pre-course activities that were vital to the
                                programme's success. Accumulated records are an example of
                                unobtrusive measures that are discussed in more detail in Chapter 19. Having identified
                                appropriate sources, the next step is actually to collect the
                                data.




Data Collection Tools
There are a wide variety of tools available for collecting evaluation
                            data, some of the commonest techniques including questionnaires and
                            interview schedules. Since these are discussed in considerable depth in
                                Chapters 14 and 15
                            respectively, they will be discussed only briefly here. As in any type
                            of questionnaire, the content must be designed to be both valid and
                            reliable. In Figure 12.5, for example, 18
                            questions are asked about a training programme - probably a
                            sufficient number to produce a reliable estimate of people's
                            opinions. Note that Campbell (1997) calls this not a questionnaire but
                            an opinionnaire, since it is eliciting participants' opinions
                            about a training programme.
Figure 12.5 Sample
                                opinionnaireSource: Adapted from Campbell,
                                1997
It is worth noting, however, the concern of Campbell (1997), who warns
                            against too much reliance being placed on the use of numerical ratings
                            and statistical calculations in evaluation questionnaires. He cautions
                            that the data on the feelings and opinions collected remain
                            subjective.


Employability Skill 12. 1

Designing Opinion Surveys For The Workplace
Figure 12.5 provides a
                                    simple, but typical, example of an essential workplace skill
                                    - measuring employee views and opinions. Managers, for
                                    example, might want to evaluate the effectiveness of a training
                                    or other staff learning initiative; or they might want to
                                    measure staff morale or intention to leave. Whatever the focus,
                                    opinion surveys will, typically, contain some of the features in
                                        Figure 12.5 including
                                    directions for completing the survey, a list of statements and a
                                    four- or five-point measurement scale with descriptions (e.g.,
                                    strongly agree/agree, etc.)



Workplace Satisfaction Survey
                                            Benefits







Assessment Tests
It is important to differentiate between assessment and evaluation.
                                Put simply, we evaluate products, policies, programmes, etc., but we
                                assess people. So what is the connection between evaluation and
                                assessment? The answer is that we can evaluate the success of a
                                programme by assessing what people have learned from it in terms of
                                knowledge, skills or comprehension - and above all,
                                performance. Hence, controlling for other variables, if post-course
                                assessments reveal that new skills and knowledge have been acquired,
                                we can attribute this (through evaluation) to the training programme
                                itself. Thus, the outcomes of assessment can comprise an important
                                element of the evaluation process.


Repertory Grid
The repertory grid technique is based upon the original work of Kelly
                                (1955), who argued that people's behaviour is influenced by
                                the way in which they classify what is going on around them. People
                                construe and interpret events, noting features of a series of events
                                that characterize some and are particularly uncharacteristic of
                                others. In doing this, they erect constructs involving similarity
                                and contrast. So, if someone is construed as having leadership
                                qualities, this would imply they shared similar characteristics to
                                other people seen to have this quality and contrast with
                                characteristics shown by people with no leadership ability. But this
                                does not imply that the person identified as a leader would be seen
                                in this light by everyone. Constructs are personal, with different
                                individuals giving different interpretations of events or
                                characteristics. They are also hierarchical, with some constructs
                                seen as more important than others. In particular, core
                                constructs allow an individual to maintain their sense of identity
                                and continuing existence, while peripheral constructs can be
                                altered without any change in core structures. Some (permeable)
                                constructs may change on the basis of new evidence, but other
                                constructs (impermeable) prove more resistant to change. Hence, a
                                technique is used, the repertory grid, to elicit these constructs
                                for analysis and interpretation. Since the result of using this
                                technique is the production of quantitative data, repertory grids
                                have proved popular for evaluating the outputs from training
                                programmes in terms of people's views, behaviours or
                                perceptions.



Repertory Grid Analysis


Using an example (Figure 12.6), let us say we
                                want to evaluate an organization's appraisal system through
                                the perspectives of an employee. Designing a questionnaire or
                                interview schedule might bias the evaluation towards the issues and
                                concerns of the evaluator. Using personal construct theory, however,
                                this should not occur. The employee is asked to identify a set of
                                events connected to her recent appraisal that were of particular
                                significance to her (Elements in Figure
                                    12.6). She is asked to identify what it was about these
                                elements (constructs) that had been of particular significance to
                                her. Hence, for example, she decided that she had found some
                                elements motivating whilst others were demotivating. She then uses
                                the grid to allocate a score between 1 and 4 against each of her
                                constructs for each of the elements.
Figure 12.6
                                    Repertory grid showing an individual's constructs of an
                                    appraisal
Just glancing at Figure 12.6 reveals some quite
                                startling results. We can see that the appraisee found nearly all
                                aspects of the appraisal process either fairly or completely
                                demotivating. The reasons for this are not hard to identify. While
                                she found the preparation of the documentation for the appraisal
                                very helpful (perhaps in focusing her thoughts and identifying her
                                achievements) if time-consuming, the actual appraisal itself
                                obviously did not go well. She found the reviewing of progress and
                                the setting of new work objectives not at all helpful -
                                indeed, destructive. Feelings rather than analysis emerged -
                                and probably very negative feelings at that.
This is a relatively simple example of a repertory grid, with some
                                detailed and complex examples benefiting from the use of especially
                                designed computer software programs. Nevertheless, it serves to
                                illustrate the power of allowing someone to identify their own
                                constructs and interpretation of events. From an evaluation
                                perspective, it allows us to identify which aspects of the appraisal
                                programme may need review and overhaul - in this case, not
                                the documentation, but the interaction dynamics between appraiser
                                and appraisee. Perhaps we should continue the evaluation by looking
                                at the appraiser's personnel records - is he
                                sufficiently trained?



Critical Incidents
A critical incident is something that produces an emotional response
                                (whether positive or negative) in a person (Gray et al., 2000). As
                                an evaluation tool, this is a qualitative approach that asks
                                participants to comment on such events, often through the use of a
                                log or diary (see next section). There may be a
                                pact between evaluators and participants before the start of the
                                evaluation process whereby such diaries are acknowledged to be
                                confidential, with participants revealing and commenting on only
                                those critical incidents they are willing to divulge.



Critical Incidents


The analysis of critical incidents may also be useful in the
                                workplace itself. Here the effectiveness of a training or
                                development programme is evaluated (say, by managers or supervisors)
                                when they see how staff respond to critical incidents following a
                                training programme.


Learning Logs
We have already seen how logs or diaries can be used to keep a note
                                of critical incidents. But they can also be used by participants to
                                keep a note of any events, incidents, thoughts, learning outcomes or
                                unanticipated results of a programme. This can often provide a rich
                                source of illuminative data for evaluation - providing that
                                participants are willing to divulge the contents of such logs.
                                Questionnaires, and to a less extent, observations, are very common
                                in evaluation studies. The use of repertory grids, critical incident
                                analysis, and learning logs, etc., however, are far less common.
                                This is a pity because they all have the potential for generating
                                rich and illuminating data.



Quality Issues In Evaluation
One of the challenges of evaluations is that there are no precise rules
                            on how to plan and implement them. Judgement is called for. As Patton
                            (2002) warns, an inevitable trade-off will be faced between gathering as
                            much data as possible (and then face the costs of doing so) or reducing
                            costs, time and hence data, but then reducing confidence in the
                            evaluation findings. Looking at a problem in depth may produce detailed
                            results but leave other problems unanswered; conversely, examining a
                            range of problems might provide insufficient depth to be able to arrive
                            at any sensible conclusions. So, especially at the planning stage, an
                            evaluator needs to decide on what aspects of a programme should be
                            evaluated, and whether all the outcomes require scrutiny or only
                            selected elements. The evaluator's role, then, may be to get
                            stakeholders or sponsors to narrow the focus of the evaluation to a more
                            feasible list of questions.
The quality of any evaluation process is also deeply influenced by the
                            familiar issues of validity, reliability and objectivity. Let us look at
                            each of these in turn, within the context of the evaluation process.

Validity
As we saw in Chapter 6, for a research
                                instrument to be valid, it must measure what it was intended to
                                measure. Sometimes face validity may be sufficient, that is, the
                                extent to which an instrument looks as though it will measure
                                what it is intended to measure. This rather unscientific approach is
                                held in low regard by measurement experts. Patton (2002), however,
                                advises more optimistically that it may have some value. It may, for
                                example, help managers and those responsible for implementing
                                evaluation findings to have confidence in the evaluation instrument
                                - and hence in the evaluation results. House (1980) suggests
                                that goal-based evaluations often offer high levels of face validity
                                because their objectives are made explicit to all concerned.



Validity


One of the most sought
                                after measurements is that of predictive validity, that is, the
                                extent to which the results of an evaluation can be used to predict
                                events, usually the impact of a programme on participant
                                performance. As we saw earlier, one of the weaknesses of many
                                evaluation studies is that they tend to focus on whether
                                participants liked, or thought they benefited from, the programme
                                rather than measuring whether new skills or attitudes resulted.
As Patton (2002) points out, validity may be threatened when
                                observation methods are being used and participants know that they
                                are being observed. This is because they may behave quite
                                differently in situations where they are not observed. This suggests
                                that covert observation may be more valid and reliable (although
                                ethical considerations then arise). Yet, it needs to be borne in
                                mind that even covert observation only picks up observable
                                behaviours and not what is in people's minds. The data,
                                therefore, are selective. Validity may be improved by long-term
                                observations where observers and participants get to know one
                                another (Longitudinal focus, see Table
                                    12.2).
House (1980) contends that systems evaluation often tends to produce
                                valid and reliable evidence because data are produced in a way that
                                lends them to replication by other evaluators. Contrast this with
                                other evaluation approaches where data can involve large elements of
                                personal interpretation. Reay (1994) provides a useful example (Case
                                Study 12.2) of what can, at least potentially, go wrong when the
                                evaluation process fails to address validity issues.

Case Study 12.2

Invalid Evaluation - Getting It Wrong
                                        On A Friday Afternoon
A company training department trained workers in the goods
                                        depot to stock-take every Friday afternoon. All aspects of
                                        stock-taking were demonstrated and explained and at the end
                                        of the course there was an evaluation which gathered data on
                                        the costs of the training programme (including down time and
                                        the costs incurred in lost production when trainees were not
                                        working), the likely savings through increased productivity
                                        and an assessment of what people had actually learned. The
                                        evaluation 'proved' that the course was
                                        successful.
Then, one Friday afternoon, the depot became extremely busy
                                        and the stock-taking was not done. Next week chaos resulted
                                        as the computer systems failed to cope with out-of-date
                                        information. The result was that orders were not met and
                                        customers complained.
Why had this happened? The reason was that nobody had
                                        explained to the stock-taking employees that stock-taking
                                        was important on a Friday afternoon. They had simply
                                        assumed that it was something they did when they
                                        weren't busy. The evaluation had been invalid. It
                                        hadn't asked the question: 'Do these people
                                        know why they are performing this task?' The
                                        evaluation had failed to spot a vital missing training
                                        objective.


Source: Adapted from Reay, 1994



Activity 12.4
Using the summary of evaluation types in Table
                                        12.1, suggest which evaluation approaches were applied
                                    in Case Study 12.2. Are there any additional ones that you think
                                        should have been applied?
Suggested answers are provided at the end of the chapter.




Reliability
Recalling Oppenheim (1992), for a research instrument to be reliable
                                it must be consistent. So to prove the reliability of an evaluation
                                tool, we could attempt to confirm its findings by looking at other
                                data sources. For example, say a study found that a once popular
                                course was now receiving quite negative evaluations. It might be
                                prudent to look at documentation on the kinds of participants coming
                                on the programme - they might be more experienced or senior
                                than previous participants and not find the course of particular
                                value or sufficiently demanding. Reliability can also be measured by
                                giving the data to another trainer or evaluator to see if they reach
                                similar conclusions (inter-judge reliability).
Essentially, as Patton (2002) advises, a trade-off exists between the
                                size and significance of a programme and the amount of evaluation
                                error that can be tolerated. In the case of a summative evaluation
                                of, say, a global coaching programme, involving large amounts of
                                expenditure, we would want to see a robust evaluation involving
                                reliable instruments (or at least as reliable as possible) using a
                                large sample. In contrast, a small-scale coaching programme
                                involving few people might only require a relatively informal,
                                formative evaluation to highlight areas for improvement, reliability
                                not being a major point of concern.


Objectivity
Concern for objectivity may be particularly strong from evaluators
                                who believe in forms of 'scientific' or experimental
                                evaluation and an emphasis on measurement, manipulation of
                                variables, quantifiable outputs and distance (physical and critical)
                                from what is being observed. But, as Patton dryly comments:
                                'Distance does not guarantee objectivity; it merely
                                guarantees distance' (2002: 575). This issue, according to
                                Patton, is not one of objectivity as such, but is about the
                                credibility of the evaluator and the extent to which fairness and
                                balance are addressed. This may mean abandoning any positivist
                                notion that there is one objective 'truth' out there,
                                and instead focusing on people's multiple perspectives and
                                interpretations of events.
Certainly, there are dangers when those designing and delivering a
                                programme are also those who conduct the evaluations. There may be a
                                sense of ownership that might be difficult to overcome. Either
                                evaluators must be aware of the danger of subjectivity and try to
                                address it, or they could bring in external consultants to conduct
                                the evaluation. Of course, even when all the issues of validity,
                                reliability and objectivity have been addressed, we may end up with
                                the 'so what?' conclusion. If evaluation results tell
                                us that 82 per cent of respondents scored a programme as either
                                'excellent' or 'good' what does this
                                really tell us? Probably not very much. As Patton (2002) suggests,
                                the outcomes of evaluation have to be compared with something else
                                for them to have any meaning, such as:
The outcomes of similar programmes.The outcomes of the same programme delivered on a previous
                                        occasion.The outcomes of model programmes in the same field.The stated goals of the programme.External standards developed by professional bodies.
Hence, evaluation should be seen less as a 'snapshot',
                                than a measurement of indicators over time.



Planning The Evaluation Report
Evaluation reports may have a multiplicity of potential audiences with
                            quite different needs. Funding agencies, steering groups and managers
                            may be interested in technical issues arising from evaluation, not least because some of
                            these may require action. This does not mean that they need all of the
                            report - they may prefer an executive summary - but they
                            will expect that the technical detail is available should they need it.
                            Programme clients may not require so much technical detail but will want
                            to know the evaluation's findings and its impact on themselves
                            personally. Morris et al. (1987) present a summary (Figure
                                12.7) of the kinds of communication methods that can be used to
                            report evaluation findings to different groups.



Evaluation Report Writing


Figure 12.7
                                Communication methods for a variety of audiencesSource: Adapted from Morris et al.,
                                1987
Clearly, some of the formats suggested in Figure
                                12.7 require the production of quite formal and large-scale
                            documents. If effective action is to result from these reports, it is
                            important that they are properly structured, a typical example being a
                            table of contents, an executive summary, the main body of the report and
                            appendices. Campbell (1997) suggests the following outline, described in
                                Figure 12.8.
Remember, you will have to write clearly and concisely for your intended
                            audience (see Chapter 19). Make as much use of
                            figures and tables as is feasible, as these provide accessible summaries
                            of the data and serve to break up the text. Planning the evaluation
                            report may include allowing time for the review (evaluation!) of the
                            report by a colleague or a helpful member of the intended audience, so
                            that errors, inconsistencies and misunderstandings can be
                            eliminated.
Figure 12.8 Format
                                for an evaluation reportSource: Adapted from Campbell,
                                1997



Enhancing The Impact Of Evaluation
Having completed an evaluation, how can you ensure that its findings lead
                            to change or improvements? As Patton (2002) points out, the key is
                            getting the right information to the people who need it and also
                            encouraging those people to actually make use of the information in
                            forging policy and decision making. This may not always be easy.
                            Evaluations may be 'ritualistic', conducted so that an
                            agency can delay having to make a decision on a difficult subject
                            (Weiss, 1984). One, obvious, approach is to ensure that the evaluation
                            report is of high quality and worth reading and acting on. For example,
                            make sure that conclusions and recommendations actually fit the data and
                            are compatible with the objectives of the evaluation study. Campbell
                            (1997) also strongly recommends the production of action plans,
                            providing precise details of remedial measures required and their
                            timing.
A key factor here is making sure that these findings do not come as a
                            shock to the programme or evaluation sponsors. People do not like
                            surprises, particularly when money and resources have been invested in a
                            policy, system or programme.
A number of steps can be taken to improve the probability of an
                            evaluation being accepted:
Involve sponsors in formulating the objectives and the design of
                                    the evaluation to gain their interest and commitment.Get commitment from senior stakeholders in advance of the
                                    evaluation that action will be taken on the basis of
                                    results.Consider establishing a steering group to monitor and help the
                                    evaluation project and get senior stakeholders onto the group if
                                    possible to increase its credibility.Keep sponsors informed of outputs (particularly unexpected ones)
                                    as they occur.
Consider producing several reports, one for each type of audience. Senior
                            managers, as we have seen, may not have either the time or the
                            inclination to read complete reports and may prefer an executive
                            summary. But take care to ensure that different versions contain similar
                            content and recommendations - the difference should be one of
                            presentation. Ensure that not only managers receive the report but all
                            other relevant stakeholders.


The Ethics Of Evaluation
Ballantine et al. (2000) provide a framework of considerations to be
                            taken into account in any attempt to mount an ethical approach to
                            evaluation. Referring to the work of Habermas (1972), they warn that
                            society is becoming less aware of ethical choices because these are
                            being rationalized as either technical or economic decisions. Science is
                            being absorbed into this discourse and presented as politically neutral
                            and theoretically objective. According to Habermas (1972), however,
                            knowledge always serves the vested interests of one group or another.
                            Ballantine et al. (2000) therefore suggest five constraints (based on
                            the work of Kettner, 1993) that can set the conditions for a
                            'truly moral dialogue'. These comprise:
The generality constraint: participation in a discourse
                                    or discussion must be as wide as possible, and present the views
                                    of all affected interest groups.The autonomous evaluation constraint: participants must
                                    be allowed to introduce and challenge any assertions and any
                                    interests stated.The role taking constraint: participants must give equal
                                    weight to the interests of others alongside their own
                                        interests.The power constraint: a participant should not appeal to
                                    any hierarchical authority to legitimate their argument.The transparency authority: participants must openly
                                    declare their goals and intentions.



Ethics in Evaluation


To illustrate these, Ballantine et al. (2000) present a real life example
                            from the City of London that is summarized in Case Study 12.3.

Case Study 12.3

Short Supply Of Ethics At The Stock Exchange
In the late 1980s and early 1990s, the London Stock Exchange
                                    invested £80 million in Taurus, a major new information
                                    systems project. The project failed and the system was never
                                    completed. Ballantine, Levy, Martin, Munro and Powell (2000)
                                    suggest that this was due to a failure to engage in rational
                                    moral discourse (discussion) during its evaluation, design and
                                    development.
The generality constraint was met during the project to
                                    the extent that there were a large variety of stakeholders (the
                                    Stock Exchange itself, its stockbroking member firms both large
                                    and small, company registrars and other financial institutions).
                                    One of the problems, however, was that these stakeholders held
                                    conflicting requirements. The autonomous evaluation
                                        constraint played a significant part in the demise of
                                    the project because the planning process was quite well
                                    developed before participants really began to challenge its
                                    rationale and make their own case. The design team were
                                    motivated by largely technical considerations and failed to
                                    question whether the project was actually worthwhile.
There is little evidence that the role taking constraint
                                    was adhered to because the more powerful stakeholders
                                    (institutional investors) paid little attention to the interests
                                    of smaller parties (for example, private investors and small
                                    stockbroking firms). Indeed, the inability of different
                                    stakeholders to take the views and interests of others seriously
                                    was one of the main reasons that led to the Taurus
                                    project's collapse. The result was that rather than the
                                    creation of one seamless system, about 17 alternative systems
                                    were welded together. The power constraint was not met
                                    because, although the chief executive of the Stock Exchange had
                                    wanted to stop the project, it had already gained too much
                                    momentum and support from the international banks. Finally, in
                                    terms of the transparency authority, it is clear that not
                                    all participants' objectives were made explicit from the
                                    start.
Ballantine et al. caution that if the managers and designers
                                    involved in the project had paid more attention to a moral
                                    discourse, then the political and ethical issues at stake might
                                    have been given more consideration. The result would have been
                                    either a project that was more in line with what stakeholders
                                    wanted, or the project would have been suspended long before it
                                    was, and losses minimized.


Source: Adapted from Ballantine et al., 2000



Activity 12.5
Taking the information provided in Case Study 12.3, and using
                                Ballantine et al.'s five constraints, describe a
                                'truly moral' and ethical process of collaboration and
                                dialogue that could, in principle, have led to a more positive
                                outcome.



Figure 12.9 A
                                framework for ethical evaluationSource: Ballantine et al., 2000
Using some of the principles outlined in the discussion of constraints,
                            above, Ballantine et al. (2000) have constructed a framework for the
                            ethical evaluation of a programme. While they focus this on information
                            systems, it also offers a useful guide for evaluations of any kind (see
                                Figure 12.9). They argue that there
                            are six general factors that influence the choice of evaluation
                            approach: philosophy, power, culture, management style and the kind of
                            evaluator and resources available (see left column in Figure
                                12.9). As we saw earlier, different schools of evaluation (and therefore philosophical
                            approaches) have a direct bearing on what is evaluated, the purpose of
                            evaluation and the tools used.
So, in Figure 12.9, the left-hand side of
                            each of the ranges represents a more expert and controlling approach to
                            evaluation, while the right-hand side emphasizes participation and
                            learning. The framework can be used to consider the amount of thought
                            given to ethics by each of the evaluation approaches. According to
                            Ballantine et al. (2000), the more ethical approaches are to be found at
                            the right end of each of the ranges, because more consideration is given
                            to the views of those on the receiving end of the evaluation process.
                            But the authors acknowledge that there may be organizational
                            circumstances when priorities other than ethical factors may be
                            uppermost.
The ethical framework can be used to provide guidance on how ethics can
                            be incorporated into the decision making process. It can also be used as
                            a check on internal consistency, to see whether ethical approaches are
                            consistent across all six influences.


Summary
Evaluation involves the systematic collection of data about the
                                    characteristics of a programme, product, policy or service.The focus of evaluation can be on trainees' reactions to
                                    a programme, how much new knowledge they have gained, how much
                                    this is transferred into better job performance and other
                                    organizational criteria.Like most approaches to research, evaluation involves different
                                    schools or perspectives, ranging from experimental and
                                    quasi-experimental with an emphasis on the measurement of
                                    outcomes and quantifiable data, to illuminative perspectives
                                    with a focus on processes and the multiple perspectives of
                                    participants.Data can be collected from various informants and through
                                    observations, involving a wider range of stakeholders than just
                                    participants.Data collection tools include questionnaires, assessment tests
                                    (since an important outcome of evaluation is a measurement of
                                    what participants have actually learned), learning logs and
                                    documentation of critical incidents.The principles of validity, reliability and objectivity apply as
                                    much to evaluation as they do to many other aspects of
                                    research.The impact of evaluation is enhanced if stakeholders are kept
                                    informed of outcomes as they arise - particularly if they
                                    are going to be unwelcome or unexpected. Care should be taken to
                                    avoid redundancy of information, providing different
                                    stakeholders with different versions of evaluation reports on
                                    the basis of what they need to know.Evaluation that fails to take into account ethical issues will
                                    often be doomed to failure. Ethical approaches include a focus
                                    on the individual needs of people rather than the goals of
                                    organizations, on making the purpose of the evaluation
                                    transparent to those being evaluated, and encouraging
                                    participation in the evaluation process.


Review Questions
Why is it that so much evaluation is undertaken at the level
                                        of reaction (Level 1 of Kirkpatrick's model)?Explain the pros and cons of making more use of control
                                        groups in evaluation studies. If 'objectivity'
                                        is the goal, what other approaches can be implemented, other
                                        than the use of control groups?How would you present the negative results of an evaluation
                                        study to the client who commissioned it? Think of this in
                                        terms of timing, impact on respondents and other
                                        stakeholders, impact on the client, and ethical codes of
                                        research practice.



Further Reading
Clarke, A. (1999) Evaluation Research: An Introduction to Principles,
                                Methods and Practice. London: Sage. Deals with a range of
                            evaluation paradigms, and data collection methods and provides some case
                            studies of evaluation in the education, healthcare and criminal justice
                            systems.
Patton, M.Q. (2002) Qualitative Research and Evaluation Methods,
                            3rd edn. Newbury Park, CA: Sage. Still one of the best books on
                            qualitative methods, with a substantial section on models of
                            evaluation.
Rossi, P.H., Lipsey, L.W. and Freeman, H.E. (2003) Evaluation: A
                                Systematic Approach, 7th edn. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage. Provides
                            a wide range of evaluation approaches including collaborative and
                            empowerment evaluation. Packed with examples.
Russ-Eft, D. and Preskill, H. (2009) Evaluation in Organizations: A
                                Systematic Approach to Enhancing Learning, Performance and
                                Change. Cambridge, MA: Persius Publishing. Discusses the
                            evolution of evaluation as a method and offers a wide range of
                            approaches to data collection, including surveys, focus groups and
                            observation. Suggests strategies for implementing effective evaluation
                            programmes in organizations.


Journal Resources
Eduardo Tasca, J., Ensslin, L., Rolim Ensslin, S. and Alves, M.B.M.
                            (2010) 'An approach for selecting a theoretical framework for the
                            evaluation of training programs', Journal of European
                                Industrial Training, 34(7): 631-655. A study into the
                            ways in which training programmes have been evaluated, including the
                            main journal sources where evaluation results have been published.
Marsden, D. and Littler, D. (2000) 'Repertory grid technique
                            - An interpretive research framework', European Journal
                                of Marketing, 34(7): 816-834. Demonstrates application of
                            the repertory grid to a study of consumer behaviour.
Regeer, B.J., Hoes, A-C., Saane, M. van, Caron-Flinterman, F.F. and
                            Bunders, J.F.G. (2009) 'Six guiding principles for evaluating
                            mode-2 strategies for sustainable development', American
                                Journal of Evaluation, 30(4): 515-537. Describes
                            evaluation methods involved in sustainable development programmes,
                            including progress assessment, goal-oriented evaluation and programme
                            theory evaluation.



Suggested Answers For Activity 12.1 (Selected
                            Examples)





Suggested Answers For Activity 12.4
The main evaluation approach seems to have been confined to a
                            cost-benefit analysis. Perhaps a more prudent approach would have
                            been to evaluate the outcomes, goals or the effectiveness of the
                            programme. A descriptive focus might also have illuminated what was
                            actually happening to participants when taking the course.

Don't forget to visit the companion website at https://study.sagepub.com/grayresearchbusiness for the
                                following resources which support this chapter:

















13 Action Research And Change In
                        Business

Chapter Introduction

Chapter Outline
What is action research?The action research processThe role of researchers and participantsMethods of data gatheringValidating action researchEthics and action research projectsSome of the limitations of action research


Keywords
Participatory action researchAction scienceCooperative inquiryCritical colleaguesEthics



Icon Key







Author Video







Chapter Objectives
After reading this chapter you will be able to:
Distinguish between action research and other research
                                        methodologies.Distinguish between the variety of approaches within action
                                        research.Plan a project, keeping in mind some of the potential
                                        limitations of action research.Describe the processes involved in conducting an action
                                        research project, and methods for gathering data.



Action research methodology symbolizes much of what modern research is
                            about - analysing the world but also trying to change it. Whereas
                            some research paradigms may be content to add to the store of knowledge,
                            action research asks the question: 'What can I do about
                            it?' In addressing real world problems, the action researcher
                            becomes directly involved in the research process as a change agent,
                            devoted not only to studying organizations, communities and processes
                            but also to improving them. Contrast this with other research paradigms
                            where the researcher is seen as a detached scientist, intent on avoiding
                            any action that might bias or tarnish the results. Action research, in
                            contrast, is committed and intentional but also informed and systematic.
                            Lincoln (2001) sees strong connections, for example, between action
                            research and constructivism, both of which claim the impossibility of
                            value-free knowledge. But action researchers do not simply throw
                            themselves into the research process. As we will see, there are
                            planning, implementation and ethical issues that need addressing.
The term 'action research' was first coined by Lewin in
                            1946, by which he meant a process through which theory building and
                            research on practical problems should be combined. Given the context of
                            post-war reconstruction in which the theory was developed, it is not
                            surprising that Lewin viewed action research as a way of improving
                            social behaviour and encouraging social change. But his approach to such
                            change was similar to the contemporary, traditional, scientific paradigm
                            in that it recognized the value of experimentation and the importance of
                            creating knowledge. But, while traditional science begins with
                            substantial knowledge about hypothetical relationships, action research
                            begins with very few facts. Lewin also argued that it was important to
                            conduct social experiments in natural, social settings, not in the
                            artificial world of controlled laboratory environments. Action research
                            is also gestaltist in origin, that is, it sees issues as only being
                            understood not through the study of a single variable, but within a
                            holistic, complex social system.
Unfortunately, Lewin never wrote a systematic statement of his views
                            before his death in 1947. Hence, as Dickens and Watkins (1999) note,
                            there is still no definitive approach to action research and no unified
                            theory. However, according to Bowling (1997, cited in Badger, 2000),
                            Lewin's concept of action research as a means of social
                            engineering has now been replaced by one that emphasizes raising
                            awareness, empowerment and collaboration. There are still, however, a
                            number of disparate definitions and characterizations of action
                            research. McKay and Marshall (2001) even claim that the practice of
                            action research is somewhat enigmatic, with few guidelines for action
                            researchers to follow. This chapter, however, hopes, within the
                            constraints just identified, to offer some guidelines to practice.



What Is Action Research?
The term action research is a generic one and has been used to describe a
                            bewildering range of activities and methods. In brief, however, action
                            research is an approach that focuses on action and research
                            simultaneously and in a participative manner (Coghlan and Brannick,
                            2010). Within this approach there are varied methodologies, each with
                            their own priorities and modes of inquiry (although there are as many
                            overlaps and similarities between the approaches as there are
                            distinctions). Some, for example, focus on how communities can enact
                            change, particularly challenging issues such as injustice and social
                            exclusion. Others are based in a more organizational context and may
                            include how professional practitioners can improve their own
                            professional practice (McNiff and Whitehead, 2011).



Action Research


All approaches, however, have at least three common features:
Research subjects are themselves researchers or involved in a
                                    democratic partnership with a researcher.Research is seen as an agent of change.Data are generated from the direct experiences of research
                                    participants.
A mode of action research that takes this latter point particularly
                            seriously is participatory action research (PAR). McTaggart
                            (1997) warns that participation is much more than mere involvement.
                            Authentic participation means immersing people in the focus of the
                            enquiry and the research method, and involving them in data collection
                            and analysis. One of the primary aims of PAR is to transform situations
                            or structures in an egalitarian manner. Hence, it has been used to deal
                            with issues such as inner-city and rural poverty, education, mental
                            health, disability and domestic violence. In the 1990s, however, PAR has
                            also been taken up as a legitimate research approach by powerful
                            agencies such as government departments, universities and multinational
                            companies. In 1999, for example, the World Bank commissioned a
                            'Consultation with the Poor' involving over 20,000 people
                            in 23 countries. Gaventa and Cornwall argue that the key element in PAR
                            is a process of reflection, social learning and the development of
                            'critical consciousness' (2001: 76). This is particularly
                            so among oppressed groups of people, where non-experts play a central
                            role (Park, 2001).



PAR in Action


In contrast, another type of action research is what Coghlan (2001) terms
                                'insider action research', in which managers or
                            other professionals are engaged in action research projects in their own
                            organizations or contexts. McNiff and Whitehead (2011) contrast the
                            kinds of questions practitioner-researchers might ask with those posed
                            by external social scientists (see Table
                                13.1).



PAR Inside Organizations




Source: Adapted from McNiff and
                                Whitehead, 2011

Often, action research projects
                            are undertaken as part of an academic programme of study such as an
                            executive MBA. The kinds of issues addressed often include systems
                            improvement, organizational learning and the management of change. One
                            of the advantages of adopting insider action research is that managers
                            and professional practitioners have an intimate knowledge of the
                            organization being studied - they know its culture, its jargon
                            and its personal networks. They can also participate freely in
                            discussions or merely observe what is going on without people
                            necessarily being aware that they are being researched. On the other
                            hand, it may be difficult at times to maintain a sense of detachment and
                            it may sometimes prove difficult for an insider to cross departmental,
                            hierarchical or network boundaries.

Top Tip 13.1
If you are considering undertaking an insider action research
                                project, the first step is to ensure that you gain a sponsor for
                                your project before you start. The sponsor may offer financial
                                backing for the project, but at a minimum, should be someone who
                                will give it 'political' backing, that is, they are
                                willing to speak up for the project when asked. This sponsor should,
                                preferably, be a senior manager and someone respected and well
                                'networked' within the organization.



Top Tip: Using Action Research





An alternative approach is external action research, where the
                            researcher may be independent of the professional context, but work
                            within it and alongside professional practitioners (for example,
                            business leaders, managers, trainers or HR professionals) to achieve
                            change. Hence, action research is a process of collaboration for
                            bringing about change. The exact nature of this collaboration, however,
                            may be problematic.

Activity 13.1
Examine each of the following statements, only two of which are
                                typical of action research statements. Which are they?
What is happening here?How can I improve the quality of my professional
                                        practice?How can this research method be improved?What implications does my research have for all
                                        practitioners in my profession?
Suggested answers are provided at the end of the chapter.



Another approach to action research is action science, which
                            attempts to integrate practical problem solving with theory building and
                            change. Friedman (2001) acknowledges that it is difficult to locate a
                            single, comprehensive definition of action science, but suggests that it
                            involves a form of social practice which integrates both the production
                            and use of knowledge in order to promote learning with and among
                            individuals and systems. The objective of action science is to help
                            practitioners to 'discover the tacit choices they have made about
                            their perceptions of reality, about their goals and about their
                            strategies for achieving them' (Friedman, 2001: 160). To achieve
                            this, communities of practice are created in which both practitioners
                            and researchers make explicit their interpretations, which can then be
                            made subject to rigorous testing for their validity.



Action Science Example


Gummesson (2000) divides action
                            science into societal action science and management action
                                science. The former is concerned with the kinds of macro social,
                            political and economic issues that arise, say, when a company is
                            threatened with closure. This could involve, for example, a
                            participatory study by groups of workers who are directly threatened by
                            the closure. Such an approach stems from a belief that research should
                            not lie in the hands of 'professional experts', who will
                            have their own agendas and subjective biases.
Management action science is focused on a company as a business. Here,
                            the action researcher has the difficult task of tackling issues and
                            producing results that are of value to both science and to business.
                            Thus, from a theoretical perspective, the action researcher will seek to
                            contribute to knowledge, understanding and theoretical perspectives. But
                            this must also be knowledge that can be applied and 'validated in
                            action' (Gummesson, 2000: 119). This means that the life of the
                            action scientist is often prone to role conflict and ambiguity. Another
                            aspect of management action science is that it is interactive, that is,
                            it requires close collaboration between the researcher and the company
                            client. Again, this may pose problems for the researcher who may be
                            pressurized to change original research designs in the interests of
                            producing short-term actionable results.
Some important differences between participant action research and action
                            science are highlighted by Whyte (1991). Action science focuses more
                            heavily on interpersonal relationships, but also requires the
                            intervention team to keep control of both the intervention and the
                            research process (often as detached observers). In contrast,
                            participatory action research, for example, involves greater sharing of
                            control between practitioners and researchers.
Finally, cooperative inquiry is related to action research in that
                            both focus on research with people rather than research on people. Where
                            cooperative inquiry differs is in the way collaboration between
                            researchers and participants takes place. Heron and Reason describe how
                            co-subjects become 'immersed in and engaged with their action and
                            experience' (2001: 180). They develop a degree of co-openness to
                            what is happening through deep experiential engagement, often generated
                            through music, drawing, drama and dance.
This relationship between theory (usually produced by academics) and
                            practice (the domain, normally of practitioners), has been seen in
                            dichotomous terms of theory versus practice (Swanson, 2001). For Short
                            (2006), the gap has many different names: the research-practice
                            gap; the implementation gap; the research-practice divide; the
                            theory-practice void; and the 'disconnect' between
                            researchers and research consumers. Research-driven research for
                            researchers is termed Mode 1 research. However, one of the potential
                            benefits of action research is that it provides opportunities for
                            bringing researchers and practitioners together where research
                            objectives and research designs are jointly negotiated and implemented
                            - Mode 2 research (Gray, Iles and Watson, 2011).


Source: Adapted from Stringer,
                                2013

We can see, then, that action
                            research involves quite a varied range of approaches to research both in
                            terms of the relationship between researcher and participants and the
                            focus of the research itself. Table
                                13.2 provides a summary of the kinds of action research projects
                            that have been undertaken in different sectors.


The Action Research Process
McNiff et al. (1996) caution that it is wise at the outset to be very
                            realistic about what action research can achieve. You may also have to
                            recognize that it is easier to change your own perspectives and
                            professional practice than that of others. The success of an action
                            research project will depend, in large measure, on your success with
                            working with other people, so you need to identify the range of people
                            who will be involved. These will certainly include participants, who may
                            include colleagues or fellow employees. It is essential to pay very
                            close attention to gaining access and to maintaining relationships. This
                            is helped by keeping participants informed about the progress of the
                            research and by thanking them for their assistance. But other possible
                            collaborative sources might include:
Critical colleagues, those who work with you and who may be
                                    willing to discuss your research, critically but supportively.
                                    It is advisable to negotiate the ground rules for engagement at
                                    the start of the project.Adviser/mentor/tutor, whose role is to challenge your thinking
                                    so that the direction of the project can be refocused or ideas
                                    reshaped.Action research colleagues, who may be fellow students on a
                                    taught programme or colleagues in a professional development
                                    programme. These people are key for providing support and
                                    sharing information and resources.The validating group of colleagues, managers or fellow
                                    professionals who may be used to comment critically on the
                                    outcomes of the project (see Validating action research, p.
                                    350).



Participatory Action Research as Practice


Failure to engage the cooperation of people who can give you advice and
                            support may actually endanger your project (see Case Study
                                13.2).

Top Tip 13.2
It may help to bring all or some of these people together in a more
                                formal structure such as a project Steering Group. The Steering
                                Group could have Terms of Reference for what it has been set up to
                                achieve, a chairperson (possibly the project sponsor - see Top Tip 13.1), representatives
                                of the participants involved in the project, and, of course, the
                                action researcher(s). This would be typical of a Mode 2 research
                                project with close collaboration between academics and
                                practitioners.



Example Terms of Reference





As Stringer (2013) shows, the
                            aim of action research is not to present finalized
                            'answers' to problems, but to reveal the different truths
                            and realities (constructions) held legitimately by different groups and
                            individuals. People with identical information will interpret it in
                            different ways, depending on their previous experiences, world view and
                            culture. The task of action researchers, therefore, is to bring people
                            with divergent views and perceptions together so that they can
                            collectively formulate a joint construction.
The action research process itself, as originally conceived by Lewin, is
                            a cyclical one, working through a series of steps including planning,
                            action, and observing and evaluating the effects of that action. Note
                            that these stages overlap, meaning that some activities are running in
                            parallel with each other. For example, a team could plan a project, and
                            begin to execute some change, but then modify these plans on the basis
                            of lessons learnt through action. Each of these steps is continually
                            monitored to make adjustments as needed (see Figure
                                13.1). McTaggart (1997) suggests an alternative approach. Rather
                            than see this as an entire project, a good way to begin is to collect
                            some initial data in an area of general interest (a reconnaissance),
                            then to reflect before making a plan for action. Hence, execution
                            (albeit on a small scale) precedes planning.
While this section has looked at action research as a neatly planned and
                            orderly process, Dickens and Watkins warn that this is not always the
                            case and that 'it can go forward, backward, and all directions at
                            once' (1999: 135). We will explore each of the core action
                            research stages in more detail next.

Planning: Getting The Focus Right
Choosing a focus for the action research project may, at first sight,
                                seem a relatively simple task, yet it is one that often causes
                                researchers the most difficulty. This is because there are often so
                                many issues that could be addressed, the problem is prioritizing
                                between them. One of the keys to identifying a suitable research
                                topic is having a sense of commitment to improvement (McNiff et al.,
                                1996). If undertaking research within your own professional
                                practice, you could, for example, ask yourself questions such
                                as:
How can I reduce my stress levels at work?How can we improve the quality of the consultancy and advice
                                        we give in the organization?How can we achieve better working relationships within the
                                        company's project teams?



Action Research Focus


Image 13.1
                                    Gaining collaboration through a steering group© iStock.com / Rawpixel Ltd
Figure 13.1
                                    The action research model
But there is an important difference between focusing on an issue
                                that you consider vital or interesting and one that can actually be
                                practically addressed. You must, then, also consider the matter of
                                feasibility - do I have the time, access to participants and
                                resources to actually tackle this issue and to bring about change?
                                If the answer to the above question is 'Yes' then you
                                will probably want to start with at least a tentative working
                                hypothesis: 'If I do this, then it is likely that X might
                                happen'. Unlike experimental research, this is not an attempt
                                to identify causal relationships between variables. It is trying to
                                identify the kinds of actions that can lead to positive change.
This means meeting with stakeholders to obtain a consensus on the
                                actions that are planned. As Stringer (2013) makes clear, it is
                                essential that the voices of all are heard, so that appropriate
                                goals can be set. For planning purposes, the focus becomes one of
                                establishing:
Why activities are required.What actions need to be taken.How tasks are to be accomplished.Who is to be responsible for each activity.Where the tasks are going to be performed.When the activities are going to commence and when they are
                                        to be completed.
Mumford (2001) advises that a formal 'action' document
                                should be drawn up with precise specifications of processes,
                                objectives and outputs, and that this should be signed by both
                                management and the researcher and given to all interested parties.
                                Avison et al. (2001) refer to such a document as 'action warrants' that define
                                the authority under which action can be taken, specifying the
                                balance of authority between researchers and internal organizational
                                participants. Sometimes projects may not begin with an action
                                warrant because they are relatively informal or the precise nature
                                and scope of the problem have not been defined, or it is initially
                                not seen as serious. Once the problem and research objectives become
                                clearer, then an organization may decide it needs the sort of formal
                                control structures that an action warrant can specify.
In aiming to get the focus of the research project right, it is vital
                                to make our own personal values explicit, so that we can explore the
                                relationship between these values and our own behaviour. Although we
                                all have value systems, we may be forced by organizational
                                constraints to act in ways that contradict them. For example, a
                                headteacher might espouse democratic forms of work organization, but
                                act in quite authoritarian ways towards teachers. Action
                                research:

is a way of working that helps us to identify the things we
                                    believe in and then work systematically and collaboratively one
                                    step at a time, to make them come true. (McNiff et al.,
                                    1996)


Activity 13.2
In planning your own action research project: (a) make a list of
                                    the likely participants (other than yourself); (b) identify
                                    those who might be prepared to give you critical advice and
                                    support; (c) select a suitable action research subject; and (d)
                                    formulate a provisional hypothesis for the project.



If you are coming into an action research project from the outside,
                                you will need to make contact with key stakeholders and interest
                                groups as quickly as possible. These groups might include not only
                                those people most directly concerned with the issue, but also
                                managers and sponsors. It may also be necessary to contact, and get
                                to know, unofficial opinion leaders or gatekeepers.


Acting: Gathering Evidence
Having identified the focus of your research, the next step is
                                deciding what sort of actions to initiate and then what data to
                                gather. It is usually best to focus on the kinds of performance
                                indicators that show whether you, or others who are the focus of
                                your research, are being effective in initiating change or not.
                                Hence, if you were looking at improving communications between
                                yourself and a group of clients, then you could try to locate
                                critical incidents of when communication was progressing well, and
                                when it was subject to problems. Data collection should be as
                                comprehensive as possible, because important insights may only
                                emerge once the data are being analysed. This means that you may
                                have to use a wide range of data gathering tools, such as interviews
                                (individual and focus groups), participant or non-participant
                                observation, informal meetings and document analysis. For every
                                piece of data, ensure that you record the date, time, place and the
                                people who were present. Transcripts of conversations and records of
                                meetings should be authenticated by getting them signed by a
                                relevant participant.
The main problem is knowing how much data to gather without the
                                process becoming unwieldy and unmanageable. As usual, the key is
                                aiming to achieve a representative selection from the possible range
                                of data. So, if you are trying to investigate the working
                                relationships of a team of
                                12 health and safety inspectors, one approach would be to choose
                                four of them, if you were sure that they were typical of the group
                                as a whole. Stringer (2013) also advises you should ensure that the
                                diversity of groups in a social setting are represented. For
                                example, in conducting an action research project among a group
                                encouraging entrepreneurship amongst under-privileged young people,
                                it would be important to ensure that different social classes and
                                ethnic groups were represented.
Stringer also suggests four alternative frameworks for assisting the
                                data gathering process, namely:
Interpretative questions. Participants might be encouraged
                                        to work through these in order to extend their understanding
                                        of the problem. These questions might include: what are the
                                        key elements of the problem? How is the problem affecting
                                        us? Who is being affected?Organizational review. Participants should focus on
                                        analysing various features of their organization, including:
                                        the general mission or purpose of the organization; its
                                        goals and objectives; the structure of the organization,
                                        including roles and responsibilities and the efficiency or
                                        otherwise with which they are conducted; the factors that
                                        inhibit the enactment of these responsibilities.Problem analysis. This is similar to concept mapping, only
                                        here participants are asked to identify the problem itself,
                                        the antecedents that led up to it and the major consequences
                                        that have ensued.Concept mapping. This is used by stakeholders to understand
                                        how different key elements in the problem relate to each
                                        other. The facilitator begins by drawing a word that sums up
                                        the central problem. Participants then add new labels to the
                                        chart that represent other elements associated with the
                                        problem. They then decide how the issues are linked. An
                                        example of a concept map is illustrated in Figure 13.2.


Observing: Analysing The Impact
Since action research is about taking action and often involves
                                experimentation, action researchers have to take note of the impact
                                of their actions. This might include providing authentic
                                descriptions of what has been achieved. These may be either factual
                                (for example, transcripts of conversations), subjective (such as,
                                diaries and personal reflections) or fictionalized accounts that
                                preserve the anonymity of participants but are used to highlight
                                issues explicitly.
Figure 13.2
                                    The data gathering process: concept mapping of team conflict
                                    within a workplace
On the other hand, the
                                impact analysis might take the form of meetings of stakeholders to
                                examine what has been achieved. This is not a case of looking at the
                                techniques and procedures that guide action research, but exploring
                                the sense of unity that inspires people to work together towards a
                                common good (Stringer, 2013). There should be opportunities for
                                participants to discuss their contributions and to describe what
                                they will do and the way in which they will go about it. The key to
                                action is participation, a shared intent, positive working
                                relationships and inclusivity. Of course, disagreements and
                                antagonisms might arise. The role of the action researcher is to
                                maintain a neutral stance and to act as a mediator to heal
                                conflict.

Top Tip 13.3
In meeting with stakeholders, try to ensure that participants are
                                    well briefed before stakeholder meetings and ensure that there
                                    are no sudden 'shocks' in terms of news about the
                                    project. People do not often react positively to the unexpected.
                                    Between meetings, consider keeping stakeholders briefed through
                                    either newsletters (in the case of very large projects) or
                                    emails.



Reflecting: Evaluating The Impact Of The Project
As we have seen, the aim of action research is the attainment of
                                change. So how will you evaluate that change has actually taken
                                place? The best approach, before you even start the project, is to
                                identify what criteria constitute evidence of change. Then, select a
                                piece of evidence from the data that you think demonstrates this
                                change and have the evidence judged (validated) by others. For
                                example, in an action research project aimed at reducing absentee
                                levels, the indicator of change would be improvements, over time, in
                                attendance rates.
The individual action researcher is not in a position to say whether
                                their actions have had an impact - it is for participants in
                                the project to judge for themselves. But action research is not just
                                about fostering change in organizations, it is about generating
                                learning among the action research participants. This too needs to
                                be a focus of reflection - what was learned, what is its
                                value, can it be applied elsewhere?
Having cycled through the planning, acting, observing and reflecting
                                stages (often a number of times), what should the action researcher
                                have to show for it? Coghlan (2001) suggests that the outputs of
                                action research should include evidence of:
How researchers engaged in the steps of action research, how
                                        they recorded their data and how they were a true reflection
                                        of what was studied.How they challenged and tested their own assumptions and
                                        interpretations of what was happening on a continual
                                        basis.How they accessed different views of what was happening,
                                        showing both confirming and contradictory
                                        interpretations.How these interpretations and analyses were grounded in
                                        academic theory and how this theory both confirmed and
                                        challenged the analysis.
In contrast, Stringer (2013) argues that good action research
                                projects have no well-defined ending. Instead, new realities emerge
                                that extend the process of inquiry. In the attendance example, mentioned above,
                                the project might discover high levels of job boredom, so motivating
                                and generating employee engagement might become the focus of a new
                                action research project. What people also should do is celebrate
                                their achievements. Mumford (2001), however, talks explicitly about
                                'getting out' of the action research setting through
                                the action researcher successfully handing over the knowledge needed
                                by the group he or she has been working with, so that they can
                                continue to solve their own problems. Hence, successful action
                                research projects are not just about bringing about change in
                                organizations, communities or networks, but about changing and
                                empowering people.



Workpace Action Research





The Role Of Researchers And Participants
In contrast to many other research methodologies, in action research the
                            role of the researcher is seen as more of a facilitator than an
                            'expert'. Stringer (2013) contrasts action research with
                            surveys, which he says are often limited in scope and frequently biased
                            by the agendas and perspectives of the people who commissioned or
                            constructed them (Stringer, 2013), that is, Mode 1 research. In action
                            research, the researcher is a catalyst for achieving change by
                            stimulating people to review their practices and to accept the need for
                            change. But the researcher is not there to offer blueprints but to
                            enable people to develop their own analysis of the issues facing them
                            and the potential solutions. This might mean getting people to consider
                            a range of possible solutions and their consequences. Once a plan has
                            been decided, the role of the action researcher is to help in its
                            implementation through analysing any weaknesses in the plan and by
                            helping to locate resources (including human resources and the
                            development of the necessary skills for the plan's success).


Source: Adapted from Stringer,
                                2013

Given the facilitative role of
                            the action researcher, the relationships and working processes between
                            researcher and participants are of central importance. According to
                            Stringer (2013), action research seeks to develop and maintain
                            non-exploitative social and personal relationships and to enhance the
                            social and emotional lives of those who participate. It is organized in
                            democratic, therapeutic and equitable ways that should engender a
                            community spirit. Table 13.3 summarizes some of the
                            key elements that contribute to this.

On The Web 13.1
Take a look at the wealth of action research sources at:

http://www.goshen.edu/soan/soan96p.htm

Evaluate some of these sources and note any that may be of value in
                                the future.



Action Research Sources





Methods Of Data Gathering
After planning the action research project, the next question is how to
                            gather the data. As in most research methods, a variety of techniques
                            are available, many of them already discussed in some detail in this
                            book. The key, however, it to ensure that data gathering is systematic
                            and provides a permanent record of what has taken place. As usual, it is
                            important to use a variety of methods if possible to allow for
                            triangulation.



Action Research Approach



Diaries
Whatever data gathering tool is used, it is probably advisable for
                                the researcher to keep a diary throughout the action research
                                project as it can, as a minimum, provide a factual description of
                                events, dates and people. But diaries are useful for a whole number
                                of other purposes, including providing:
An aide-mémoire of short notes for later
                                        reflection.A detailed portrait of events to provide a 'thick
                                        description' for later reports.A reflective account through which the researcher makes
                                        tentative interpretations of events, or through which the
                                        researcher records personal feelings and anxieties in order
                                        to try to understand them.An analytical tool that could contain a framing of the
                                        original research focus and a provisional analysis of the
                                        data as they are gathered.
If the action research project is a collaborative one, then it is
                                also possible to write collaborative diaries. These can be written
                                independently, and so provide a way of triangulating and checking
                                for different recall or interpretations of events. Alternatively,
                                they could be written interactively. The Internet offers some
                                flexible facilities here. For example, one researcher could send an
                                email offering opinions or reflections on a topic to a co-researcher
                                who would reply; the
                                original researcher would reply to this, and so on. Hence, an
                                interactive document is produced around a specific theme. Once the
                                theme is exhausted, one of the researchers could send an email on
                                another subject. Alternatively, using a computer-based discussion
                                forum, a group of action researchers or project participants could
                                debate and comment on subjects through a continuous flow of threaded
                                discussions or they could engage in a group Skype debate.


Observations, Interviews And Questionnaires
Entire chapters of this book have been devoted to these data
                                gathering methods and it is not the intention merely to repeat what
                                has already been said. However, one way in which action research
                                uses these methods differently, is that they are used in
                                collaboration with others. Take the example of a group of
                                consultants who frequently have to make presentations to company
                                chief executives. They could set up an action research project in
                                which they observe and video each other's practice
                                presentations and give feedback. Action research is often linked to
                                personal development.
It is usually unwise to use a questionnaire in action research unless
                                there are really good reasons for doing so. This is because they do
                                not help to generate the forms of collaborative problem solving that
                                action research requires. But the use of questionnaires is valid for
                                discovering information that could not be ascertained in any other
                                way, or for evaluating the effect of an action research intervention
                                - again, if data cannot be gathered using other methods.


Photography, Audio And Video Recordings
These media can be used either to stimulate discussion or recall
                                events during the research process, or as a means of capturing
                                evidence in data gathering (see Chapter
                                    20 on Visual Methods). In the case of the research process,
                                participants may sometimes need visual evidence to remind them of a
                                situation or just to stimulate ideas. Photographs or video can be
                                used to present evidence of changes that perhaps the action research
                                project has achieved. In the case of video, this is particularly
                                true if we are talking about changes in human behaviour.
Audio is valuable because it can be used as a kind of talking diary
                                that captures an entire conversation (McNiff et al., 1996). Of
                                course, this will often mean that an audio file will have to be
                                transcribed before it can be analysed. You may find it useful either
                                to play the file to your critical friends, or to show them the
                                transcript of the conversation.


Memory Work
Memory work is used to uncover and analyse earlier understandings of
                                social behaviour in personal and professional situations through the
                                framework of current understanding. First used by feminist
                                researchers, participants write stories about events or situations
                                they have experienced in their lives. These narratives, which are
                                written in the third person to create a sense of detachment, are
                                then discussed and analysed by the group. Each member of the group
                                then rewrites their original text in the light of the comments they
                                have received. In the final phase, the original and rewritten texts
                                of all group members are compared by the group. According to Schratz
                                (1996), what is important is that the memory work process allows the
                                group to explore issues and to learn.



Memory Work and Power


An illustration of how
                                action research data collection methods can be used in practice is
                                given in Case Study 13.1.

Case Study 13.1

Employee Non-Compliance With Company
                                        Information Systems Security
Puhakainen and Siponen (2010) report on an action research
                                        study into employee non-compliance with a company's
                                        information systems (IS) security policies. Most
                                        organizations use training programmes to instill better
                                        compliance attitudes and behaviour. However, there have been
                                        few studies as to what learning principles affect user
                                        compliance or the effectiveness of improved compliance
                                        behaviour. The researchers' aim was to launch a
                                        training programme and to evaluate its impact using action
                                        research.The 11-month action research project consisted of
                                        two research cycles. The first research cycle, lasting three
                                        months, involved the implementation of the IS security
                                        training programme. The second research cycle was theory
                                        refinement, in which a new communication process was added
                                        to make the IS security training programme more
                                        effective.
The first research cycle involved the implementation of the
                                        training programme to increase compliance with the
                                        company's email policy. In accordance with action
                                        research principles, the programme was executed in four
                                        phases: (1) identifying the problem, (2) planning the
                                        training, (3) delivering the training, and (4) evaluating
                                        the results. During Phase 1, an anonymous survey was used to
                                        explore to what extent the users were (a) aware of the
                                        existence of IS security policies and IS security risks, (b)
                                        able to apply the email policy and information
                                        classification rules in practice, and (c) aware of and able
                                        to use email encryption. In addition to the survey (N = 16),
                                        all 16 employees were interviewed. Phase 2 involved planning
                                        the training on the basis of the problems identified in
                                        Phase 1. In Phase 3, the training was delivered, with the
                                        first session held with technical staff and the researchers
                                        and IS security manager acting as instructors. Puhakainen
                                        and Siponen (2010) report that when the session started, all
                                        but two of the learners arrived late, and the atmosphere was
                                        hostile. For example, one software developer stated at the
                                        beginning of the session:

I have more important things to do than attend lectures
                                            on IS security. Such training is of no use to me or our
                                            team.

The use of the learners' own email documents in the
                                        training was useful, showing that they had sent a lot of
                                        confidential information unencrypted, including technical
                                        details of the design of the products and pricing
                                        information. This could result in a serious loss of
                                        competitive advantage to the company. Similar training
                                        sessions were also held with the company's six
                                        non-technical users who admitted that they also did not
                                        comply with the company's email policy and used
                                        unencrypted emails.
In Phase 4, the results of the training programme were
                                        evaluated, with all participants interviewed twice, through
                                        one-to-one and group interviews. Findings revealed most
                                        participants considered that the training had made them
                                        think about the consequences of sending unencrypted email.
                                        However, weaknesses remained, some arguing, for example,
                                        that the CEO was too passive in promoting IS security
                                        issues.
The second research cycle sought to refine the training
                                        intervention by incorporating a continuous IS security
                                        communication process that comprised three phases: (a)
                                        developing a new IS security communication and training
                                        process, (b) implementing the new process, and (c)
                                        evaluating the results. This cycle found that, for it to be
                                        taken seriously, IS security communication needed to be
                                        integrated into the company's normal communications
                                        efforts.


Source: Adapted from Puhakainen and Siponen, 2010




Activity 13.3
To what extent is Case Study 13.1 consistent with action research
                                    methodology? What was the role of participants in the design and
                                    delivery of the change (training and communications)
                                    programmes?
Suggested answers are provided at the end of the chapter.




Validating Action Research
Given that action research can involve the quite personal observations
                            and analysis of the researcher, using small samples or individual case
                            studies, the issue of validation is certainly no less important for this
                            than for other research methodologies. According to McNiff et al.
                            (1996), the purpose of validation in action research is to:
Test out key arguments with a critical audience to identify
                                    where there is a lack of clarity or focus.Sharpen claims to new knowledge and ensure that the data match
                                    these claims.Develop new ideas.
The starting place for establishing claims for the validity of action
                            research is with the researcher. McNiff (1988) suggests that the
                            researcher needs to demonstrate publicly that he or she has followed a
                            system of disciplined inquiry. This includes checking that any
                            judgements made about the data are reasonably fair and accurate.
Validation can be quite an informal process, but may also involve the use
                            of formal groups, especially selected to scrutinize the outcomes of an
                            action research project. These could include critical colleagues,
                            advisers or mentors, or fellow action research colleagues working on the
                            project. If formal groups are used, it is important to ensure that
                            participants both understand and can empathize with the context of the
                            research. Ideally, the group should also contain members from outside
                            the context who can provide a more detached and independent perspective.
                            For example, an action research project at a Job Centre, where the aim
                            is to help unemployed people find work, might include staff at the
                            Centre who advise clients and some unemployed clients themselves. But
                            the project steering committee could also include a representative from
                            the local Chamber of Commerce, representing local employers.
Waterman (1998) argues that the process of validation in action research
                            is strengthened by the 'to-ing and fro-ing' between the
                            elements in the action research spiral (planning, acting, observing and
                            reflection). Typically, action researchers are not satisfied with one
                            turn of the action research spiral but will repeat the process several
                            times, allowing for the refinement of ideas and practices.
Of course, not all of those involved in action research would agree that
                            validity is a necessary or feasible objective. Lincoln and Guba (1994),
                            you may recall, argue that instead of validity, the aim, certainly of
                            qualitative research, should be to establish the credibility of the
                            research through forging confidence in the accuracy of its
                            interpretations. As Grønhaug and Olson (1999) note, if the
                            validity of research is founded on a notion of scientific knowledge,
                            based upon rigorous testing of falsification, then action research may
                            prove lacking. However, claims for the generalizability of findings may
                            be made on the basis of systematic comparison of such findings with the
                            results from other settings, and by conducting more research to examine
                            the robustness of the generalizations. In a sense, this is not too
                            dissimilar to Flick's (2009) notion of case study replication
                            (see Figure 11.4, p. 284).



Ethics And Action Research Projects
The issue of ethics has been raised in nearly every chapter of this book,
                            and this chapter is no exception. Action research is deeply embedded in
                            an existing social organization, and failure to respect the general
                            procedures of that organization will jeopardize the process of
                            improvement. Badger (2000) suggests that, at least superficially, action
                            research seems to pose few ethical dilemmas because it is based on a
                            philosophy of collaboration for the mutual benefit of researchers and
                            participants. Lathlean (1994, cited in Badger, 2000) contrasts action
                            research with the 'smash and grab' approach of both
                            positivist and interpretative traditions, who complete their study and
                            leave their subjects to 'clear up the mess'. Taking note
                            of ethical principles for action research, however, still involves the
                            usual array of requirements for negotiated access, confidentiality and
                            allowing participants the right to withdraw.



Ethics in Action Research



Negotiating Access
Access needs to be negotiated at various levels: within organizations
                                or communities, with individuals and with parents, guardians or
                                supervisors.

Organizations And Communities
You will probably first need to negotiate access to organizations
                                    or communities or to management in your own organization. After
                                    establishing contact, you will need to define your aims and
                                    objectives and get their agreement, in writing, to your research
                                    project. Be honest about what you are about to do, and if your
                                    objectives change, notify the sponsors immediately. Also note
                                    the warning of Coghlan and Brannick (2010) that doing action
                                    research in your own organization is a political act which might
                                    even be construed by some as subversive.


Participants
Make it clear that they are not 'subjects' but
                                    participants and co-researchers. You are studying yourself in
                                    relation to them or their relationship to others. Either way,
                                    they are central to your research. However, while most
                                    commentators on action research tend to emphasize the democratic
                                    and inclusive nature of the action research process, Avison et
                                    al. (2001) argue that either practitioners or researchers have
                                    the upper hand in most aspects of control and authority. Their
                                    relationship, then, is not balanced in a democratic sense, so
                                    opening up the potential for the abuse of power, influence and
                                    authority.


Parents, Guardians Or Supervisors
Particularly if you are dealing with parents or guardians you
                                    need to inform them in writing of your intentions and to elicit
                                    their agreement, also in writing. You need to ensure that your
                                    research does not infringe any equal opportunities or human
                                    rights legislation.

On The Web 13.2
Take a look at the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights
                                        at:

http://www.un.org/en/documents/udhr




UN Declaration of Human
                                                Rights







Maintaining An Ethical Stance

Promise Of Confidentiality
You need to make it clear that you will not reveal any
                                    information that is confidential or sensitive in nature, unless
                                    prior permission is obtained. If organizations and individuals
                                    are content to allow you to use the names of participants then
                                    you can do this, but otherwise use numbers or initials for
                                    identification. You also need to protect the confidentiality of
                                    your data, by getting other participants to check both the data
                                    and your interpretation of them for accuracy and balance. In
                                    some work situations, however, merely describing
                                    someone's role in an organization might immediately
                                    identify an individual. You need to negotiate or warn these
                                    individuals before publishing any report.



Market Research Confidentiality




The Right To Withdraw
Research participants must know that they can withdraw from the
                                    research at any time, and this right to withdraw must be
                                    respected. Lathlean (1994, cited in Badger, 2000), however,
                                    notes that action research might involve the use of observation
                                    of group activity from which individuals could not withdraw,
                                    especially when the activity is related to collective working
                                    practices.


Communication
Keep participants informed about the objectives of the project
                                    and how it is progressing. One idea is to produce project
                                    reports, but limit the distribution of these only to the
                                    relevant interested parties. Communication should be used as a
                                    means of eliciting and encouraging suggestions and
                                    participation.


Maintaining Good Faith
Never take anything for granted and try to anticipate areas where
                                    possible misunderstandings could arise. Check with people to see
                                    if their interpretations are the same as yours. Indeed, Mumford
                                    (2001) suggests that participants should be actively involved in
                                    writing up any final report or recommendations. Participants
                                    should also be consulted as to how descriptions of the action
                                    research project are to be published (Coghlan and Brannick,
                                    2010).
By following these criteria it should be possible to ensure that
                                    the outcomes are objective and truthful in the sense that the
                                    understanding of meaning is directed towards the achievement of
                                    a possible consensus among actors (Winter, 1996). However, as
                                    Tickle (2001) points out, action researchers often face a
                                    practical dilemma between keeping all participants informed of
                                    what is happening and maintaining confidentiality.

Activity 13.4
Taking note of the ethical issues outlined above, return to
                                        your plan for your action research project and include a set
                                        of ethical principles that you will need to address. In
                                        doing this, consider any documentation in the organization
                                        that deals with these issues and make yourself aware of any
                                        processes (such as gaining permission for conducting the
                                        research from senior managers or committees). Make a note of
                                        any ethical problems you potentially face in your research
                                        diary, and maintain a reflective record of how you deal with
                                        them.






Some Of The Limitations Of Action Research
While we have identified the effectiveness of the action research
                            approach in particular settings, like any research paradigm, it has its
                            potential drawbacks and limitations. Since action research studies,
                            typically, take longer to complete than other approaches, staff turnover
                            and people leaving the project can be disruptive. Also, while new
                            knowledge generated through studies may lead to practical results, these
                            may not be widely reported in the academic literature - hence,
                            they do not reach the public domain, and their application to other
                            situations may be limited. As we have seen, another problem is that of
                            generalizability. Many action research projects are fairly unique or
                            idiosyncratic in nature. Badger also warns that due to its very
                            contextual focus, action research may only be capable of allowing
                            'tentative generalization' (2000: 202). On the whole,
                            action researchers seem fairly divided as to whether generalization of
                            the results of an action research project is either feasible or, indeed,
                            worthwhile.
An honest evaluation of an actual action research project is presented in
                            the next case study.

Case Study 13.2

The Real World - When An Action Research
                                    Project Goes Wrong
Hardless, Nilsson and Nulden (2005) report on an action learning
                                    project where the outcomes failed to meet expectations. Working
                                    in a large, multinational corporation based in Sweden, the
                                    researchers introduced a new learning intervention, PIER
                                    (Problem-based learning, Interactive multimedia, Experiential
                                    learning and Role playing), as an approach to improving project
                                    management. The PIER approach consists of four activities: (1)
                                    simulated experiences through role-playing with a multimedia
                                    scenario; (2) a period of individual reflection; (3) a seminar
                                    in which the scenario is discussed; (4) ongoing and structured
                                    learning opportunities. The purpose of the programme was to
                                    facilitate experience sharing, discussion and reflection so as
                                    to improve project management practices both at the individual
                                    and the organizational level.
Throughout the project, the researchers maintained a low profile,
                                    and were seen as consultants and as temporary members of the
                                    organization. In order to limit the political pressure on
                                    participants (and the researchers), the HR department which
                                    sponsored the programme were instructed not to be overly
                                    positive or leading about it. In the first phase, seven
                                    experienced project managers were interviewed to generate an
                                    understanding of the organization's culture and to
                                    collect stories and anecdotes which served as a basis for the
                                    scenario 'Global'. The purpose of the story was to
                                    reconstruct, and reflect on, a large project in the organization
                                    that had failed. The second phase consisted of the collaborative
                                    design of the 'Global' scenario. The team
                                    addressing this phase consisted of four researchers and four
                                    members of the HR team. Several experienced project managers
                                    were then engaged to validate the scenario. In the third phase
                                    84 members of the organization participated in the
                                    'Global' scenario; these people were mixed in
                                    terms of functional area in the organization, age, gender,
                                    position and experience. During the scenario activities,
                                    researchers observed interactions between the groups and
                                    afterwards data were gathered through a survey containing four open-ended questions
                                    eliciting participants' impressions about the exercise.
                                    After the seminar used to evaluate the scenario, a longer
                                    19-question survey was issued covering issues such as the
                                    scenario and role plays. Sixty-eight surveys were completed.
                                    This was followed by 30-minute informal interviews with nine
                                    participants, who were encouraged to discuss any theme they felt
                                    was most significant.
Results revealed an interesting paradox in that the programme was
                                    both a success and a failure. On the one hand, the programme was
                                    seen as meaningful by the participants as it helped them to
                                    understand project management issues. However, it failed to
                                    achieve any long-term change in project management behaviours in
                                    the organization. Hardless et al. (2005) explain that this was
                                    due to the participants being recruited too generally across the
                                    organization; they should have recruited those who were most
                                    responsible for project management practices, including top and
                                    middle managers since they wield much of the power. The project
                                    sponsor was the head of HR who funded it. Other departments
                                    should be required to make a financial contribution to the
                                    project so that they have more of a sense of ownership.



Learning from Failure




Source: Adapted from Hardless et al., 2005



Activity 13.5
Consider the reflections on the success and failures of the project
                                described in Case Study 13.2. Do you agree with them? Are there any
                                other recommendations that you would make to strengthen the
                                potential success of an action research project?



Summary
Action research is used to address real world problems, with the
                                    researcher becoming actively involved in the research process as
                                    a change agent.Often, action researchers are professional practitioners who use
                                    action research methodology as a means of researching into and
                                    changing their own professional practice.Action research involves a cyclical process of planning, acting,
                                    observing and reflecting.Methods of data collection include: diaries and logs; documents;
                                    observations; questionnaires; interviews; memory work (writing
                                    stories about events); and the analysis of photographs, audio
                                    and video recordings.The data gathered through action research can be validated
                                    through eliciting the views of critical colleagues, advisers or
                                    mentors or fellow action researchers.Action research must avoid the 'smash and grab'
                                    mentality. The usual ethical principles must be adhered to,
                                    including negotiating access, promises of confidentiality,
                                    guaranteeing the right of participants to withdraw and checking
                                    to see if participants agree with the interpretations emerging
                                    from the research.One of the drawbacks of action research is that it often takes
                                    considerable resources, including time, to complete. Also many
                                    action research projects tend to be fairly unique and difficult
                                    to generalize. However, claims for generalizability may be
                                    strengthened by the replication of findings across a number of
                                    contexts.

Review Questions
Undertaking a project that involves 'action'
                                        (say, the use of interviews) and research (the adoption of a
                                        theoretical stance, data gathering and analysis) does not
                                        necessarily make it an action research project.
                                        Discuss.How valid is the claim that action research is superior to
                                        all other research methodologies when it comes to the
                                        improvement of professional practice?What are the dangers of undertaking an action research
                                        project in an organization which the researcher is a member
                                        of?Examine the assertion that generalizing from an action
                                        research project is neither feasible nor valid.



Further Reading
Coghlan, D. and Brannick, T. (2010) Doing Action Research in Your Own
                                Organization, 3rd edn. London: Sage. Provides practical advice
                            on selecting and framing a project, as well as the advantages and
                            potential pitfalls of researching in your own organization.
Reason, P. and Bradbury, H. (eds) (2001) Handbook of Action Research:
                                Participative Inquiry and Practice. London: Sage. Aptly called a
                            Handbook since this very comprehensive volume contains chapters on the
                            many approaches to action research as well as a wide range of case
                            studies.
Stringer, E.T. (2013) Action Research, 4th edn. Thousand Oaks, CA:
                            Sage. A comprehensive and practical guide for those intending to conduct
                            an action research project.
Whyte, W.F. (ed.) (1991) Participatory Action Research. Newbury
                            Park, CA: Sage. Describes some of the principles of participatory action
                            research, which are then illustrated through a series of case
                            studies.


Journal Resources
Altrichter, H., Kemmis, S., McTaggart, R. and Zuber-Skerritt, O. (2002)
                            'The concept of action research', Learning
                                Organization, 9(3): 125-131. Discusses the lack of
                            accepted definition of action research and argues for continuing
                            flexibility.
Davison, R.M., Martinsons, M.G. and Ou, C.X.J. (2012) 'The roles
                            of theory in canonical action research', MIS Quarterly,
                            36(3): 763-796. Describes how Canonical action research (CAR)
                            addresses real-world problems and aims to improve organizational
                            performance by combining scholarly observations with practical
                            interventions.
French, S. (2009) 'Action research for practising
                            managers', Journal of Management Development, 28(3):
                            187-204. Discusses the various definitions of AR and also offers
                            a model for how an AR business research project can be conducted.



Suggested Answers For Activity 13.1
Much of the planning and implementation for the training and
                            communication seems to have been conducted by the researchers, with the
                            cooperation of the IS security manager. Employees seem to have been
                            treated as participants rather than collaborators in the project. This
                            might explain some of the initial hostility at the start of the training
                            programme.


Suggested Answers For Activity 13.3
Since the focus of the project is on improvement and change within a
                            professional context, action research would appear to be an ideal
                            methodology. This methodology encourages the active engagement of a
                            range of participants who, through the action research process, come to
                            value their contribution and to 'own' the changes that are
                            made.

Don't forget to visit the companion website at https://study.sagepub.com/grayresearchbusiness for the
                                following resources which support this chapter:


















Part C Data Collection Methods



14 Questionnaires


361


Why use questionnaires?
363

Designing questionnaires
364

Making use of validated
                                        scales
379

Designing Internet and
                                        Web-based questionnaires
383

Piloting questionnaires
385

Maintaining quality: validity
                                        and reliability
388

Questionnaire
                                        administration
389



15 Interviewing


395


Why use interviews?
396

Selecting interview
                                        approaches
398

Designing credible
                                        interviews
401

Interviewing skills
404

Group interviews
415

Using telephone interviews
417

Interviewing in businesses
                                        - words of caution
420

Ethical issues
421



16 Non-participant Observation


427


Approaches to observation
429

Gathering and recording
                                        observational data
431

The process of observation
442

Validity and reliability
                                        issues
446

Presenting observational
                                        data
447

Ethical issues in observational
                                        studies
448



17 Ethnography and Participant Observation


455


The origins of ethnography
457

Guidelines for fieldwork
459

Gathering data: participant
                                        observation and field notes
465

Gathering data:
                                        interviewing
467

Gathering data: digital
                                        media
468

Ethical principles in
                                        ethnography
469

The ethnographic self
472

Feminist ethnography
472

Critical ethnography
474

Sculpting the truth in
                                        ethnographic accounts
476

Recording the miracle
478



18 Focus Groups


483


The uses and benefits of focus
                                        groups
485

The limitations of focus
                                        groups
486

Organizing focus groups
                                        - an overview
487

Focus groups and research
                                        design
500

Special issues in focus group
                                        research
504

Epistemological considerations
                                        and focus groups
505

Ethical considerations and
                                        focus groups
509



19 Unobtrusive Measures


513


Identifying physical
                                        measures
514

Documents
517

New unobtrusive measures:
                                        digital archives
517

Ethical issues in using digital
                                        technology
520



20 Visual Methods


529


Empirical approaches to visual
                                        research
531

Theoretical approaches to
                                        visual research
538

Advantages of using visual data
                                        in organizational research
541

Challenges of using visual
                                        methods
541

Categories of visual
                                        organizational research
542

Types of visual media research
                                        methods
544

Visual ethics in context
548



21 Secondary Data Analysis


555


Advantages and disadvantages of
                                        using secondary data
557

Sources of secondary data
558

Qualitative data sources
566

Secondary data analysis
567

Criteria for selecting a data
                                        set
569

A systems approach to using
                                        secondary data
571

Secondary data
                                        methodologies
572

Secondary data in mixed
                                        methodologies
574

Researching company websites
                                        and social media presence
575

Ethical considerations in
                                        secondary analysis
581















14 Questionnaires

Chapter Introduction

Chapter Outline
Why use questionnaires?Designing questionnairesMaking use of validated scalesDesigning Internet and Web-based questionnairesPiloting questionnairesMaintaining quality: validity and reliabilityQuestionnaire administration


Keywords
Q-sortClassification questionsFilter questionsOpen questionsClosed questionsSequencing questionsResponse categoriesInstructionsWeb-based questionnairesPiloting



Icon Key







Author Video







Chapter Objective
After reading this chapter you will be able to:
Plan and design valid and reliable questionnaires.Describe the processes involved in collecting primary data,
                                        including piloting.Demonstrate the skills for writing appropriate individual
                                        questions and designing questionnaires.Write appropriate documentation to accompany
                                        questionnaires.



As an important data gathering tool, questionnaires are used as part of
                            many of the research methodologies described in Part B of
                            this book. Indeed, it is difficult to imagine a large-scale survey (Chapter 10), for example, without
                            the use of a carefully constructed questionnaire. Similarly, case
                            studies (Chapter 11) can use a combination
                            of data gathering tools, with the use of questionnaires, sometimes in
                            the form of an interview schedule (see Chapter
                                15).



Questionnaires


Questionnaires are research tools through which people are asked to
                            respond to the same set of questions in a pre-determined order. Since
                            questionnaires are one of the most widely used primary data gathering
                            techniques, considerable space will be devoted here to their design and
                            construction. Many people in the business and educational worlds have
                            had experience in data gathering using questionnaires, but fewer are
                            knowledgeable about how difficult it is to construct questionnaires that
                            are valid, reliable and objective. It is thus relatively easy to produce
                            reports and recommendations based upon the most spurious of data.
                            Hopefully, after reading this chapter you will understand many of the
                            pitfalls of questionnaire design so that you can avoid them.
Questionnaires should be used when they fit the objectives of the
                            research. Hence, in a case study that involves seeking the in-depth
                            opinions and perspectives of a small number of respondents, a highly
                            structured questionnaire might be completely inappropriate. Here you
                            might want to construct an interview schedule containing open-ended
                            questions, adopting a descriptive approach. But where the audience is
                            relatively large, and where standardized questions are needed, the
                            questionnaire is ideal, and will allow, if this is required, an
                            analytical approach exploring relationships between variables. For
                            example, a company might wish to measure the impact of a brand awareness
                            campaign on consumer choice. Hence, the questionnaire might seek details
                            on consumer demographics such as age, gender, income level, dwelling
                            type and geographical location, as well as eliciting data on brand
                            awareness and the kinds of lifestyle products these consumers want. Of
                            course, in many cases questionnaires will be only one tool used in the
                            general research effort. The research design may plan for a wide-scale
                            survey using questionnaires, to be followed up by in-depth structured
                            interviews or observations with a target sample identified to be of
                            interest by the survey. For example, following the survey mentioned
                            above, the company might conduct a series of focus groups with consumers
                            to gain insights into their future lifestyle and consumption
                            intentions.



Brand Awareness Questionnaires


In this chapter we will explore some of the essential principles in
                            questionnaire design, including how to write appropriate questions,
                            whether to use open or closed questions, how to sequence
                            questions and questionnaire layout. We also look at some of the more
                            specific principles behind
                            designing Web or Internet questionnaires, and how questionnaires of any
                            kind should be administered.


Why Use Questionnaires?
Questionnaires are perhaps one of the most popular data gathering tools,
                            probably because they are thought by many researchers to be easy to
                            design. This belief, as we shall see, is not necessarily supported by
                            the evidence. As Gillham (2007) points out, the popularity of
                            questionnaires is also probably based on some of their inherent
                            advantages. For example:
They are low cost in terms of both time and money. In contrast
                                    to, say, interviews, questionnaires can be sent to hundreds or
                                    even thousands of respondents at relatively little cost.The inflow of data is quick and from many people.Respondents can complete the questionnaire at a time and place
                                    that suits them. Contrast this with interviews, when it can be
                                    difficult to find convenient times to meet the respondent.Data analysis of closed questions is relatively simple, and
                                    questions can be coded quickly.Respondents' anonymity can be assured. But Gillham (2007)
                                    rightly notes that in small-scale surveys, this can be largely
                                    nominal in character - it may not be difficult for the
                                    researcher to recognize the responses of individuals. But real
                                    anonymity can also be double-edged. If you do not know who has
                                    not responded, to whom do you send reminders?There is a lack of interviewer bias. There is evidence that
                                    different interviewers get different answers - because of
                                    the way in which they place different emphasis on individual
                                    words in questions and because of the different probes
                                    (additional questions) that they follow up with.
Of course, not surprisingly, using questionnaires also has its drawbacks.
                            Unless we can make completing the questionnaire intrinsically rewarding,
                            the response rate can be depressingly low. This is even more of a danger
                            if questionnaires are too long. Gillham (2007) advises that
                            questionnaires should be limited in length to four to six pages,
                            otherwise the return rate may be adversely affected. Few people greet
                            receiving a questionnaire with unbounded enthusiasm, particularly long
                            ones. Most people find verbal communication easier than using the
                            written word, yet questionnaires demand a certain level of literacy. But
                            there is no opportunity to ask questions. For example, a respondent
                            might tick 'Strongly agree' to the statement:
                            'Shared values are important to my organization'. If we
                            were able to follow up this response in an interview, we might ask what
                            these values are, and how they actually manifest themselves in practice.
                            In questionnaires, respondents might also give flippant, inaccurate or
                            misleading answers, but the researcher is not in a position to detect
                            this. In contrast, the face-to-face interview might reveal underlying
                            problems through observing body language or the verbal tones of the
                            respondent.



Good and Bad Surveys



Activity 14.1
Take a questionnaire that you have designed, preferably quite
                                recently. Was it less than six sides in length? Was it well designed
                                and easy for respondents to complete? Were the answers, in your
                                view, honestly given? Overall, how successful was the questionnaire
                                in eliciting the required data and how could you explain its success
                                or failure?




Designing Questionnaires
Questionnaires reflect the designer's view of the world, no matter
                            how objective a researcher tries to be. This is true not only for the
                            design of individual questions, but often about the very choice of
                            research subject. Furthermore, what we choose not to ask about,
                            may just as easily reflect our world view as what we include in the
                            questionnaire. It is important, then, that, as a researcher, you are
                            aware of this and try, as far as possible, to be objective. Indeed, it
                            is the values, perceptions and interests of the respondent that you
                            should be attempting to capture, and the questionnaire should reflect
                            this as much as possible. In this section, we will look at the design of
                            individual questions, including open and closed questions, the
                            sequencing of questions and questionnaire layout.



Guide to Questionnaires



Writing Individual Questions
Piloting a questionnaire usually helps to eliminate or at least
                                reduce questions that are likely to mislead. So, getting five or six
                                people, who are similar in key characteristics to the target
                                audience, to read the questions can often identify errors,
                                weaknesses or ambiguities. This is because people may read and
                                interpret questions in quite distinct ways. It is naïve to
                                believe that standardized questions will always receive
                                standardized, rational responses. Nevertheless, it helps if
                                questions are phrased in ways that are clear, concise and
                                unambiguous (to everyone in the sample), and free from jargon and
                                abbreviations. While the overall content, style and structure of the
                                questionnaire must satisfy the respondent, each individual question
                                must stand on its own merits. Arksey and Knight (1999) provide a
                                useful list of what to avoid when constructing individual
                                questions.



Bad and Good Questions


Prejudicial language: Try to avoid language that is
                                prejudicial or contains sexist, disablist or racist stereotyping. A
                                question that annoys, irritates or insults a respondent may affect
                                the way they respond to questions that follow - if they
                                decide to complete them at all! For example, the question:
                                'What is your marital status?' may annoy those who
                                live with partners or who are not living in a heterosexual
                                relationship (assuming that the society allows only heterosexual
                                marriages).
Imprecision: Avoid vague phrases such as
                                'average', 'regularly' and 'a
                                great deal' since they are likely to be interpreted in
                                different ways by different respondents. For example, one person
                                might feel that going to the gym once a week is
                                'often', while another who goes three times a week
                                construes this as 'regularly'.
Leading questions: These suggest a possible answer and hence
                                promote bias. Questions such as 'Why do you think the
                                government has been successful in the past three years?' are
                                leading because they are making an assumption with which the
                                respondent may not necessarily agree.
Double questions: These should be avoided because they are
                                impossible to answer. For example, if the question: 'Do you
                                like chocolate and strawberry ice-cream?' receives a reply of
                                'Yes' you would be unclear as to whether this relates
                                to both of the ice-cream flavours or just one of them.
Assumptive questions: Avoid questions that make assumptions
                                about people's beliefs or behaviours. For example,
                                'How often do you drink alcohol?' makes an assumption
                                about the respondent's drinking habits which may be entirely
                                false (and even hurtful - see prejudicial language,
                                above).
Hypothetical questions: Try to avoid hypothetical questions
                                such as: 'Suppose you were asked to ...' since
                                these have been shown to be poor predictors of people's
                                actual subsequent behaviour. A useful check on whether the content and structure of
                                a question is right is to ask whether a respondent would understand
                                why the question was being asked within the overall context of the
                                study. Arksey and Knight (1999) also argue that such questions can
                                generate insightful data when people have some direct knowledge or
                                experience of the subject being discussed.
Knowledge: Make sure that the group that has been targeted to
                                answer the questions has the knowledge actually to do so. Sometimes
                                it may be necessary to provide people with some background
                                information if the subject is quite technical - for example,
                                questions on IT systems, or mobile phone technology.
Memory recall: People may have difficulty recalling what has
                                occurred even quite recently. If, say, you are constructing some
                                questions around recent newsworthy events, then it would be
                                appropriate to present respondents with a list of such events before
                                asking them questions about them.
In determining how to ask individual questions consider the
                                following:
Even if the question can be understood (in the literal
                                        sense), can the researcher's intentions be inferred?
                                        So, if the researcher asks: 'What do you
                                        like?' is it possible to understand what kind of
                                        beliefs or attitudes the study is focusing on?Can the question be misunderstood? Does it contain difficult
                                        or unclear phraseology?Is the question misleading because of unstated assumptions
                                        or unseen implications?Is the wording biased? Is it emotionally loaded or slanted
                                        towards a particular kind of answer?Is the question wording likely to be objectionable to the
                                        respondent in any way?Can the question be asked in a more direct or a more
                                        indirect form?Are double questions avoided?Are leading questions avoided?Is attention paid to detail - e.g. overlapping
                                        categories such as 'age 30-35,
                                        35-40'Do questions avoid taxing respondents' memories?Can the questions be shortened?Are categories such as 'Don't Know' and
                                        'Not Applicable' provided?Will the words used have the same meaning for all
                                        respondents, regardless of nationality, language, culture,
                                        etc.?Is the frame of reference clear - e.g. if asking how
                                        often, is the range of possible responses made obvious?Do questions artificially create opinions on subjects where
                                        respondents really do not have any?Is personal wording preferable (e.g. 'How do
                                            you feel?), or impersonal (e.g. 'How do
                                        you think people feel?'). The first is a measure of
                                        attitudes, the second a measure of respondents'
                                        perceptions of other people's attitudes.Finally, just to emphasize the importance of question
                                        wording, consider the study by Schuman and Presser (1981).
                                        When asked what they consider 'the most important
                                        thing for children, to prepare them for life', 61 per
                                        cent chose the alternative 'to think for
                                            themselves', when this was offered to them
                                        from a list. However, when no list was provided, only 4.6
                                        per cent volunteered this answer. Lists then, may remind
                                        respondents of material they might not otherwise have
                                        considered and give a clear indication of what the
                                        researcher is interested in. But lists may also omit items
                                        that, otherwise, the respondent would have reported (Kenett,
                                        2006).



Top Tip: Designing Questionnaires




Top Tip 14.1
How do you construct a comprehensive list that includes all
                                        the necessary concepts? A thorough review of the relevant
                                        literature and previous studies is a good starting point.
                                        But to ensure your list of concepts is complete, you could
                                        also run a focus group (see Chapter 18) in which you could elicit comments
                                        (validation) of your concepts. Using a focus group
                                        comprising subject matter experts will also help in the
                                        identification of concepts that are missing.





Developing Questions To Measure A Construct
As indicated above, the development of individual questions is a
                                skilful process. However, as we shall see later, to increase
                                reliability we normally have to use more than one question to
                                measure a construct accurately. This might be relatively
                                straightforward when eliciting customers' views on the
                                quality of a physical entity such as a can of baked beans. Here we
                                can ask questions about the aesthetic design of the can, the taste
                                and texture of the beans and their 'value for money'.
                                But what about more service-related subjects such as service
                                efficiency, staff friendliness, store cleanliness, etc.? How do we
                                go about measuring a construct when even the very definition of the
                                construct itself may be vague or even unknown to us? Ekinci and
                                Riley (1999) suggest that using the Q-sort methodology can be of
                                considerable assistance here. The Q-sort approach falls into three
                                stages:
Stage 1: Create construct definitions. It is important that
                                        these should have a high degree of face validity so they
                                        need to be derived from previous studies or from expert
                                        opinion.Stage 2: Create sets of statements that are designed to
                                        represent the definition.Stage 3: Test the statements against the definitions by
                                        getting participants to combine the statements with the
                                        definitions on a 'free sort' basis, with the
                                        option 'don't know' or 'no
                                        opinion'.

Case Study 14.1

Applying The Q-Sort Methodology
A hotel chain wishes to conduct a customer survey on the
                                        quality of staff behaviour and attitudes to customers and
                                        the reliability of services. Using some well-known articles
                                        in the field of hospitality management, definitions of
                                        appropriate staff behaviour and attitudes were developed,
                                        followed by a definition for reliability of hotel services.
                                        Each definition was written onto a card - but without
                                        any title. For example, a card contained a definition of
                                        reliability but the card did not have
                                        'Reliability' as a title. This card read:
                                            It is the hotel's regularity and consistency
                                            in performing services which inspires confidence and
                                            trust to customers. In operational terms this means
                                            keeping promises, trustworthiness in transaction and
                                            efficiency of recovery process if anything goes
                                            wrong. Another card was created for the response
                                        'don't know'. Five positive and five
                                        negative statements were then developed for each of the two
                                        categories, making 20 statements in all.



Introduction to Q Methodology


Thirty participants took part in Stage 3 of the process. All
                                        the cards were shuffled to create a random order and each
                                        participant was then asked to place the statement cards
                                        against one of the two definition cards or the
                                        'don't know' option. The results of
                                        each participant's choice were noted. From these data
                                        it was possible to calculate what proportion of respondents
                                        agreed that a statement described the definition.
In interpreting the results, a definition is only deemed to
                                        be legitimate if at least two statements are accepted as
                                        describing it. Secondly, for a statement to be legitimate,
                                        at least 70 per cent of the sample must allocate it to the
                                        same definition. Ideally, a minimum of four to six
                                        statements should be obtained for each definition
                                        (construct) in order to obtain internal consistency for the
                                        scale. Table 14.1 illustrates
                                        the results for each statement. We can see that for the
                                        construct 'Staff behaviour and attitude' there
                                        are six statements that yield a recognition rate of about 70
                                        per cent. For the reliability construct three statements are
                                        deemed satisfactory. Hence, the Q-sort process has helped in
                                        the development of nine statements that are deemed adequate
                                        for measuring two constructs used to measure customer
                                        satisfaction within the hotel industry.



Source: Adapted from
                                            Ekinci and Riley, 1999




Activity 14.2
Compare Q-sort with running a focus group to validate questions
                                    you have constructed yourself. Which approach do you think
                                    produces the most valid instrument?



Using Classification Questions
One type of question often required by a survey is the classification
                                question, dealing with, for example, the name, sex, age, status,
                                etc. of the respondent. These are important for providing the basis
                                for analysing associations between variables (for example, a
                                respondent's gender and attitude towards sexual harassment
                                issues in the workplace). These questions should be introduced by a gentle 'It will
                                help us in further analysis if you would tell us a little about
                                yourself'. Take care not to run the risk of alienating the
                                respondent by prying for information that is not, subsequently,
                                needed. For example, is it necessary to know the respondent's
                                exact age, or would a response within a range of ages suffice?
                                People may also be reluctant to reveal details of their salary,
                                particularly to a stranger within their own organization. It may be
                                easier to obtain their response to a question on job grade that may
                                provide an indirect indication of salary.

Top Tip 14.2
Response rates will be maximized if the curiosity and interest of
                                    respondents is 'grabbed' on the first page of the
                                    questionnaire. Hence, it is usually best to place the important,
                                    but less than exciting, classification questions at the end of
                                    the questionnaire. People may be pleased to complete them
                                    because they have already invested time in responding to the
                                    questionnaire's main themes.


Activity 14.3
Anyone can write a questionnaire? Evaluate the questions in the
                                    short questionnaire shown in Figure 14.1.
Figure
                                            14.1 Example questionnaire
Suggested answers are provided at the end of the chapter.



Drafting The Question Content
Clearly, in writing questions issues such as validity need to be
                                borne in mind. Hence, the content of the questionnaire needs to
                                cover the research issues that have been specified. But Foddy (1993)
                                points out that this is by no means a simple matter. A series of
                                precise steps must be followed:
The researcher has to be clear about the information
                                        required and encode this accurately into a question.The respondent must interpret the question in a way that the
                                        researcher intended.The respondent must construct an answer that contains
                                        information that the researcher has requested.The researcher must interpret the answer as the respondent
                                        had intended it to be interpreted.



Layout and Wording


Unfortunately, as Foddy (1993) comments, there is ample opportunity
                                for the process to break down at any stage, with resulting threats
                                to validity. Even if the respondent understands the question, there
                                also needs to be some confidence that he or she will know the
                                answer, and that they will be willing to provide it. For example, in
                                understanding factory security, a security guard might have some
                                interesting stories about bungled break-ins, but would probably have
                                less knowledge about the company's overarching security
                                strategy. In deliberating about question content ask yourself the
                                following questions:
Is the question necessary? Just how will it be useful?Are several questions needed on the subject matter of this
                                        question?Do respondents have the information necessary to answer the
                                            question?Does the question need to be more concrete, specific and
                                        closely related to the respondent's personal
                                        experience?Is the question content sufficiently general and free from
                                        spurious concreteness and specificity?Is the question content biased and loaded in one direction,
                                        without accompanying questions to balance the emphasis?Will the respondents give the information that is asked
                                        for?
Cannell (1985) deals with the issue of how to ask difficult or
                                embarrassing questions. Referring to the work of Barton, he
                                illustrates a number of ways in which the cooperation of respondents
                                can be maintained. The possible approaches are illustrated in Table 14.2, in which, by means
                                of illustration, a set of hypothetical questions are asked about
                                whether a respondent sabotaged the organization's
                                intranet.


Source: Adapted from Cannell,
                                    1985



Drafting The Answer
Decide on how you want people to respond and stick with it. So, if
                                you require respondents to tick their responses, get them to
                                do this throughout the questionnaire, rather than to also
                                incorporate underlining and circling. In general,
                                people seem to be used to box-ticking. The golden rule is that it
                                should be absolutely clear how the respondent is to complete the
                                questionnaire.


Types Of Question
With the above warnings in mind, we can now move on to look at the
                                types of questions that can be posed in a questionnaire. Oppenheim
                                (1992) suggests that a funnel approach can often be used, whereby
                                the questionnaire starts off with a broad set of questions and then
                                progressively narrows down the questions to target specific areas.
                                This is sometimes achieved by filter questions that are
                                designed to exclude some respondents. So, for example, in a survey
                                of employee commuting experiences, a question might be posed: Have
                                you ever had difficulty in
                                getting to work? If the answer is 'Yes', then more
                                market research questions follow; if the answer is
                                'No' then the respondent is routed to a later part of
                                the questionnaire on different transport issues. The main body of
                                the questionnaire, however, will comprise either open or closed
                                questions. It should be noted that different formats can be used for
                                questions. Using a variety of such formats adds interest and can
                                even help increase questionnaire response rates. Let us look at some
                                now.

Open Questions
Open questions have no definitive response and contain answers
                                    that are recorded in full. Hence, the questionnaire must be
                                    designed in such a way that respondents are able to provide such
                                    a response without the restriction of lack of space. Open
                                    questions often begin with words such as 'How',
                                    'Why', 'What', etc.



Open Questions


The advantage of open questions is the potential for richness of
                                    responses, some of which may not have been anticipated by the
                                    researchers. But the downside of open questions is that while
                                    they are easy to answer they are also harder to analyse. At
                                    first sight much of the information gathered may seem varied and
                                    difficult to categorize. Generally, the solution to this is the
                                    use of coding and the adoption of a coding
                                    frame.
Open questions may lead to interesting or unexpected responses,
                                    so, as we saw in Chapter 10, follow-up
                                    questions called probes or probing questions can be used (if the
                                    questionnaire is administered by an interviewer). These probes
                                    should be general in nature, and should not try to lead the
                                    respondent - for example, 'Could you say a little
                                    more about that accident report?'; 'How do you
                                    feel about those new operational procedures?' Probing
                                    questions can also be used to add some clarity where the
                                    interviewer has not understood a response. Clearly, it is easier
                                    to ask probing questions when conducting a structured interview
                                    than when using a postal questionnaire.



Probing Questions


The simplest form of open question is the specified response, as
                                    illustrated in Question 1.

Question 1: Specified Response Question
What aspects of the company's environmentally friendly
                                        'getting to work' transport policy do you find
                                        the most useful? Please write in.
_____________________________
What aspects of the company's environmentally friendly
                                        'getting to work' transport policy do you find
                                        the least useful? Please write in.
___________________________________
(You could follow up each response with a
                                        'Why?' question.)


Top Tip 14.3
In making use of open questions, give careful consideration
                                        to how you intend to analyse the qualitative data that
                                        results from them. How much qualitative data do you expect
                                        to generate? Do you have the time and resources to handle
                                        it? What approach to qualitative data analysis do you intend
                                        to adopt?




Closed Questions
A closed question is one to which the respondent is offered a set
                                    of pre-designed replies such as 'Yes/No',
                                    'True/False', multiple-choice responses, or is
                                    given the opportunity to choose from a selection of numbers
                                    representing strength of feeling or attitude. In contrast to
                                    open questions, closed questions may restrict the richness of
                                    alternative responses, but are easier to analyse. They also make
                                    it easier to compare the views of one group with another. Closed
                                    questions can be useful in providing respondents with some
                                    structure to their answers. There are a number of approaches to
                                    asking closed questions.



Closed Questions


List questions: These provide the respondent with a list
                                    of responses, any of which they can select. This approach avoids
                                    making the answering of a questionnaire a test of memory. If
                                    list questions are being presented as part of a structured
                                    interview, then prompt cards can be used which list responses
                                    and which are shown to respondents. So, rather than read out
                                    Question 2 and rely on respondents to remember each item
                                    accurately, a card is given to them that reproduces the question
                                    and the possible responses.

Question 2: List Question
What do you think is the most important influence on the
                                        success of the organization in the next two years? Please
                                        tick as many responses as you think accurate.
Changes in government policy affecting the legal regulation
                                        of the market □
The entry of new competitors to the
                                        market □
The impact of the company's current reorganization
                                        strategy □
Foreign exchange rates □



While the list will, clearly, influence the direction of
                                    people's responses, this does not make the approach
                                    invalid. If the questionnaire is concerned with issues that
                                    require recall of information, the list might act as a useful
                                    memory-jogger. But it must be recognized that influencing
                                    respondents in this way may affect their response to any later
                                    open questions.
Category questions: These are designed so that only
                                        one response is possible. For structured interviews
                                    there can be any number of categories, provided a prompt card is
                                    used. But for self-administered questionnaires and telephone
                                    questionnaires Fink (2003) suggests a maximum of no more than
                                    five alternative responses (see Question 3).

Question 3: Category Question
How often in an average week do you use our e-banking
                                        facilities? Please tick one response.
Never □
Once □
2-3 times □
4-5 times □
6 times or more □



Ranking
                                        questions: This requires the respondent to rank
                                    responses in order. With this kind of question it is important
                                    to make the instructions for completing the question clear and
                                    explicit. Be aware that more than seven or eight items in the
                                    list may make it too complex for many respondents to complete.
                                    For face-to-face interviews use will have to be made of prompt
                                    cards and for telephone interviews, items should be limited to
                                    no more than three or four. Note that an 'other'
                                    category is also provided to catch any features not mentioned in
                                    the list (see Question 4).

Question 4: Ranking Question
Please indicate in the boxes provided which features you
                                        believe are the most important when visiting our superstore
                                        (1 indicating the most important, 2 the next most important,
                                        etc.) Please leave blank those features that have no
                                        importance at all.
Ease of car parking □
Low prices □
Friendly staff □
Store loyalty card □
Variety of goods □
Other (please specify) □



Scale questions: Scale or rating questions are used to
                                    measure a variable, and comprise four types of scale:
                                        nominal, ordinal, interval and
                                        ratio. A common type is the Likert scale on which
                                    respondents are asked to indicate how strongly they agree or
                                    disagree with a series of statements (see Question 5). This is
                                    an example of an ordinal scale. Further details of all these
                                    scales are presented in Chapter 23. Most Likert scales use either a four- or
                                    five-point scale (see Figure 14.2).

Question 5: Scale Question (Ordinal)
As a loyal electricity customer we would like to know your
                                        views on the service we provide. Please put one ✓ for
                                        each of the following statements:
Figure
                                                14.2 An ordinal scale



Other forms of scaling
                                    can also be used. The number of response categories, for
                                    example, can be changed. Common formats are
                                    'True/False', 'Yes/No'. Another
                                    approach would be to get respondents to mark a point on a
                                    continuum. Question 6 seeks responses on the quality of helpline
                                    support. Czaja and Blair (2005) warn, however, that this
                                    approach can lead to complexities at the data analysis stage.
                                    For example, do we calculate the average rating; combine parts
                                    of the scale into high, medium and low categories; or use a
                                    threshold that indicates a trend in one direction or
                                    another?

Question 6: Continuum Scale
Please circle one number that reflects your opinion of our
                                        helpline support:
Figure
                                                14.3 A continuum scale



Oppenheim (1992) provides a useful table comparing the advantages
                                    and disadvantages of open and closed questions, reproduced in Table 14.3. Note that often
                                    a questionnaire will use a mixture of both open and closed
                                    questions. Indeed, it is often useful to follow up a closed
                                    question with an invitation to add comments.


Source: Adapted from
                                        Oppenheim, A.N. (1992) Questionnaire Design, Interviewing
                                            and Attitude Measurement, 2nd edn. Continuum, an
                                        imprint of Bloomsbury Publishing Plc.





Sequencing Questions
There should be a logical flow to the sequence of questions, just as
                                you would expect in a formal written text. Such a flow will aid the
                                respondent in understanding individual questions and the overall
                                purpose of the questionnaire. One way of designing the flow of
                                questions is to use a flowchart, as shown in Figure
                                    14.4.
Oppenheim (1992) points out that after reading the accompanying
                                documentation that tells them all about the survey, respondents may
                                be quite eager to answer some of the questions. Therefore, the last
                                sort of question they want to see is what is presented in many
                                surveys - a list of personal questions about age, gender,
                                rank, status (work and marital, etc.). These types of questions
                                should be kept to nearer the end of the questionnaire, and should be
                                preceded by a short statement explaining that this data is needed
                                for making statistical comparisons, so the respondent's help
                                would be appreciated. De Vaus (2002) argues that questions that
                                should come first include those that are easily answered, factual
                                questions and those that are obviously key to the purposes of the
                                survey. Indeed, as Dillman (2007) points out, if the covering
                                documentation has highlighted the key themes of the questionnaire,
                                it is sensible to start with questions that deal directly with the
                                theme. He also suggests that special attention be given to the first
                                question since this will help determine whether the questionnaire is
                                answered or put in the wastepaper bin.
Other useful advice includes going from easy to more difficult
                                questions and from more concrete to abstract. Any sensitive
                                questions should be left until the end. Where possible, a variety of
                                answering formats should be used to provide interest, some
                                additional advice on the sequencing of questions being:
Is the answer to the question likely to be influenced by the
                                        content of preceding questions?Is the question led up to in a natural way? Is it in correct
                                        psychological order?Does the question come too early or too late from the point
                                        of view of arousing interest and receiving sufficient
                                        attention, avoiding resistance, etc.?
Figure 14.4
                                    Flowchart for planning of question sequences


Activity 14.4
Take a questionnaire that has been designed either by yourself or
                                    a colleague (it could be the one you used for Activity 14.1).
                                    Evaluate individual questions. Are they clear, concise and
                                    unambiguous? Are they in grammatical English? Would the intended
                                    audience be able to answer them in terms of their knowledge of
                                    the subject? Are instructions on answering the questions clear?
                                    Is the sequencing of questions appropriate?



Providing Response Categories
Asking a question like 'What employment sector did you work in
                                before your present job?' is asking for trouble. It might
                                both confuse the respondent ('What do they mean -
                                sector?') or the respondent might be uncertain as to whether
                                their classification is acceptable. So, for the question cited, it
                                would be appropriate to provide a list of categories such as:
                                Finance, Retailing, Education, Commerce, Agriculture, Other (please
                                specify), etc. Providing these categories also yields a standardized
                                set of responses that will make the data easier to analyse. Note
                                that we have been careful to provide an 'Other'
                                category, just in case. Some common response category statements are
                                provided by Czaja and Blair (2005) and are summarized in Table 14.4.


Questionnaire Layout
One way of improving the rate of response to a questionnaire is by
                                making it as attractive as possible. Hence, factors such as the
                                general layout, choice of paper, line spacing and answering
                                directions should be considered. So, the way of answering
                                multiple-choice questions should be consistent throughout -
                                for example, ticking boxes or circling numbers. Boxes or lines
                                should be provided for open question responses. It is best to avoid
                                making the questionnaire too cramped as this can be off-putting to
                                respondents.


Source: Adapted from Czaja and
                                    Blair, 2005

Dillman (2007) warns
                                against unconventional designs, such as printing on both sides of
                                paper with a staple to bind the pages together, or using landscape
                                (horizontal) orientation. He argues strongly for a booklet format
                                which, he says, is understood automatically by respondents. With
                                this format, people start on page 1 and turn over to page 2 which is
                                to the left of page 3. If the budget is tight, then it is legitimate
                                to print on one side only and to staple sheets together. Carroll
                                (1994) suggests that other typographical issues require careful
                                consideration such as:
Putting boxes around groups of questions.Shading multiple-choice questions.Selecting clean, clear typefaces.Using lines to take the respondent's eye from
                                        question to response.Numbering all questions and sections.
Dillman (2007) cautions that questions should not be written on the
                                cover page, which should contain an interesting title or graphic to
                                attract the attention of the reader. Below the illustration the
                                purpose of the questionnaire should be outlined, and a message
                                provided that explains the value of the study and states that the
                                opinions of the respondent are important. If the questionnaire is
                                part of a study linked to an organization or part of an academic
                                programme, then the name and contact details of the organization
                                should go at the base of the front page. Figure
                                    14.5 provides an example from an online questionnaire that
                                was part of an actual study.


Writing A Set Of Instructions
Most questionnaires will also contain, probably at the start, a set
                                of instructions for completing them. This is important, and it
                                should not be assumed that respondents will all know that they
                                should, say, tick only one choice for each question. Unless
                                instructions are made absolutely specific, it is almost certain that
                                questionnaires will be returned completed incorrectly resulting in a
                                loss of data. Cohen and Manion (2011) even suggest that with postal
                                questionnaires it is advisable to repeat the instructions. Carroll
                                (1994) supports this idea, arguing that providing additional
                                instructions for groups of questions will help the response
                                rate.
One of the problems with instructions is that they are either not
                                read or are misread. Dillman (2007) suggests that respondents can be
                                helped by careful use of typography and design. De Vaus (2002)
                                suggests that, to improve the flow of a questionnaire, the following
                                instructions should be considered:
General instructions, dealing with the purpose of the
                                        questionnaire, assurances of confidentiality, how and when
                                        to return the questionnaire (for example see Figure 14.5).Section introductions when the questionnaire is divided into
                                        subsections.Question instructions (e.g. tick only one response).'Go to' instructions.
Dillman (2007) refers to these 'go to' instructions as
                                'skip instructions' and argues that they are important
                                because they avoid respondents reading or completing questions that
                                do not apply to them. But in self-administered questionnaires the
                                problem is getting people to read the skip instructions correctly.
                                    Figure 14.6 illustrates a
                                poorly constructed skip question and an improved version. Note that
                                in the improved version, the 'No' response is
                                presented first and respondents re-routed if necessary. Instructions
                                are in bold and a pointed finger used for emphasis.
Figure 14.5
                                    Example of a questionnaire cover pageSource: Adapted from Dillman,
                                    2007
Figure 14.6
                                    Uses of typography and emphasis to aid the functionality of skip
                                    instructionsSource: Adapted from Dillman,
                                    2007
Similarly, the use of
                                spacing can help to improve the understanding of a question, as
                                illustrated in Figure 14.7. See how a quite
                                densely packed question is laid out so that different elements are
                                separated.
Figure 14.7
                                    The uses of spacing to help identify groups of elements

Top Tip 14.4
Researchers who are new to questionnaire design tend to give
                                    little thought to helping respondents in completing the
                                    questionnaire. Re-read your questionnaire. Is it clear how a
                                    respondent should complete it? If, say, you want just one
                                    response from a list of five choices, have you clearly stated
                                    this? Ask for feedback on the quality of instructions at the
                                    piloting stage.




Making Use Of Validated Scales
As discussed earlier in this chapter, measurement instruments (such as
                            questionnaires) contain collections of items (individual questions) that
                            together make up a scale.We develop a scale when we seek to measure a
                            phenomenon that we believe to exist, but which we cannot assess directly
                            (DeVellis, 2012). For example, theory suggests that some people suffer
                            from work-related stress. Sometimes we can infer this from their
                            behaviour, but we may not have access to this data, or behaviour may not
                            match the underlying construct (they may become adept at hiding their
                            stress). It may therefore be more useful to construct a validated
                            scale.
So far we have explored how you can develop your own scales. However, if
                            you have ever done this, you will know how difficult the process can be.
                            At the piloting stage, for example, you may notice how often respondents
                            find your questions confusing or misleading. Rather than invent your own set of items in a
                            measurement scale, a much better approach is to make use of existing
                            scales. There are several reasons for this:
Measurement scales are usually developed by experienced
                                    researchers who have the skills and experience to do this.Scales that are reported in the academic literature (such as
                                    journal articles) have been validated and their internal
                                    consistency measured (by reporting the Cronbach alpha of the
                                    scale).



Organizational Research Scales


But where are these scales? As indicated above, they are often discussed
                            in the academic literature. So, say, for example, you were conducting
                            some research on the relationship between corporate entrepreneurship and
                            strategic management. A quick Google search would lead you to an article
                            in the Strategic Management Journal by Barringer and Bluedorn
                            (1999). Taking the corporate entrepreneurship scale, the authors present
                            four questions containing a total of 9 items (questions). They quote the
                            Cronbach alpha for their scale at 0.87 (clearly greater than 0.7 the
                            usually accepted minimum). They also highlight the original source of
                            some of these items in previous studies. This is typical of scale
                            development. Scholars take existing scales, modify and improve on them
                            (or at least try to).
If you take existing scales, would you be guilty of plagiarism? The
                            answer is definitely 'No', as long as you make reference
                            to the source of the scale, in the above case this is Barringer and
                            Bluedorn (1999). So, in the Methodology section of a piece of your
                            academic writing, usually in a sub-section entitled Instrument
                                development, you would:
Make clear, the construct(s) you are intending to measure (for
                                    example, corporate entrepreneurship).Discuss potential scales from the literature (usually academic
                                    journals), pointing out the strengths and weaknesses of various
                                    scales (if there are more than one).Select the scale that is to be used, and provide a brief
                                    description of how and why it was originally developed (and by
                                    whom). Make reference to its internal consistency from the
                                    previous studies from which it was developed.Provide the complete scale in an Appendix, ensuring that it is
                                    reproduced with total accuracy, word for word.
It is also helpful to present a table similar to Table
                                14.5 that provides a clear summary of the constructs being
                            measured in relation to the study's research questions (clearly
                            the two must be linked to ensure validity). A statement is provided
                            indicating that data collection methods include a survey making use of a
                            questionnaire. Then the source of the survey scales is presented, as are
                            an indication of where these scales can be found in the research
                            documentation (in an Appendix). Some studies may also include additional
                            data collection methods. In Table
                                14.5 the survey is supplemented with interviews using a
                            researcher-developed interview schedule. Since it is developed by the
                            researchers themselves, its source is indicated as 'This
                            study'. If corporate entrepreneurship and strategic management
                            are the only constructs to be measured in the survey, then both sets of
                            scales would be incorporated into the forthcoming questionnaire, plus a
                            suitable set of instructions for its completion and demographic data
                            which the respondents include about themselves (as discussed
                            earlier).





Case Study 14.2

Using Validated Scales
The author conducted some collaborative research on the concept
                                    of professional identity which addressed the following research
                                    questions:



Case Studies of Research:
                                            Professional Identity


RQ1: Is coaching a distinct occupation, or a task, performed
                                    within a portfolio of human resource or other roles?
RQ2: To what extent do coaches identify with coaching as a
                                    profession? What variables (such as experience as a coach,
                                    membership of one or more coaching association, coaching
                                    accreditation, being an internal or external coach) determine
                                    this identification?
RQ3: How is a professional identity (or multiple identities)
                                    created and maintained amongst coaches? In making their career
                                    transition, what continuities and tensions do coaches experience
                                    between their old identities and their new emerging sense of
                                    self?
The dependent variable here is professional identity. It was
                                    decided to measure this construct both quantitatively through a
                                    global survey and also qualitatively through in-depth
                                    interviews. Here, we will focus only on the quantitative scales.
                                    A thorough review of the professional identity literature
                                    identified seven potential scales, with Mael and
                                    Ashforth's (1992) six-item scale adopted. These six items
                                    are provided by Mael and Ashforth (1992) based on an unpublished
                                    thesis (Mael, 1988) (Cronbach alpha .86), and referenced in Mael
                                    and Ashforth (1995) in Personnel Psychology as:
When someone criticizes [x], it feels like a personal
                                            insult.I am very interested in what others think about
                                            [x].When I talk about [x], I usually say 'we'
                                            rather than 'they'.The [x]'s successes are my successes.When someone praises [x], it feels like a personal
                                            compliment.If a story in the media criticized [x] I would feel
                                            embarrassed.
For [x] we added 'coaching' to adapt the scale to
                                    our own study. So, the scale became as shown in Figure 14.8.
In addition, an item was adapted from Bergami and Bagozzi (2000)
                                    who developed their identity scale when researching a French
                                    corporation. This single question comprised eight pairs of
                                    circles from 'far apart' (no overlap) to
                                    increasing degrees to complete overlap between the identities of
                                    the corporation and the individual. We felt that the scale was
                                    interesting and had strong face validity for our own study. We
                                    modified the text at the top of the figure, so the scale became
                                    as shown in Figure 14.9.
Figure
                                            14.8 Mael and Ashforth's (1992) (modified)
                                        six-item scale measuring organizational identification
Figure
                                            14.9 Bergami and Bagozzi's (2000)
                                        (modified) visual direct scale measuring identity
Affective commitment to
                                    coaching was measured using Allen and Meyer's (1990)
                                    eight-item short scale, 'coaching profession'
                                    again being substituted for an organization's name.
                                    Internal consistency was again good (α = .805).
Figure
                                            14.10 Allen and Meyer's (1999) (modified)
                                        eight-item scale measuring organizational affective
                                        commitment. Reprinted by permission of John Wiley &
                                        Sons



Activity 14.5
As well as finding appropriate scales in academic journals, take a
                                look at this additional source:
Field, D.L. (2002) Taking the Measurement of Work: A Guide to
                                    Validated Scales for Organisational Research and Diagnosis.
                                Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage. This excellent source provides a wealth of
                                scales on constructs such as: job satisfaction, organizational
                                commitment, job characteristics (e.g., job overload, empowerment),
                                job stress, job roles, organizational justice and workplace
                                behaviours.



Designing Internet And Web-Based Questionnaires
As we saw in Chapter 10, the advent of the
                            Internet and World Wide Web has transformed the way in which many
                            surveys are conducted. Given that many organizations, particularly
                            larger ones, have good
                            connections to the Internet, the use of online surveys is especially
                            advantageous in terms of convenience and access to large samples and
                            populations.



Email Survey Writing



Email Questionnaires
Email questionnaires (often used as part of surveys) are relatively
                                easy to compose but offer fewer opportunities to provide visual
                                stimulation or interactivity. It is difficult, for example, to use
                                the kind of skip patterns discussed earlier. On the whole, the
                                principles of email questionnaire design are very similar to many of
                                those concerned with paper-based design. Dillman (2007) suggests the
                                following strategies:
Use multiple contacts (e.g. preliminary email, questionnaire
                                        email, 'thank-you' email, etc.)Personalize all email contacts, do not send them via a
                                        listserv. One reason for this is that a response would be
                                        sent to all others on the list - so much for
                                        confidentiality!Keep the covering (introductory) text brief, avoiding the
                                        need for the respondent to scroll down the page.Suggest alternative ways to respond, such as printing out
                                        the questionnaire and completing it by hand. Some
                                        respondents may feel insecure about email responses, which
                                        can always be checked by an employer.Limit column width to 70 characters to decrease the
                                        likelihood of text wrapping around to the next line.Start with an easy but interesting question.Provide instructions on completing questions, such as
                                        putting an X inside the brackets.In the case of non-response, include a replacement
                                        questionnaire with the reminder message.


Web-Based Questionnaires
Web-based questionnaires offer many facilities for questionnaire
                                design that are not available in traditional, paper-based formats,
                                such as the use of drop-down menus, pop-up instruction boxes and
                                sophisticated skip patterns. They can track response processes such
                                as the order in which respondents proceed through the questionnaire,
                                and whether they viewed a question but chose not to answer it. One
                                of the more popular Web-based survey tools, SurveyMonkey, for
                                example, offers the following functionality:
A range of question types (including multiple choice, rating
                                        scales, drop-down menus).Question forcing (requiring the respondent to answer a
                                        question before they can proceed). But note that these may
                                        sometimes frustrate or even anger respondents (Albaum,
                                        Wiley, Roster and Smith, 2011).Choices of colour, size and style of font.Tracking facilities to see who responds and follow-up
                                        messages to those who do not.Data downloaded into either spreadsheet or database format
                                        ready for analysis.

On The Web 14.1
Go to the SurveyMonkey website at:

http://www.surveymonkey.com/

To understand more about how the software works, take a look at
                                    one of the video tutorials.
Another online survey tool can be found at:

http://www.qualtrics.com




However, the very
                                flexibility of the Web makes the opportunities for making design
                                errors all the greater, which may, in turn, affect response rates.
                                It is extremely easy to get 'lost' in a website, at
                                which point many users exit the site quickly. Respondents must also
                                be able to provide information in a way that reflects their genuine
                                views, including 'don't know' responses (Market
                                Research Society, 2010). Hence, following some simple design
                                instructions is all the more important. Dillman (2007) makes a
                                number of recommendations:
Introduce the Web questionnaire with a welcome screen that
                                        is motivational, that emphasizes the ease of responding, and
                                        shows how to proceed.Provide a login to limit access to the site to the selected
                                        sample.Choose a first question that is easy and stimulating to
                                        answer.Present questions in a similar format to that used in a
                                        conventional questionnaire.Use colour appropriately and not just for the sake of
                                        it.Unless you are sure that all respondents have the same
                                        screen configuration, test the Web pages on different screen
                                        resolutions and Web browsers to ensure that the appearance
                                        is always the same.Use drop-down boxes sparingly and identify each with a
                                        'click here' instruction.
All questionnaires, whether paper-based, email or Web-based, need
                                careful piloting (see next
                                    section) before dissemination to a wider audience. In the
                                case of Web-based questionnaires, it is best if a paper-based
                                version is piloted first to produce a final version ready for
                                putting online. But once online this Internet version should also be
                                piloted to see if respondents find it easy to use. Note that while
                                your questionnaire may appear neat and tidy on your own screen,
                                words may appear out of place on some users' screens if they
                                are using a Web browser different to your own. Piloting using a
                                variety of Web browsers is therefore a sensible step.

On The Web 14.2
Take a look at the following website, which contains a wide
                                    variety of Web-based questionnaires:

http://www.accesscable.net/~infopoll/Library.htm

Now find examples of:
Accompanying documentation, including information
                                            letters.Different question formats (open/closed; listing
                                            questions; category questions; ranking questions; scale
                                            questions).The use of skip questions.Face sheet information.The use of response category quantifiers.
Also take a look at Sample Web Questionnaires at:

http://www.surveysystem.com/websurveys.htm





Piloting Questionnaires
Research instruments such as interview schedules can be modified if
                            certain questions appear to be ineffective, but questionnaires,
                            particularly if used for large surveys, are a 'one-shot'
                            attempt at data gathering. It is therefore essential that they are
                            accurate, unambiguous and simple to complete. As we saw in Chapter
                                10, piloting is vital. Judicious piloting will reduce the
                            incidence of non-response to the questionnaire. Gillham (2007) suggests
                            that it is wise to pilot at least 50 per cent more questions than you
                            need so that confusing or unreliable questions can be thrown out at this
                            stage. What else should be piloted? Well, basically, anything and
                            everything! But you could consider:
Instructions given to respondents.Style and wording of any accompanying letter.Content of face-sheet data, that is, respondents' names,
                                    addresses, etc.Formality or informality of the questionnaire in terms of tone,
                                    presentation, etc.Length of the questionnaire - if too long, is the
                                    response rate likely to be reduced?Sequence of questions.Quality of individual questions in terms of whether they are
                                    understood and answered in a way that was intended.Scales and question format used, for example, Likert scales,
                                    Yes/No responses, etc.



Pilot Testing Questionnaires Checklist


Oppenheim (1992) even suggests that the tables for the data analysis
                            phase of the final report should be piloted (that is, dummy tables
                            written) before the questionnaire is issued. This might highlight new
                            issues or problems that could require consideration and inclusion in the
                            questionnaire itself.
De Vaus (2002) suggests that evaluation is important in a number of
                            design areas, including checking for:
The ability of a question to discriminate. If everyone responds
                                    with the same answer to a question this is often not very
                                    useful, since one purpose of using a questionnaire is to examine
                                    the diversity of views on a subject.The validity and reliability of questions.Redundancy, so if it is found that two questions measure the
                                    same thing, one of them can be dropped.The response set. With some respondents, a pattern of answering
                                    Likert-type questions quickly sets in. So, if they tick
                                    'Strongly agree' for, say, the first three
                                    questions, this response becomes habitual and they tick all
                                    remaining questions with this response. To avoid this happening,
                                    it is wise to alternate responses, for example, by using a
                                    negative statement on which the respondent will have to
                                    disagree.
Who can help you with piloting? Gillham (2007) advises trying out your
                            initial list of questions with one or two people who are not part of the
                            target group. Explain that you are trying to get the questions right,
                            and that they should indicate where a question is unclear. Even sit with
                            them as they look through the questions, noting their comments and your
                            own observations on a spare questionnaire. Once you have amended the
                            questionnaire, re-trial it with another two or three people who are
                            similar to, but not part of, the target group. The procedure is the
                            same, but this time also ask for improvements, deletions and additions.
                            You are now ready to start designing the layout of the
                            questionnaire.
Of course, if the survey is delivered via the Web, in addition to the
                            issues raised above a whole new set of problems have to be faced. As we
                            saw earlier, the design of Web-based surveys offers both flexibility but
                            also opportunities to get things spectacularly wrong. As in any software
                            development, it is sensible to design and pilot a prototype of the final
                            site, so that user problems can be identified. Issues to look at here
                            include the use of colour, on-screen instructions, navigational routes
                            (especially for skip questions) and how respondents handle inputting
                            their responses to questions (do they know what to do?). Observation at
                            the piloting stage with respondents actually using the website
                            questionnaire may also reveal some entirely unanticipated problems. Case
                            Study 14.3 provides an example of how piloting can help to improve a
                            questionnaire.


Case Study 14.3

Questionnaire Piloting To Get It Right
We looked, briefly, at the subject of
                                    'whistleblowing' in organizations in Case Study
                                    5.1. Say that following their review of the literature, the
                                    researchers decided to conduct a national survey to explore
                                    public attitudes to whistleblowing and whether whistleblowers
                                    should be protected or prosecuted.
The study starts with the question:

When people learn about wrongdoing in their organization do
                                        they have a moral duty to report it by becoming a
                                        whistleblower?

YesNoDon't know/not sure
Piloting the questions reveals that:
Most respondents cannot report in general what is meant
                                            by 'moral duty'.Many people did not understand the concept
                                            'whistleblowing'.Respondents resisted selecting between just
                                            'Yes' and 'No' and wanted an
                                            opportunity to express their feelings between
                                            alternatives.
The question then was modified to read:

When people learn about wrongdoing in their organization
                                        should they report it by becoming a whistleblower (they
                                        report it to someone): (a) almost always; (b) most of the
                                        time; (c) some of the time; (d) never?

Piloting shows that this is an improvement because it asks people
                                    what they themselves think, and it is more specific about the
                                    subject being discussed (that whistleblowers divulge information
                                    that organizations would like to keep to themselves). It also
                                    provides a range of categories. Its disadvantage is that it does
                                    not reflect the range of possible responses identified in the
                                    literature.
The third and final version becomes:

Please indicate your view on each of the following
                                        statements:

When people hear of wrongdoing in their organization they
                                    should:






Activity 14.6
Take one or a small number of questions from a questionnaire you are
                                designing and pilot it/them with a sample audience. Amend the
                                question(s) on the basis of the responses and advice given. Pilot
                                the amended question(s). Amend them again. How similar is the third
                                version of the question(s) to what you started with?




Maintaining Quality: Validity And Reliability
Since questionnaires are one of the most popular instruments for data
                            gathering, you will not be surprised that we pause yet again to discuss
                            the issues of validity and reliability.

Validity
We saw earlier in this chapter that the validity of a questionnaire
                                can be affected by the wording of the questions it contains. But
                                even if individual questions are valid, a poor sequencing of
                                questions or confusing structure or design of the questionnaire can
                                all threaten its validity.
The questionnaire must cover the research issues both in terms of
                                content and detail. Recall Figure
                                    6.6 in Chapter 6 which shows the
                                dangers of a questionnaire not covering the research area (Zone of
                                Neglect) and some questions being asked that are irrelevant to the
                                study (Zone of Invalidity). It should be noted that asking spurious,
                                irrelevant questions increases the length of a questionnaire, which
                                in turn, may reduce the number of responses. If the response rate
                                becomes too low, this may limit the generalizability of the
                                findings, and hence external validity.
As we saw in Chapter 10, two threats to the
                                validity of postal questionnaires are the extent to which
                                respondents complete the questionnaires accurately, and the problem
                                of non-response. Accuracy can be checked by interviewing a sample of
                                respondents, and probing for how carefully they have answered the
                                questionnaire. For non-response, again follow-up interviews can be
                                used for those who did not reply, and their responses compared with
                                those who did answer the questionnaire to see if the two sets of
                                responses are similar. If they are, it suggests that the responding
                                and non-responding populations are the same, and there is no threat
                                from this source to the validity of data collected.

Top Tip 14.5
The validity of questionnaires is greatly assisted if you start
                                    from the basis of a set of clear and concise research questions.
                                    You can then formulate, say, three or four questions in the
                                    questionnaire that seek to gather data for each research
                                    question. In this way, you are achieving a tight match between
                                    your questionnaire and what you are attempting to research. If
                                    you find a question within the questionnaire that does not
                                    address one of your research question themes, ask yourself:
                                    should this question be here? Do I need it? If the answer is,
                                    'No', eliminate the question. But if the answer
                                    is, 'Yes', you will need to return to your
                                    research questions and modify or add to them so that your new
                                    question is addressed.



Asking the Right Questions





Reliability
In terms of questionnaire design, a high reliability means that if
                                you measured something today, you should get the same results at
                                some other time, assuming that what is being measured has not
                                changed (Black, 1993). As we discussed in Chapter
                                    6, reliability is a measure of consistency and can include
                                measures of:
Stability (over time).Equivalence (administering two versions of a test instrument
                                        to the same people on the same day).Inter-judge reliability.
The extent of this consistency is measured by a reliability
                                coefficient using a scale from 0.00 (very unreliable) to 1.00
                                (perfectly reliable). In practice, a score of 0.9 is generally
                                deemed to be acceptable. There are several ways in which this
                                coefficient can be calculated. One of the most common is
                                Cronbach's alpha, which presents the average of all possible
                                split-half correlations, and so measures the consistency of all
                                items, both globally and individually.



Questionnaire Administration
Even the best-designed questionnaire will not create an impact if care is
                            not taken with its administration, one of the fundamental objectives of
                            which is to maximize the return rate. We examine next some of the
                            techniques associated with different kinds of survey methods that were
                            discussed in Chapter 10.

Self-Administered Questionnaires

Postal Questionnaires
It is usual for a questionnaire to be accompanied by a letter.
                                    Getting the content, style and tone of this letter right is just
                                    as important as achieving the quality of these elements in the
                                    questionnaire. Indeed, since respondents will probably read the
                                    letter first, it could be argued that it is even more important.
                                    It is essential that you get the respondent's name,
                                    initials and preferred title absolutely right. Documentation
                                    sent to women should usually be titled Ms unless you know that
                                    they prefer another form.
The letter should cover issues such as the aims of the research,
                                    its importance (particularly its importance to the
                                    respondent's company or organization, if applicable), how
                                    long it will take to complete, and an assurance of
                                    confidentiality. The name of the sponsor or researcher should
                                    appear on the letterhead, and details of where to return the
                                    questionnaire should appear both on the letter as well as the
                                    questionnaire itself. Above all, the letter should be as brief
                                    and concise as possible, and should contain a note of thanks for
                                    the questionnaire's completion. If there are instructions
                                    that you particularly need to emphasize, state them as part of a
                                    postscript as people often notice these below the main text.
Saunders et al. (2012) list six further techniques that
                                    researchers will find useful:
Ensure that questionnaires and letters are printed and
                                            envelopes properly addressed.Make a pre-survey contact with recipients either by
                                            email, post or phone to warn them that the questionnaire
                                            is on its way.Post the questionnaire and covering letter to arrive at
                                            a convenient time.One week after the initial posting, send out the first
                                            follow-up reminder letters to all recipients.Send the second follow-up reminder to those who have not
                                            responded after three weeks.Post out a third follow-up if the response rate is
                                            low.
Of course, before reminders can be sent, it is necessary to know
                                    who has not responded. A useful technique is to number the
                                    questionnaires, but this will not work if anonymity has been
                                    promised to respondents. In this situation, a
                                    'scatter-gun' approach may be necessary, reminding
                                    all respondents but apologizing in advance to those who have
                                    already responded.
When sending reminders,
                                    emphasize the importance of the study and do not imply that the
                                    initial response has been poor - imply the contrary, if
                                    anything (providing this is truthful). When prompting, it is
                                    important not to be apologetic. Enclose another copy of the
                                    questionnaire and another stamped addressed envelope in case
                                    people had not received or had 'mislaid the
                                    original'. In terms of responses and timings, Table 14.6 suggests a
                                    typical pattern. It can be seen that after just over two weeks
                                    you will have received about 80 per cent of what will prove to
                                    be your final total. You will know by this point whether your
                                    final return rate is going to be successful, or not.
Postal questionnaires should be sent by first-class post and
                                    include a stamped addressed envelope. If the questionnaire is
                                    going to an individual in their home, Gillham (2007) suggests
                                    Thursday as the best day for posting as people have more time at
                                    weekends. Letters to organizations should be sent on Mondays or
                                    Tuesdays so that they can be completed at work.


Delivery And Collection Questionnaires
Since questionnaires are to be collected, clearly one of the
                                    prime factors is to ensure that respondents know exactly when
                                    this will occur. Saunders et al. (2012) advise that, when
                                    conducting research in an organization, response rates can be
                                    dramatically improved by calling all respondents to a meeting in
                                    the organization's time, explaining the purpose of the
                                    questionnaire, and getting it completed before people leave the
                                    meeting. A box near the exit to the room for collecting
                                    questionnaires may help to assure confidentiality.


Online Questionnaires
As we saw earlier, online questionnaires can be administered
                                    either by email or via the Web. For emails, it is relatively
                                    easy to obtain people's email addresses, but to contact a
                                    sample of respondents 'cold' would risk the
                                    accusation of 'spamming', that is, sending
                                    unsolicited messages. Another danger is that anonymity will be
                                    lost as respondents can be identified by their email
                                    addresses.
Nevertheless, emails can be used effectively for surveys either
                                    by including the questions in the main body of the email or
                                    sending the questionnaire as an attached document. Including
                                    questions in the body of an email message makes the
                                    questionnaire simple to return, but there is little opportunity
                                    for using the kind of layout and design that encourages the
                                    completion of a questionnaire.
If you are, say, conducting a survey within an organization that
                                    uses one software application standard, then you may be able to
                                    attach the document in a word processed application version that
                                    can be read by all. If the survey is cross-organization there
                                    will be risks that not everyone will be able to read the
                                    attachment, so including questions in an email is the safest
                                    approach. After this, procedures for sending reminders are the
                                    same as for postal questionnaires.




                                            P-day = Postal-day, i.e. the initial posting.






Interviewer-Administered Questionnaires

Structured Interview
Since structured interviews involve face-to-face contact, one of
                                    the essential administrative factors is arranging meetings with
                                    respondents, and improving the chances of respondents turning up
                                    for the interview. This chance will be increased if respondents
                                    are contacted in advance of the meeting and advised of dates,
                                    times and location, etc. If the structured interview involves
                                    some open as well as closed questions, it might be advisable to
                                    digitally record the interview since transcribing verbal
                                    dialogue is difficult unless you are skilled at shorthand. The
                                    use of tape recorders involves ethical issues including
                                    confidentiality, so you must ask permission before using one.
                                    Once interviews are completed, times for any return visits
                                    should be arranged. Further details of interview techniques are
                                    given in Chapter 15.


Telephone Questionnaire
For telephone questionnaires it is important that respondents
                                    know when they are to be interviewed, so they must be contacted
                                    by post and given clear details of dates and times (including
                                    the likely length of the interview). When calls are
                                    unsuccessful, the reasons should be noted, such as the fact that
                                    the respondent has moved or did not pick up the telephone. In
                                    the latter case, call three more times at different times of the
                                    day.




Summary
Designing individual questions involves a rigorous process of
                                    analysis to avoid ambiguity, leading questions, double questions
                                    and simply misleading questions.Questions must be clearly linked to the purpose of the research
                                    (as specified in the accompanying letter or documentation).Questionnaires should start with questions that are easy to
                                    answer, interesting and transparently linked to the purpose of
                                    the research.Questionnaire layout and the use of typography can make a
                                    questionnaire easier to complete and more appealing to
                                    respondents, enhancing the response rate.Clear, well set out instructions on completing the questionnaire
                                    can also boost the response rate.Web and email questionnaires offer a new and potentially
                                    powerful tool, but also require additional design skills.All questionnaires, whether paper-based, email or Web-based,
                                    require thorough piloting which will include evaluation of
                                    accompanying documentation, instructions, individual questions,
                                    types of question, question sequencing, the use of scales and
                                    skip instructions - basically, everything!

Review Questions
In many research studies, a questionnaire is just a tool
                                        looking for a job. Discuss.Should classification questions (for example, asking a
                                        respondent's age, gender, etc.) be placed at the
                                        beginning or at the end of a questionnaire? Justify your
                                            choice.Suggest four reasons as to why piloting a questionnaire is
                                        important.Why may forcing respondents to answer all questions reduce
                                        response rates?



Further Reading
Brace, I. (2008) Questionnaire Design: How to Plan, Structure and
                                Write Survey Material for Effective Market Research. London:
                            Kogan Page. Covers planning the questionnaire, formulating questions and
                            questionnaire design (including online questionnaires). As the title
                            suggests, written from a market research perspective.
Colton, D. and Covert, R.W. (2007) Designing and Constructing
                                Instruments for Social Research and Evaluation. San Francisco,
                            CA: Jossey-Bass. An easy-to-read and accessible book for students who
                            are new to questionnaire design as well as the more experienced.
                            Contains guidelines for reviewing and revising questionnaires to enhance
                            their validity and reliability.
De Vaus, D.A. (2002) Surveys in Social Research, 5th edn. London:
                            George Allen & Unwin. See specifically Chapter 7
                            on constructing questionnaires and Chapter 8
                            on administering questionnaires.
Gillham, B. (2007) Developing a Questionnaire, 2nd edn. London:
                            Continuum. A small and simply written book that provides an excellent
                            introduction to the subject. Includes chapters on questionnaire design,
                            distribution, data presentation and the analysis of open and closed
                            questions.


Journal Resources
Ashman, I. (2007) 'An investigation of the British organizational
                            commitment scale: A qualitative approach to evaluating construct
                            validity', Management Research News, 30(1): 5-24.
                            By challenging the validity of the British Organizational Commitment
                            Scale, draws lessons for improving validity in instrument design.
Dolnicar, S. (2013) 'Asking good research questions',
                                Journal of Travel Research, 52(5): 551-574. Offers a
                            wealth of practical advice on designing good survey questions.
Elaydi, R. (2006) 'Construct development and measurement of
                            indecisiveness', Management Decision, 44(10):
                            1363-1376. Discusses how an instrument to measure
                            'indecisiveness' was constructed and validated,
                            demonstrating some of the general principles of scale construction.


Suggested Answers For Activity 14.3
An ambiguous question since the categories overlap. Also
                                        impertinent in two ways - the fact that age is
                                    asked for (why is this necessary?) and the curt way in which
                                    this is demanded.Vague and therefore probably unreliable.Double question and therefore also ambiguous.
Loaded question.
Double negative. It also contains the phrase 'best
                                    practice' - what does this mean?Demands either memory recall (if the person is in a
                                    position to know the answer) or an expectation that they have
                                    the knowledge, which may not be the case.Impertinent.No instructions. It is unclear how to complete an answer
                                    - ticking or circling? The fact that only one answer can
                                    be given is assumed, but should be made explicit.
Finally, the questionnaire contains no introductory paragraph or
                            explanation of its purpose. It asks for respondents to give their name,
                            which does not appear necessary, and asks for their salary, which is
                            both unnecessary and impertinent. It offers no assurances of
                            confidentiality, does not explain what is going to be done with the
                            information and is unclear as to where it can be returned (and
                            when).

Don't forget to visit the companion website at https://study.sagepub.com/grayresearchbusiness for the
                                following resources which support this chapter:

















15 Interviewing

Chapter Introduction

Chapter Outline
Why use interviews?Selecting interview approachesDesigning credible interviewsInterviewing skillsGroup interviewsUsing telephone interviewsInterviewing in businesses - words of cautionEthical issues


Keywords
Structured interviewsSemi-structured interviewsNon-directive interviewsRapportActive listeningProbes



Icon Key







Author Video







Chapter Objectives
After reading this chapter you will be able to:
Describe and choose between structured, semi-structured,
                                        non-directive, focused and informal interviews on the basis
                                        of the objectives of the research.Select between using interviews and self-completed
                                        questionnaires.Produce valid and reliable interview schedules.Conduct an interview skilfully, tactfully, safely and
                                        ethically.



An interview is a verbal exchange in which one person, the interviewer,
                            attempts to acquire information from and gain an understanding of
                            another person, the interviewee. The latter may be invited to talk about
                            their own attitudes, beliefs, behaviours or experiences, as a citizen,
                            consumer or employee (Rowley, 2012). Very often, the interviewer will
                            have on hand a set of written questions which are posed in a structured
                            and methodical fashion (a structured interview). Alternatively, these
                            questions might only be used as an aide-mémoire, to remind
                            the researcher of the key areas that need probing. In either case,
                            interviews often make use of questionnaires, so this chapter has much in
                            common with Chapter 14. However, whereas the previous chapter focused on the
                            design of questionnaires, this chapter looks at one way, the interview,
                            in which they can be used. Hence we are shifting, to some extent, from
                            product (the questionnaire) to process.
Interviewing may pose challenges because of the human interaction between
                            the interviewer and respondent. The interviewer has to pose questions
                            (in either a structured, semi-structured or unstructured format), listen
                            to (and data capture) the responses (either by audio or video recording
                            or taking notes) and pose new questions. If the interview format is
                            relatively unstructured, then these questions have to be constructed
                            'on the fly'. The interviewer may also not only be
                            listening to the verbal responses, but be noting other elements of the
                            interview process, such as the body language of the interviewee.
                            However, despite the challenges involved, the well-conducted interview
                            is a powerful tool for eliciting rich data on people's views,
                            attitudes and the meanings that underpin their lives and behaviours.
In this chapter, we will examine some of the different interview
                            approaches, and look at some of the essential interviewing skills you
                            will need to acquire. We will also look, briefly, at telephone
                            interviews, and conclude with some thoughts on ethical issues in
                            interviewing. Note that approaches to coding the kinds of qualitative
                            data emanating from interviews is discussed in Chapter
                                24 on using NVivo and approaches to qualitative data analysis in
                                Chapter 25.


Why Use Interviews?
There are a number of situations in which the interview is the most
                            logical research technique. If the objective of the research, for
                            example, is largely exploratory, involving, say, the examination of
                            feelings or attitudes, then interviews may be the best approach. The use
                            of semi-structured interviews also allows the researcher to
                            'probe' for more detailed responses where the respondent
                            is asked to clarify what they have said. This phenomenological approach,
                            then, is concerned with the
                                meanings that people ascribe to phenomena. Interviewing is a
                            basic form of human activity, in which language is used between two
                            human beings in the pursuit of cooperative inquiry. Indeed, narratives
                            have been a major way down the ages in which people have sought to
                            capture their experience. As Reason (1981) comments:

The best stories are those that stir people's minds, hearts
                                and souls and by so doing, give them new insights into themselves,
                                their problems and their human condition. (1981: 50)

At the root of interviewing, then, is the intent to understand the lived
                            experiences of other people, and the meaning they make of that
                            experience (Seidman, 2013).



Understanding Business Research
                                    Interviews


Interviews are also useful where it is likely that people may enjoy
                            talking about their work, families, communities, feelings or
                            relationships, rather than filling in questionnaires. An interview
                            allows them an opportunity to reflect on events without having to commit
                            themselves in writing, often because they feel the information may be
                            confidential. They may never have met the researcher and may feel
                            concerned about some of the uses to which the information may be put.
                            Also, with questionnaires the concise meaning of a question may not
                            always be clear, whereas with an interview meanings can be immediately
                            clarified. For example, in undertaking a business survey, the author
                            once posed the question: 'How long has your firm been in
                            business?', which elicited the response: 'What, do you
                            mean just trading or actually being in profit?' Potentially, at
                            least, interviews can produce a greater response rate because questions
                            like this can be made explicit.
As Cohen and Manion (2000) point out, the interview can serve a number of
                            distinct purposes. First, it can be used as the means of gathering
                            information about a person's knowledge, values, preferences and
                            attitudes. Secondly, it can be used to test out a hypothesis or to
                            identify variables and their relationships. Thirdly, it can be used in
                            conjunction with other research techniques, such as surveys, to follow
                            up issues. For example, a survey by a sports shoe company might find a
                            relationship between age and the tendency to purchase certain kinds of
                            trainer. The company might then follow this up with structured
                            interviews among a sample of people from the original survey to explore
                            in more depth the values and motivation behind these buying
                            patterns.
Interviews are also preferable to questionnaires where questions are
                            either open-ended or complex, or where the logical order of questions is
                            difficult to pre-determine. But whether an interview is successful in
                            eliciting the range and depth of answers required will depend in large
                            part on the skills of the interviewer.
Essentially, the interview is the favoured approach where:
The research objectives are based upon understanding
                                    experiences, opinions, attitudes, values and processes.There is a need to attain highly personalized data.Opportunities for probing are required.A good return rate is important.Respondents are not fluent in the native language of the
                                    country, or where they have difficulties with written
                                    language.
In contrast, standardized questionnaires are more powerful where:
Large numbers of respondents must be reached.Better reliability of data is desired.
A summary of some of the pros and cons of interviews and
                            self-administered questionnaires is presented in Table
                                15.1.



Source: Adapted from Arksey and
                                Knight, 1999



Selecting Interview Approaches
There are several different types of interview, so the choice of
                            interview technique will depend in large part on the aims and objectives
                            of your research. Indeed, one of the purposes of the interview may be to
                            determine these research objectives themselves. There may also be
                            occasions when more than one interview type is used for a research
                            project.



Structured and Unstructured Interviews


Interviews may be divided into six categories:
Structured interviews.Semi-structured interviews.Non-directive interviews.Focused interviews.Informal conversational interviews.Problem-centred interviews.
Before looking at these
                            approaches in detail, it is worth noting that Roulston (2010) links the
                            type of interview used and the processes involved to the
                            researcher's philosophical position. Hence, she distinguishes
                            between research interviews that are:
Neo-positivist. The 'skilled' interviewer asks
                                    good questions, takes on a neutral role to avoid bias and
                                    generates data to produce valid findings.Romantic. The interviewer establishes rapport and an empathetic
                                    connection with the interviewee and gets him or her to generate
                                    self-disclosure and in-depth interpretations of their
                                    world.Constructionist. The interviewer and interviewee co-construct
                                    the data through unstructured and semi-structured interviews,
                                    working together to make sense of the research topic.
Consider these epistemological positions when looking at the six
                            interview approaches discussed below.

Structured Interviews
Structured interviews are often used to collect data for quantitative
                                analysis, and use pre-prepared questionnaires and standardized
                                questions, that is, the same questions are posed to all respondents.
                                Responses are recorded by the interviewer on a standardized
                                schedule, and, while there is some interaction between interviewer
                                and respondent, this is kept to a minimum. Ideally, questions are
                                read out in the same tone of voice so as not to influence answers.
                                Hence, structured interviews are similar to the use of
                                questionnaires, except that the interviewer poses the questions;
                                this is one way in which the researcher hopes that direct contact
                                will increase response rates compared with postal or online
                                questionnaires. Structured interviews are often used as a precursor
                                for more open-ended discussions such as non-directive
                                interviews.



Structured Interviews




Semi-Structured Interviews
Semi-structured interviews are non-standardized, and are often used
                                in qualitative analysis. The interviewer has a list of issues and
                                questions to be covered, but may not deal with all of them in each
                                interview. The order of questions may also change depending on what
                                direction the interview takes. Indeed, additional questions may be
                                asked, including some which were not anticipated at the start of the
                                interview, as new issues arise. Responses will be documented by note
                                taking or possibly by recording the interview.



Semi-Structured Interviews


The semi-structured interview allows for probing of views and
                                opinions where it is desirable for respondents to expand on their
                                answers. This is vital when a phenomenological approach is being
                                taken where the objective is to explore subjective meanings that
                                respondents ascribe to concepts or events. Such probing may also
                                allow for the diversion of the interview into new pathways which,
                                while not originally considered as part of the interview, help
                                towards meeting the research objectives.


Non-Directive Interviews
Non-directive interviews are used to explore an issue or topic in
                                depth and questions are not, generally, pre-planned. Clearly,
                                though, the researcher must have a notion of the objectives of the
                                research and, therefore, what issues are going to be addressed in
                                the interview. The format of the interview will be such that the
                                respondents are allowed to talk freely around the subject. The input
                                of the interviewer is mainly confined to checking on any doubtful
                                points and rephrasing answers to check for accuracy of
                                understanding. Like semi-structured interviews, non-directive
                                interviews tend to collect data for qualitative analysis.



Focused Interviews
The focused interview is based upon the respondent's
                                subjective responses to a known situation in which they have been
                                involved. The interviewer has prior knowledge of this situation and
                                is, thus, able to re-focus respondents if they drift away from the
                                theme. An analogy would be the celebrity television interview in
                                which the interviewer has already analysed the interviewee's
                                autobiography and wishes to probe certain issues in more depth.



Pre-Researched Interviewees




Informal Conversational Interviews
The informal conversational interview relies on the spontaneous
                                generation of questions as the interview progresses. This is the
                                most open-ended form of interview technique. One of the advantages
                                of this approach is the flexibility it offers in terms of what path
                                the interview takes. Indeed, the interviewee may not even know an
                                interview is taking place. This, though, will rule out the taking of
                                notes during the interview. In cases where the fact that an
                                interview is taking place is known, it is appropriate to take
                                notes or to use a digital recorder.
One of the drawbacks of the conversational interview is the danger of
                                the 'interviewer effect', that is, the interviewer may
                                begin to influence the course and direction of the interview.
                                Another disadvantage is that it may take some time before the
                                interviewer has posed similar questions to the set of people being
                                interviewed. Finally, the data collected through conversational
                                interviews may be difficult to analyse because different questions
                                have been asked of different people. As a result, the researcher
                                will have to sift through the data to find emerging patterns.
A summary of the characteristics of the different types of interview
                                is provided in Table 15.2.


Source: Adapted from Arksey and
                                    Knight, 1999



Top Tip 15.1
Non-directive, focused and informal conversational interviews are
                                    great for collecting a large amount of qualitative data.
                                    However, before you decide on one of these approaches, make sure
                                    that you have decided on what approach you intend to adopt for
                                    data analysis - see Chapter 25.



Problem-Centred Interviews
The problem-centred interview combines an open approach with minimal
                                interview structuring in the first phase of the interview, followed
                                by a second semi-structured phase which allows the interviewer to
                                set a focus. In the first phase, then, open questions are posed to
                                elicit stories and narrations that are structured by the interviewee
                                themselves. Scheibelhofer (2008) provides an example of this in her
                                study of Austrian migrants who had settled in New York. In this
                                research the first, narrative phase was considered pivotal as she
                                was interested in the constructions of migration from the
                                interviewees' perspectives. So, she initiated the interviews
                                with phrases such as:

Could you please tell me everything that is involved in you
                                    coming to New York and how your life went since then? I will
                                    listen and make some notes and will not interrupt you until you
                                    have finished. Please take as much time as you feel necessary
                                    and tell me all the details that you remember that, in your
                                    opinion, are connected to your living in New York.
                                    (Scheibelhofer, 2008: 407)

After the interviewees have finished their stories, the researcher
                                then asks open questions (based on the notes they took during the
                                first phase), related to the topics the interviewee has brought up
                                but had not elaborated on. This second set of questions often gets
                                the interviewee to further narrate. Following these questions the
                                interviewer then asks a set of questions that had been prepared
                                before the interview usually related to the interviewee's
                                level of education, job biography, ties with relatives and friends
                                and future aspirations.
Problem-centred interviews are particularly appropriate when the
                                focus is on personal biography and getting respondents to narrate
                                their personal perspectives on a theme.



Designing Credible Interviews
One of the prime driving forces behind the design of interviews is the
                            search for credibility by ensuring that the findings can be trusted,
                            which includes issues of validity and reliability. But since interviews
                            often come from a more qualitative perspective, it would be a mistake to
                            apply these concepts rigidly. Instead, we might want to also make use of
                            other indicators of credibility. We also need to ask some familiar
                            questions about the extent to which the findings from the interview
                            study can be generalized to a wider population.

Validity
As we saw in Chapter 6, validity means that
                                an instrument must measure what it was intended to measure. In the
                                case of structured and semi-structured interviews, the issue of
                                validity can be directly addressed by attempting to ensure that the
                                question content directly concentrates on the research objectives.
                                For informal conversational, focused and non-directive interviews, the issue of
                                validity is more problematic because, by their very nature, the
                                direction questions take will depend, in large part, on the
                                responses of the interviewee. In a sense, instead of these
                                approaches commencing with a rigid set of objectives, the subject
                                matter emerges inductively from the interview itself. But the
                                research will need to ensure that if any research questions require
                                addressing, this is achieved by the end of the interview.
According to Arksey and Knight (1999), validity is strengthened
                                by:
Using interview techniques that build rapport and trust,
                                        thus giving informants the scope to express themselves.Prompting informants to illustrate and expand on their
                                        initial responses.Ensuring that the interview process is sufficiently long for
                                        subjects to be explored in depth.Constructing interviewing schedules that contain questions
                                        drawn from the literature and from pilot work with
                                        respondents.
Another important issue of interview design is that of external
                                validity, that is, as we have seen, the extent to which findings
                                from a study can be generalized. As we saw in Table
                                    15.1, interviews are best used when the study is relatively
                                small scale, since interviewing very large samples can be both
                                expensive and time-consuming. Hence, external validity may be
                                restricted. On a practical note, Rowley (2012) suggests that a good
                                rule-of-thumb is to aim for around 12 interviews of approximately 30
                                minutes in length, or the equivalent, say, six to eight interviews
                                of around an hour. For a more extended study, a second phase of
                                interviews can be conducted. Guest, Bunce and Johnson (2006) also
                                suggest 12 interviews, when the aim is to understand common
                                perceptions among a group of relatively homogeneous individuals.
                                Kuzel (1992) recommends between 12 and 20 interviews when the aim is
                                to achieve maximum variation in the data or to locate disconfirming
                                evidence. However, Guest et al. (2006) argue that 12 interviews is
                                unlikely to be enough if the sample is heterogeneous, the data
                                quality poor, or the domain of inquiry diffuse or vague. Larger
                                samples will also be needed if the aim is to assess variations
                                between distinct groups or correlations among variables. Arksey and
                                Knight (1999) offer two practical principles that can be adopted in
                                making a more plausible case for generalizing from interview
                                findings:
Try to select a sample that allows for a subject to be
                                        viewed from all relevant perspectives.Keep increasing the sample size, or sub-samples that
                                        represent different perspectives, until no new viewpoints
                                        are emerging from the data. A sample size of eight is often
                                        sufficient, although a survey should then be used to verify
                                        the data.
In a practical sense, this means that interview data need to be
                                studied and analysed as they are collected, until it is clear that
                                perspectives are being repeated and data saturation reached, that
                                is, the point at which no new information or themes are observed in
                                the data.


Reliability And Bias
For a research instrument to be reliable it must consistently
                                measure what it set out to measure. There is, at least, some
                                potential for such consistency when an interview is standardized,
                                with the same questions being asked of each respondent. However,
                                even with standardized questions the issue of interviewer bias comes
                                into play - does the interviewer ask the questions in the
                                same way and with the same tone of voice with all respondents? In
                                other words, what must be avoided is the 'interviewer
                                effect'.
Interviewer bias can creep into the interview situation in many
                                subtle, and not so subtle, ways. An interviewer, for example, might
                                (unconsciously) give less time to shopfloor workers when conducting an interview than to
                                supervisory and management grade employees. Similarly, prompt cards
                                might be issued to shopfloor workers but not to 'more
                                intelligent-looking' office workers. The only way to avoid
                                this kind of systematic error is to standardize not only the
                                interview schedule, but the behaviour of the interviewer. This is
                                especially important if interviews are being conducted by more than
                                one person. This does not mean that all interviews will be
                                identical, since sometimes an interviewer will have to depart from a
                                script to provide guidance or clarification. The skill of the
                                interviewer is to provide such explanation without influencing the
                                answer of the respondent.
Oppenheim (1992) suggests a number of ways in which bias occurs,
                                namely:
Departures from the interviewing instructions.Poor maintenance of rapport with the respondent.Altering factual questions.Rephrasing of attitude questions.Careless prompting.Biased probes.Asking questions out of sequence.Biased recording of verbatim answers.
One way of avoiding, or at least minimizing, interviewer bias is to
                                require all interviewers to follow the same protocol. Hence, a set
                                of guidelines might be drawn up which ask the interviewer to read
                                the questions exactly as they are written, to repeat a
                                question if asked, to accept a respondent's refusal to answer
                                a question without any sign of irritation, and to probe in a
                                non-directive manner. The following Case Study gives a practical
                                example of how bias can occur if guidelines such as these are not
                                followed.

Case Study 15.1

Interviewer Bias - It Can Drive You To
                                        Drink!
In 1929, during the Great Depression, a New York researcher
                                        hired several interviewers to ask destitute people about
                                        their situation. Several years later the researcher reviewed
                                        some of the interviews. He noticed that the responses of one
                                        interviewer attributed most of the causes of destitution to
                                        economic factors such as unemployment, while the responses
                                        of another interviewer focused on problems with alcohol
                                        abuse. The researcher located the two interviewers and
                                        talked to them. He found that the first one was a socialist
                                        and the second, a prohibitionist. There was, thus, a strong
                                        suggestion that the causes of bias were located in the
                                        behaviour of the interviewers.


Source: Adapted from Beed and Stimson, 1985



Activity 15.1
Record a 'serious' television interview. From the
                                    content of the interview look for evidence of interviewer bias
                                    in the content of the questions, the way in which they are
                                    expressed, or the non-verbal behaviour of the interviewer.
                                    Political interviews, of course, are not necessarily intended to
                                    exemplify the degree of objectivity of a research interview, but
                                    they may illustrate the issue of bias more clearly.




More Quality Indicators
We have looked so far at validity and reliability as factors that
                                enhance the credibility of an interview study. We need, however, to
                                find some alternative, or at least additional, sources of quality.
                                One important indicator is consistency, showing how the
                                research has been conducted and the plausibility of the
                                researcher's actions and analysis. The study should also
                                provide evidence of accuracy, showing that the data is a fair
                                representation of what informants have actually said. This might
                                mean checking with interviewees that they have not been
                                misinterpreted. Finally, the study must attempt to demonstrate
                                    neutrality, showing that the researcher is aware of the
                                possible confounding effects of their own actions and perceptions
                                and that these, as far as possible, have been accounted for.



Interviewing Skills
Interviewing is a skill that must be learned through experience and
                            practice. Of course, the respondent must first of all agree to be
                            interviewed, and this might depend on a number of factors. Getting an
                            interview might depend upon:
Your status: Are you 'internal' to the
                                    organization, or, say, someone completing a research project as
                                    part of an academic programme? If you are an internal
                                    researcher, how senior are you in the organization - and
                                    particularly, how senior compared to the interviewee?The project: Is the project of interest to the potential
                                    respondent? Is there a potential payoff (such as a copy of the
                                    research or a summary of the main findings)?Yourself: Do you seem trustworthy, personable and
                                    professional?



Interviews in Market Research


Hence, the quality of any initial contact with potential interviewees is
                            of vital importance. Be clear about how much time is needed for the
                            interview. Assure the interviewee of confidentiality, and invite them to
                            indicate their availability over, say, the next two weeks. If they are
                            unwilling or unable to be interviewed face-to-face, consider using
                            telephone interviews or Skype. Once agreement is obtained, there is some
                            preparatory work to be done, after which there are a number of
                            techniques that help in the interviewing process.

Getting Started

Preparing For The Interview
Interviews cannot be rushed. Wengraf (2001) advises that you
                                    should arrive at least 30 minutes before the scheduled interview
                                    to make the necessary preparations and put aside at least an
                                    hour after the interview to make field notes. So, a 45-minute
                                    interview, for example, could take up to 2-3 hours to
                                    complete. Only by allowing yourself a clear stretch of time will
                                    you be assured that the interview will be conducted in a
                                    stress-free and unhurried fashion.
Wengraf (2001) sets out a schedule that should be followed, even
                                    before the day of the interview. About three weeks before, it is
                                    sometimes useful to get respondents to complete a pre-interview
                                    questionnaire dealing with demographic issues (for example, age,
                                    occupation and other details) so that the interview can focus on
                                    more substantive matters. Or you may have requested material
                                    from the respondent, and you will need time to read and reflect
                                    on it. About 7-10 days before the interview, you need to
                                    contact the respondent to make sure that they are still
                                    available, provide final confirmation about the exact location
                                    of the interview, and respond to any last-minute queries or
                                    concerns. The day before the interview you need to check that
                                    you have all the material you need at your disposal, and
                                    especially that you have an up-to-date version of your interview
                                    schedule. A summary of these actions is presented in Figure 15.1.
Figure
                                            15.1 Pre-interview timeline

Top Tip 15.2
Make sure that any equipment, such as a digital recorder, is
                                        working and that you have spare batteries, plenty of blank
                                        memory cards, cables to the electricity supply and extension
                                        leads, note paper, pens and perhaps two bottles of mineral
                                        water in case either you or the interviewee gets
                                        thirsty.



Preliminaries At The Start Of The Interview
The first task of the interviewer is to explain the purpose of
                                    the interview, who the information is for, how the information
                                    is going to be handled (including issues of confidentiality),
                                    why the information is being collected and how it will be used.
                                    This should not require a long speech, but should be done
                                    quickly and simply. Above all, the importance of the information
                                    should be stressed. If the research has been commissioned by a
                                    particular division or department of the organization this
                                    should be made clear. Ask permission to record the
                                    interview.
Also ensure that the seating arrangements are acceptable to both
                                    parties. Sitting closely and face-to-face can feel
                                    confrontational and threatening. It is usually best to face each
                                    other but at a slight angle (see Image 15.1). Having some
                                    furniture such as a table between the interviewer and respondent
                                    also provides something on which to place note paper and creates
                                    safe 'distance' between the parties. The seating
                                    should also be arranged so that the interviewee cannot read
                                    forthcoming questions or any notes that are being made.
Image 15.1
                                        Ideal set up versus confrontational set up© iStock.com / Brad-Killer© iStock.com / BraunS


Building Rapport With The Respondent
Rapport means an understanding, one established on a basis of
                                    respect and trust between the interviewer and respondent. To
                                    establish a rapport it is particularly important to make the
                                    respondent relaxed and to get the interview off to a good start.
                                    This means you should:
Describe how the interview will be conducted, how long
                                            it should last and the general subjects that are to be
                                            covered.Ask for permission to record the interview (and listen
                                            attentively for responses and note body language).Make guarantees of confidentiality.Ask if the respondent has any questions.
Rapport is described by Oppenheim (1992) as an elusive quality,
                                    and one that often only experienced and skilled interviewers
                                    possess. If an interviewer has little rapport, the respondent
                                    may be unwilling to answer questions or may cut the interview
                                    short. If the interviewer has too much rapport he or she may
                                    soon find themselves cast in the role of social worker or
                                    counsellor. The secret is to remain objective, professional and
                                    detached, yet relaxed and friendly (who said that interviewing
                                    was easy?!)

Employability Skill 15.1

Building Empathy
Rapport tends to develop if you have, or develop during
                                            the interview, a natural empathy with the respondent.
                                            Empathy means you can understand issues from their
                                            perspective. This means active and attentive
                                            listening.



Building Empathy






Top Tip 15.3
Before commencing an interview, it is very important to get
                                        your interviewee as relaxed as possible. When relaxed, they
                                        are more likely to provide you with rich, honest and
                                        illuminating data. Smile and be relaxed yourself. Make sure
                                        that the respondent knows about the purpose of the interview
                                        so that they are put at ease. Start off with easy questions
                                        or questions that the respondent is more likely to enjoy
                                        answering.



Top Tip: Preparing Your
                                                Interviewee






Conducting The Interview

Employability Skill 15.2

Impression Management
Oppenheim (1992) warns that an interviewer creates an
                                        impression on the respondent, even before he or she opens
                                        their mouth. Features such as general appearance, mode of
                                        dress, accent (see next section), hairstyle, ethnicity and social
                                        background may all play a part. Different respondents will
                                        be affected in different ways. If an interviewer wears an
                                        expensive business suit and interviews top management, this
                                        might be acceptable, but would the interviewer receive the
                                        same reaction in the machine shop? As Oppenheim warns,
                                        however, there are no hard and fast rules here. Production
                                        line workers might be quite intrigued about being
                                        interviewed by someone in a suit and tie.



Deceptive Impression
                                                Management


The key is that the interviewer should be aware of the
                                        process of impression management, and should try to avoid
                                        giving expression to her or his own distinctive style. The
                                        aim is for bland, social neutrality.





Use Of Language
One problem that needs to be borne in mind is that words can have
                                    different meanings to different people. In the UK, especially,
                                    there are difficulties stemming from the way different social
                                    classes use vocabulary. The word 'dinner', for
                                    example, has a meaning that is different in middle- and
                                    working-class language, or regions of the UK, where for some it
                                    is the meal eaten around the middle of the day, while for others
                                    it is consumed towards the end. In a business setting, the word
                                    'management' may have different connotations.
                                    Managers themselves, for example, may see it as a way of
                                    steering the company (in the interests of all employees)
                                    towards profit and efficiency. Some employees, however, may view
                                    the word more negatively in terms of interference and control
                                    from 'above'. The key is making use of language
                                    that is accessible to your audience. Kvale (1996) suggests
                                    hanging about the environment in which the interviews are to be
                                    conducted to get an introduction to local language and
                                    routines.


Maintaining Control Of The Interview
Since time is usually of the essence, it is important that the
                                    interviewer keeps control of the interview, minimizing
                                    long-winded responses and digressions. Patton (2002) argues that
                                    control is maintained by:
Knowing what the interview is seeking to find out.Asking the right questions.Giving appropriate verbal and non-verbal feedback.
This means listening
                                    carefully to responses and channelling the interview back onto
                                    the right tracks if necessary. As Patton (2002) warns, it is not
                                    enough to have an excellent list of questions if the respondent
                                    is permitted to stray from the point.

Activity 15.2
Consider the following exchange:

Interviewer: Could you tell me
                                            something about your feelings when voluntary
                                            redundancies were called for?
Respondent: The request for
                                            redundancies came in a letter to all of us just before
                                            Christmas last year. They were asking for 200 people to
                                            go, out of a workforce of just 850. Quite a few people I
                                            know were very interested in the package on offer from
                                            day one.

Is the response an acceptable reply to the question?
Suggested answers are provided at the end of the chapter.



Verbal and non-verbal communication should be used to provide
                                    appropriate feedback. If, for example, the respondent is on
                                    track, head nodding, the active taking of notes and the
                                    occasional verbal acknowledgement, should all help. Similarly,
                                    the use of a silent probe, remaining quiet when further
                                    elaboration of a point is desired, is quite valid. If the
                                    respondent is straying off the point, then the usual cues such
                                    as head nodding should cease, and a new question interjected as
                                    soon as the respondent hesitates. As Patton (2002) warns, it may
                                    sometimes become necessary to actively intervene with a
                                    statement such as: 'Can we stop there. I just want to
                                    check that I fully understanding something you just
                                    said'. Then ask a question aimed at a more targeted
                                    response.

Top Tip 15.4
Do not be embarrassed about interrupting the interviewee if
                                        this means getting the interview back on track. But one of
                                        the skills of interviewing is knowing what is relevant and
                                        irrelevant as the interview progresses (so think back to
                                        your research objectives or general theme!).



Improvising When Necessary
In semi-structured or unstructured interviews, improvisation may
                                    be the key to success. According to Wengraf (2001), the
                                    interviewer may have to improvise between 50 and 80 per cent of
                                    the time with new questions on the basis of the planned
                                    questions asked. To improvise effectively, Arksey and Knight
                                    (1999) offer the following tips:
Vary the question order to fit the flow of the
                                            interview.Vary the phrasing of the questions to help the
                                            conversation seem natural.Let the interview seem to go off track.Build trust and rapport by putting something of the
                                            interviewer's self into the interview, possibly
                                            by raising similar or different experiences.
Improvising, of course,
                                    is a skill that needs to be built through experience. One of the
                                    essential elements of improvising is the use of probes, that is,
                                    follow up questions that arise 'in the moment' in
                                    response to the answers being given by respondents. This
                                    requires active listening skills (see below) and an ability to
                                    recognize an avenue that is worth exploring. A probing question
                                    might be worth posing if, say, a respondent hints that they can
                                    tell a more detailed story or give illuminating comments about
                                    the theme being researched.

Activity 15.3
Having used a semi-structured or unstructured approach, go
                                        through the transcripts and note where you improvised. What
                                        was the result? How else could the question or comment have
                                        been phrased to improve the response? Was the eventual
                                        outcome a success? Should you continue with this approach,
                                        or adopt a more structured one?



Asking Questions
As with the case of questionnaires, interview questions should be
                                    phrased so that their meaning is unambiguous, and they should be
                                    delivered in as neutral a tone of voice as possible. As we saw
                                    in Chapter 13, there are also
                                    certain ways of formulating questions that must be avoided.
                                    These include questions that:
Contain jargon.Use prejudicial language.Are ambiguous.Lead the respondent.Include double questions.Contain hypothetical statements.Probe personal or sensitive issues.Require memory recall or knowledge the respondent does
                                            not possess.
Cluster groups of questions that deal with similar issues, and
                                    then sequence these blocks of questions in a logical order. How
                                    many questions should be asked? Rowley (2012) recommends that a
                                    semi-structured interview schedule with around six to 12
                                    well-chosen questions is a good starting point. Each question
                                    might have two to four sub-questions or prompts which can be
                                    used flexibly by the interviewer to ensure that the interviewee
                                    explores the main theme in sufficient depth.

Top Tip 15.5
The type and quality of questions you ask are at the core of
                                        a successful interview. So, having drafted a set of
                                        questions, try them out on friends or peers to see if they
                                        'work'. Do they avoid the kinds of problems
                                        identified above? Are they clear and unambiguous?



Employability Skill 15.3

Active Listening Skills
Active listening involves attentive listening, that is,
                                            not just listening to the words that are being said, but
                                            also to the tone and emphasis. Attentive listening also
                                            means that the respondent should be doing most of the
                                            talking! If attentive listening is achieved, it should
                                            be possible to pick up new or significant themes that
                                            can be probed with new questions. Sometimes silences or
                                            incomplete statements can reveal more than what is
                                            actually said. Attentive listening involves identifying
                                            these incomplete replies and following them up.



Improve Listening Skills


It should be remembered that an interview is not a normal
                                            conversation and therefore the usual norms of human
                                            interaction do not necessarily apply. Where in normal
                                            conversation it might be acceptable to occasionally
                                            glance at one's watch or look away, in interviews
                                            a far greater degree of attentiveness is required. This
                                            means listening to and interpreting the meaning of what
                                            is being said, but also noting the tone and delivery of
                                            the dialogue to pick up any traces of irritation,
                                            confusion or boredom.




Observing And Reflecting
Like listening, careful observing helps to detect information on
                                    how the interview is progressing. Observation of the
                                    respondent's body language, for example, is important to
                                    detect important clues on the respondent's concentration
                                    level, motivation to continue with the interview and whether she
                                    or he is at ease. If negative signs are detected, it may mean
                                    changing the sequencing of questions, bringing easier or less
                                    controversial ones up the order.
Of course, self-observation (reflection) is just as important.
                                    Self-understanding helps us to make our questioning and probing
                                    more sensitive. If, for example, the interviewer knows that he
                                    tends to dominate most natural conversations, he might make a
                                    conscious effort to hold back and leave spaces for the
                                    respondent to fill.

Employability Skill 15.4

Testing And Summarizing Understanding
A useful approach is occasionally to repeat back to the
                                            interviewee what you believe they have just told you.
                                            This is particularly important if there are statements
                                            or issues that are not fully understood. A summary needs
                                            to be accurate, focused and succinct - not a
                                            long-winded ramble. If the respondent comments on the
                                            summary, listen carefully for their response since it
                                            may, in obvious or subtle ways, differ from your
                                            summary. If this happens, summarize again (and keep
                                            summarizing) until agreement and clarity are
                                            reached.



Appropriate Body Language






Closing The Interview
It is at this point that you should check that you have asked all
                                    the questions that you intended. It is worthwhile asking the
                                    interviewee if they have any questions or final comments that
                                    they would like to make.
It is important that both you and the respondent leave the
                                    interview with a positive sense of achievement. Even if you feel
                                    less than elated by the data you have gathered, thank the interviewee for their
                                    help and their valuable observations. (You should follow this up
                                    later with a more formal email thanking them.) Then describe
                                    what happens next, particularly in terms of whether the
                                    respondents will be needed for checking the accuracy of
                                    transcripts, and the reporting process and follow-up work. It is
                                    worth noting that interviewees often make some of their most
                                    interesting and valuable points once they think that the
                                    interview is over. Interviewers should not then suddenly
                                    scramble for note paper, but should remember and note these
                                    remarks once the respondent has left the interview setting.



Recording And Transcribing Data
There should be no short cuts when it comes to recording data. The
                                analysis stage is made redundant if the data have not been collected
                                carefully. Patton (2002) suggests that, no matter what the kind of
                                interviewing style used, and no matter how carefully interview
                                questions are worded, all is wasted unless the words of the
                                interviewee are captured accurately.
Taking notes may be useful for a number of reasons, since it:
Can help in the formulation of new questions.Provides a means for locating important quotations during
                                        later analysis.Is a non-verbal behaviour that helps pace the interview,
                                        providing the interviewee with a cue that they have said
                                        something significant.
Note taking, however, is much harder than it sounds, especially since
                                making handwritten notes is a slow and often inaccurate process.
                                Many people now type, but even here some are quicker than others.
                                You will also be observing the respondent and thinking of the next
                                question. It is probably best to jot down key words and occasional
                                verbatim comments. It is usually better to make notes in conjunction
                                with an audio or video recording. Particularly in the case of the
                                former, it should be possible to note the digital recorder counter
                                number where a key statement has been made.

Top Tip 15.6
The use of a digital recorder is vital for conducting interviews.
                                    Not only does it record the essential data, it permits the
                                    interviewer to concentrate on the process of listening,
                                    interpreting and re-focusing the interview. Using a digital
                                    recorder, though, is not always without its problems. In the
                                    workplace, respondents may, initially, feel uneasy about being
                                    recorded. They will need reassurance as to confidentiality. In
                                    terms of the ethics of research, they should also be given the
                                    right to turn off the recorder at any time.
Give some careful consideration to the recording equipment you
                                    will need. Ensure you have enough digital storage capacity for
                                    the length of interview. Always make use of an external
                                    microphone rather than relying on the digital recorder's
                                    internal microphone, as this will give you superior sound
                                    reproduction.


Activity 15.4
Test out the quality of reproduction of your digital recorder by
                                    making practice recordings at different distances from the
                                    microphone. What is the furthest distance that gives you a
                                    quality of recording from which you can comfortably transcribe?
                                    If you are doing group interviews, will you need two
                                    microphones?



Patton (2002) suggests that
                                the ideal objective is to achieve a full transcription of the
                                interview. This process, however, is both expensive and
                                time-consuming, with perhaps each hour of live interview requiring
                                between 7 and 10 hours of transcribing. Nevertheless, there is
                                really no substitute for being able to see all the transcribed data
                                at a glance during the analysis stage of the research. If it is
                                simply impractical to achieve full transcription, one option is to
                                use notes taken at the interview to locate key quotations or
                                passages that can be accessed on the recording for
                                transcription.


Writing Up The Report
There are many ways of converting transcripts and other interview
                                data sources (such as the researcher's own notes) into a
                                credible and accessible report. This process is helped by being able
                                to code data (see Chapter 24 on Getting started
                                with NVivo) and analyse qualitative data (see Chapter
                                    25). However, it is worth pointing out here that certain
                                approaches add weight to the research outputs while others detract
                                from them. Rowley (2012), for example, recommends that reports
                                should contain a table that outlines the basic profile of
                                interviewees, in terms of their job role, qualifications,
                                experience, gender and any other criteria that might be considered
                                relevant. This profile serves to demonstrate to the reader that the
                                interviewees have the necessary authority or knowledge to comment on
                                the subject.
Another issue is when or how to use quotations. Too often,
                                inexperienced researchers pepper the page with quotations, trying to
                                get the quotations themselves to carry the main burden of the
                                argument. This approach never works because no attempt has been made
                                by the researcher to link the quotations to an argument or theme;
                                indeed, the overuse of quotations usually means that the researcher
                                has made little or no effort to actually identify the themes that
                                have emerged from the data. The left-hand column in Figure 15.2, then, illustrates
                                the 'death by quotation' approach, while the
                                right-hand column illustrates an example of a more appropriate
                                approach. Quotations, then, must be used to support and illustrate
                                themes not to explain the themes themselves.
Figure 15.2
                                    The 'pacing' of quotations from interviews in the
                                    final report
Do not use quotations that
                                are merely descriptive. Use them where the way in which the
                                respondent has commented is vibrant, exciting, controversial, or
                                surprising. So, in commenting on how a director started a successful
                                consultancy business, the following phrase might be summarized by
                                the researcher as part of the theme, rather than as a quotation:
                                'Having been made redundant during the 2008 banking crisis,
                                the CEO borrowed money from her family to start a new consultancy
                                venture.' However, the following might be considered for use
                                as a quotation given its passion: 'When I was made redundant
                                I went through about a year of depression. I applied for jobs but
                                just ended up with a pile of rejection notices. One day my father
                                suggested that I put some of my business skills to good use by
                                starting my own consultancy business. Since then I've never
                                looked back.'
Finally, some advice on how to make use of contentious comments or
                                where there is a divergence of opinion. Novice researchers are often
                                inclined to see counter-views as reducing the clarity of the
                                findings and may attempt to hide them. This is a mistake. As Rowley
                                (2012) makes clear, disagreements should be reported because they
                                enhance the findings, demonstrating a richness of results.


Dealing With Problem Respondents
Interviewing presents a wide variety of potential difficulties.
                                Within the workplace, people may be very reluctant to answer
                                questions connected with their job responsibilities because they may
                                feel vulnerable. Why am I being asked about my job? Why have
                                    I been picked out? What are they going to do with the
                                information? Similarly, they may be nervous about expressing their
                                views about issues and subjects connected with the company, and may
                                be tempted to provide answers they think are wanted (socially
                                desirable responses) rather than what they actually believe. Also,
                                unless the research is seen to be officially sponsored by the
                                organization in some way, it might be viewed as irrelevant snooping.
                                If the research is sponsored, the level of this sponsorship
                                within the organization hierarchy may prove a factor in eliciting
                                cooperation.
Knowledge questions can also prove to be an embarrassment if people
                                do not know the answer, particularly if they are supposed to be
                                subject matter experts; for example, if interviewing a lawyer and
                                they have forgotten a vital detail in the law. The interviewer must
                                never show surprise at a wrong answer or hint what the correct
                                answer should be. Keep a look out for body language that signals
                                discomfort, anger or irritation, and be prepared to switch questions
                                or even to curtail the interview. Table
                                    15.3 provides a simple summary checklist of dos and
                                don'ts of conducting interviews.

Employability Skill 15.5

Observing The Body Language Of Interview
                                        Respondents
Body language gives away signals that can often be missed
                                        when listening to verbal discourse. Defensive postures
                                        include folded arms, turning the body away from the
                                        interviewer, looking down or maintaining minimal eye
                                        contact. By being attentive to these signals, you will be
                                        able to modify what you say and attempt to build more
                                        rapport with the respondent.







Source: Adapted from Arksey and
                                    Knight, 1999



Conducting Multicultural Interviews
It is worth considering the implications of conducting interviews
                                with people who are of a different ethnic, social or cultural group
                                to that of the interviewer. We have seen the importance of building
                                rapport between the two parties, and the significance of impression
                                management and the use of language. It is extremely easy for any of
                                these elements to go wrong unless the interviewer is aware of, and
                                prepared for, the kinds of problems that can arise. Vazquez-Montilla
                                et al. (2000) talk about the need for culturally responsive
                                interviewing that is more sensitive to and aware of multi-ethnic
                                cultural perspectives, and they introduce the notion of
                                'Triple A' (AAA) practices: authenticity, affinity and
                                accuracy.
Working with Hispanic families in Florida, USA, the researchers found
                                that their own Hispanic backgrounds were vital in establishing
                                authenticity since the researchers were able to 'validate
                                their ethnic match and cultural backgrounds'
                                (Vazquez-Montilla et al., 2000: 4). To accomplish this task they
                                were able to make reference to specific cities, events,
                                characteristics of their native country, foods, etc. Since
                                respondents were made aware of the interviewer's shared
                                cultural perspectives, they became more confident that their message
                                would not be misunderstood. Affinity was established through the
                                interviewer spending time building up a knowledge of the community,
                                often through community agencies and groups. During the interviews,
                                the interviewer attempted to match the respondent's
                                conversational and interaction style, terminology and gestures
                                (although stopping short of mirroring exaggerated mannerisms which would probably appear
                                mocking and offensive). To enhance accuracy, interviewers made
                                themselves aware of basic language terms used by participants by
                                keeping a list of words and idiomatic expressions commonly used by
                                the group. A second researcher always validated the analysis so that
                                cultural stereotyping was avoided.
Keats (2000) suggests that some cultures would find the following
                                actions unacceptable:
Sending a woman to interview a man.Sending a man to interview a woman.Sending a person of one religion to interview a person of a
                                        different religion when factions from each are in
                                        conflict.Making direct rather than circuitous replies.Looking directly into a person's face when
                                        speaking.
With the spread of globalization, many people now live in
                                multicultural societies so it is more than likely that you will need
                                to address some of these multicultural issues in your own research.
                                For example, in a trade union setting, you might interview workers
                                who are first or second generation immigrants on themes such as
                                identity, job discrimination or racial harassment.



Group Interviews
So far we have assumed a one-to-one situation between an interviewer and
                            single respondent, but, of course, other combinations are possible.
                            Group interviews can comprise a number of different formats, including
                            multiple interviewers, joint interviews and focus groups. An advantage
                            of using group interviews is that costs can be drastically reduced,
                            while the chance of non-response is reduced to about zero. But a
                            drawback is that the social nature of responding may have an influence.
                            Furthermore, as Dillman (2007) reports, group interviews using a
                            questionnaire may invoke test-taking behaviour. He observed respondents
                            checking through questions after completing them and even changing their
                            answers.

Multiple Interviewers
It can be very useful to have more than one interviewer present since
                                different roles can be performed. For example, one interviewer can
                                act as chairperson, controlling the pace and direction of the
                                interview, while the other takes notes. At the end of the interview,
                                each researcher can compare thoughts and observations to ensure that
                                nothing has been missed.


Joint Interviews
Joint interviews involve one researcher talking with two people
                                simultaneously about one phenomenon. This can facilitate collecting
                                differing or corroborating perspectives of the one event. Having
                                both parties present can also allow for them to fill in details that
                                the other has omitted. Against this must be set the danger of
                                interviewees diverting each other's attention, or one
                                respondent dominating the interview.


Focus Groups
Focus groups originated in market research in the 1950s when people
                                were brought together so that their attitudes to new products could
                                be tested. Today, focus groups are still used for this purpose, but their popularity has
                                spread to wider aspects of research. They can be a low-cost way of
                                collecting data, but require a considerable amount of cooperation
                                and enthusiasm from participants. Focus groups are now such a useful
                                method of conducting interviews and collecting data that Chapter 18 is devoted them.
So far we have assumed that interviews can be successfully conducted
                                either in an unstructured manner or through the use of various types
                                of questionnaires or interview schedules. However, there may be some
                                special groups for which these techniques will either be
                                inappropriate or entirely ineffective. Case Study 15.2 provides an
                                illustration of some more creative and imaginative approaches.

Top Tip 15.7
When running a focus group, be prepared for unexpected comments
                                    and even the expression of views you find unhelpful or even
                                    distasteful. Do not get drawn into expressing your own opinion.
                                    You are there to facilitate the session and elicit the views of
                                    others. Remain as calm and as neutral as possible. Welcome the
                                    expression of all opinions and keep the digital recorder
                                    running!



Focus Group Checklist




Case Study 15.2

Interviewing About 'Engaging'
                                        Brands
Organizations are increasingly seeking to strengthen customer
                                        participation and engagement with their brands. One element
                                        of this is 'customer brand engagement' (CBE) a
                                        concept that Hollebeek (2011) sought to clarify the nature
                                        and dynamics of customers' engagement with focal
                                        brands. To address this the following research question was
                                        devised: How is customer brand engagement conceptualized,
                                        and which are its key themes?
According to the literature, the key CBE conceptual
                                        relationships are brand attitude, brand image, brand
                                        identity, brand personality and brand experience. For the
                                        study, participants were recruited through advertisements
                                        posted on community notice boards in a large city in New
                                        Zealand. A total of 14 respondents were recruited, with an
                                        even split between male and female participants and an age
                                        span of between 20 and 68 years. Eight interviews were
                                        conducted, each of them lasting about 45 minutes, and one
                                        focus group (with six participants) which lasted about 80
                                        minutes. The data were audio-recorded and later transcribed
                                        by the researcher.
The study started by the researcher asking respondents to
                                        self-select a brand in any category they felt to be
                                        'highly engaging'. They were then asked to
                                        identify the brands that they purchased regularly, and had
                                        purchased in the last month, yet with which they did not
                                        engage at all. This allowed comparison across
                                        'highly' and 'non-engage'
                                        brands. Probing was used to elicit additional levels of
                                        detail where necessary. Specific probing questions included:
                                        'How does engaging with your chosen brand feel to
                                        you?' and 'What are your thoughts/actions when
                                        you are interacting with your selected brand?' Two
                                        respondents could not name a specific non-engaging brand but
                                        instead offered a non-engaging category: stationary and
                                        insurance.
Table 15.4 provides an
                                        example of some of Hollebeek's findings.
The findings showed that customer brand engagement themes
                                        emerged, namely: immersion, passion and activation,
                                        representing the degree to which a customer is prepared to
                                        exert cognitive, emotional and behavioural resources in
                                        specific interactions with a focal brand. Based on the
                                        analysis, immersion became defined as 'a
                                        customer's level of brand-related concentration in
                                        particular brand interactions'. Passion became
                                        defined as: 'the degree of a customer's
                                        positive brand-related affect in particular brand
                                        interactions'. Activation emerged as:
                                        'customers' level of energy, effort and/or
                                        time spent on a brand in particular
                                        interactions'.



I, interview; FG, focus
                                            group.



Source: Adapted from Hollebeek, 2011



Activity 15.5
Consider the following questions in relation to Case Study
                                    15.2:
What benefits did the researcher gain by transcribing
                                            her own audio-recordings?What benefits did the study gain by using both
                                            interviews and a focus group?




Using Telephone Interviews
We looked briefly at telephone interviews in Chapter
                                10 in the context of conducting telephone surveys. One of the
                            main advantages of conducting interviews by telephone is the low cost.
                            They also tend to be conducted more quickly, another important benefit.
                            However, research by Irvine (2011) suggests that compared to
                            face-to-face interviews, in telephone interviews respondents tend to
                            talk for shorter bursts of time, providing slightly less depth and
                            elaboration. A potential disadvantage of telephone interviews is the
                            fear that the refusal rate may be higher. Indeed, Vigderhous (1981)
                            lists a number of non-response outcomes (see Table
                                15.5).
Research by Vigderhous (1981) found that for telephone interviews,
                            response rates are better during the early evening between 6:00pm and
                            6:59pm, irrespective of the day of the week. The month is also
                            significant. Schedules in spring (March, April and May) and autumn
                            (September, October and November) are generally more successful than
                            summer or winter months. While a study using 250,000 diallings found no
                            significant difference between time, day or month, a somewhat cautionary
                            finding was that only 8 per cent of dialling attempts resulted in a
                            completed interview (Kerin and Peterson, 1983).



Adapted from Vegderhous, G. (1981)
                                'Scheduling telephone interviews: A study of seasonal
                                patterns', Public Opinion Quarterly, 45: 250-9.
                                Reproduced by kind permission of Oxford University Press.

Image 15.2
                                Telephone interviews - a traditional medium© iStock.com / Sharon Dominick
But whatever the time or month, interviewers will need to adopt a
                            professional telephone manner, especially to strike up a rapport. For a
                            long interview, it is usually best to make a preliminary call to set up
                            a time for the interview.
In terms of questions, all but the most complex kinds can be asked over
                            the telephone. Indeed, one of the strengths of telephone interviews over
                            questionnaires is that the interviewer can help respondents with any
                            misunderstandings or difficulties they have. Response rates can also be
                            raised if the interviewer has a slick, persuasive manner and can give
                            encouragement. Table 15.6 provides a summary of
                            the kinds of responses commonly given.

Using Skype For Interviews
Of course, in addition to telephone interviews you now have the
                                option of using Skype, which offers the benefit of video and audio
                                calls that are free of charge if the respondent is also on Skype.
                                For video calls you will, of course, need a web cam which may come
                                already installed in your computer or purchased as an add-on
                                facility. The quality of video feedback will depend, in part, on the
                                quality of web cam equipment being used and the data transfer rate
                                at both ends. For example, interviewing someone in a developing
                                country may suffer from glitches in picture and sound quality and
                                the occasional crashing of the system. That apart, using the visual
                                element of Skype offers the possibility of generating much better
                                inter-personal communication, the development of greater trust and,
                                as a result, more rounded and detailed responses than would have
                                been the case in just using a telephone.



Source: Adapted from Arksey and
                                    Knight, 1999

Of course, when interviewing (provided you have asked for and gained
                                permission), you will benefit from audio recording the session. For
                                Skype or when using a digital phone, you will need to download an
                                add-on or app. Take a look at the next Activity for some sites to
                                explore.



Active Listening



Activity 15.6
There are many products on the market that claim to be able to
                                    record telephone conversations. However, their quality is
                                    variable. Free apps tend to provide only a few minutes of
                                    playback, forcing you to purchase a 'Pro' version.
                                    However, this small amount of expenditure will yield benefits of
                                    being able to playback, transcribe and analyse the data. The two
                                    apps below, are typical:
TapeACall at: www.tapeacall.com. The Pro version of the app
                                            comes with a small price tag, but there are no
                                            additional costs.Call Recorder which can be downloaded from the iTunes
                                            app store. While the app itself is free, you will have
                                            to purchase 'virtual' coins to fund the
                                            phone calls.



Recording Skype Interviews





Employability Skill 15.6

Maintaining Focus
As we have seen, one of the objectives of telephone and Skype
                                        interviews is to encourage the respondent to speak. However,
                                        this does not mean you encourage them to ramble off the
                                        point. A skill is to encourage responses but at the same
                                        time maintain a focus.This can be achieved by active
                                        listening (are they answering the question posed?) and by
                                        posing new probes that bring the respondent back to the
                                        theme.





Interviewing In Businesses - Words Of Caution
In this chapter we have looked at some of the general principles of
                            interviewing. However, we need to offer some additional advice, and
                            caution, about conducting interviews in businesses. Here, promises of
                            confidentiality need to be treated with great seriousness, since
                            businesses may have concerns about divulging information that is
                            commercially sensitive. Businesses may also be concerned about revealing
                            information that might show them in a compromising light - for
                            example, discriminatory recruitment practices, flawed marketing
                            campaigns, risk-averse investment strategies. In gaining access to
                            business organizations to conduct interviews you need to:
Ensure that you have the support of a sponsor inside the
                                    organization. The sponsor needs to be sufficiently influential
                                    so that they can 'open doors' and gain the
                                    collaboration of other stakeholders, including those who will
                                    become interviewees.Offer to undertake a research subject that is of interest and
                                    use to the organization itself.Explain the purpose and objectives of your research clearly in a
                                    Participant Information Sheet (see Figure 15.3).Inform the organization about the aims of the study at an
                                        early stage. Employees will need time to organize
                                    their diaries if they are to be interviewed



Interviewing Checklist


Figure 15.3
                                Example of Participant Information Sheet


Ethical Issues
There are ethical considerations to take into account even before the
                            commencement of a study. Kvale and Brinkman (2008) argue that it should
                            be clear that there should be some beneficial consequences from the
                            study and the researcher should ask themselves: how can the study
                            contribute to enhancing the situation of the participating subject?
                            Certainly, no matter the type of interview used, the central ethical
                            issue surrounding data collection through interviews is that
                            participants should not be harmed or damaged in any way by the research.
                            If a respondent becomes anxious or upset during the course of an
                            interview, the session should be immediately abandoned. We have already
                            seen that confidentiality should be offered to respondents when
                            completing questionnaires, so, clearly, the same respect should be
                            afforded to those participating in interviews. Furthermore, interviewees
                            have the right not to answer individual questions or to terminate the
                            interview before its completion. It is also important that interviews
                            are not used as a devious means of selling something to the
                            respondent.
One of the problems is that, as Patton (2002) comments, effective
                            interviewing opens up the interviewees' thoughts, knowledge and
                            experience to both the interviewer, but also the interviewees
                            themselves. Hence, after a good interview, the interviewees know more
                            about themselves and their situation than they did before. This, in
                            itself, may be quite therapeutic (or not as the case may be), but the
                            purpose of research is to collect data, not to change people or
                            opinions. A key ethical consideration is that of informed
                            consent. In some countries, for example the USA, written consent is
                            required even when the research is small-scale or only involves
                            structured, closed-question interviews. An example of an informed
                            consent form is given in Figure 15.4.
Figure 15.4
                                Example of an informed consent formSource: Adapted from Arksey and
                                Knight, 1999
Having taken steps to ensure informed consent, what are the practical
                            considerations that help to ensure that an interview is ethically
                            conducted? Table 15.7 sets out some issues and
                            suggested ethical solutions.
Ethical issues might arise in any number of unexpected ways. For example,
                            in dealing with particularly difficult or sensitive topics, the
                            respondent might ask for practical guidance or advice. It should be
                            noted that the interviewer is not a counsellor, and should avoid being
                            drawn into this type of discussion. The proper course of action would be
                            to offer contact details for those kinds of organization that could
                            provide help. These would include advice bureaux, voluntary
                            organizations, support networks and telephone helplines.



Source: Adapted from Patton,
                                1990


Case Study 15.3

When The Interviewee Says 'No'
The author worked on a collaborative study on how small and
                                    medium-sized businesses win new business that included a survey
                                    of over 1,000 companies, six focus groups and 15 in-depth
                                    interviews. For the interviews, respondents were sent a letter
                                    that explained the background and purpose of the study and a
                                    consent form, similar to that in Figure 15.4. After each interview the author listened
                                    carefully to each audio file, and constructed a case study
                                    which, he believed, closely aligned with what the respondent had
                                    said. On completing the case, each one was sent to the
                                    respondent for checking, at which point they were permitted to
                                    make changes of fact or of emphasis. But one case contacted the
                                    author saying he was unhappy with the section on how his
                                    business handled procurement (bidding for contracts), because
                                    procurement organizations might see the case and his comments.
                                    The author removed the 'offending' paragraph and
                                    returned it to the director for approval. A day later he emailed
                                    to say he had discussed their involvement in the study with his
                                    co-director and they had decided to pull out of the study. What
                                    happened next? The case was withdrawn from the study (of
                                    course!) and the researcher contacted the respondent to inform
                                    him of this and to thank him for his time and involvement.



Activity 15.7
Taking Case Study 15.3, why would it have been wrong for the
                                researcher to have contacted the respondent and asked them to
                                'think again' about withdrawing from the study?




Summary
Interviews can be divided into six categories ranging from the
                                    informal conversational to the completely structured.The choice of approach will depend on the objectives of the
                                    research, with structured interviews eliciting more quantitative
                                    data and unstructured, qualitative.The danger of bias in interviews stems not only from the type of
                                    questions asked but the way in which they are articulated by the
                                    interviewer.Interviewing is a skill and includes the ability to build
                                    rapport with respondents while maintaining detachment, and
                                    observing and listening in order to keep control of the
                                    interview.Conducting successful interviews in organizations means gaining
                                    access to an organizational sponsor who has sufficient seniority
                                    and influence to 'get you in'.Ethical issues are of paramount importance since confidentiality
                                    may be more difficult to maintain than in other forms of data
                                    gathering, such as postal questionnaires.

Review Questions
When conducting an interview, suggest at least three ways in
                                        which rapport can be established at an early stage.Is it best to prepare probing questions in advance or to be
                                        spontaneous?To transcribe or not to transcribe. What is your view and
                                        why?If a respondent becomes visibly upset during an interview,
                                        what should your first response be?For long distance interviews, which would be your
                                        preference, telephone or Skype, and why?



Further Reading
Arksey, H. and Knight, P. (1999) Interviewing for Social
                                Scientists. London: Sage. Easy to read, but detailed and
                            comprehensive. This book shows how to design an interview study and
                            provides essential advice on how to conduct a successful interview.
Brinkman, S. and Kvale, S. (2015) InterViews: Learning the Craft of
                                Qualitative Research Interviewing, 3rd edn. Thousand Oaks, CA:
                            Sage. Provides the 'hows and whys' of interviewing
                            including a chapter on the ethical conduct of interviews.
Keats, D.M. (2000) Interviewing: A Practical Guide for Students and
                                Professionals. Buckingham: Open University Press. A simple but
                            practical guide to interviewing skills that includes the structure of
                            interviews, interpreting responses, and chapters on interviewing
                            children, adolescents, the aged and people with disabilities.
King, N. and Horrocks, C. (2010) Interviews in Qualitative
                                Research. London: Sage. As well as offering guidance on
                            designing and conducting interviews, this book also looks at the
                            epistemology and ethics of interviewing.
Kvale, S. and Brinkmann, S. (2008) Interviews: Learning the Craft of
                                Qualitative Research Interviewing, 2nd edn. Thousand Oaks, CA:
                            Sage. Deals with the 'hows' and 'whys' of
                            research interviewing, with
                            the new edition containing a discussion of new developments in
                            qualitative interviewing including conversational and narrative
                            analysis.
Roulston, K. (2010) Reflective Interviewing: A Guide to Theory and
                                Practice. London: Sage. As the title implies, a book that
                            provides a useful blend of theory and practice. Includes chapters on
                            writing interview questions and designing studies that use
                            interviews.
Seidman, I. (2013) Interviewing as Qualitative Research: A Guide for
                                Researchers in Education and the Social Sciences, 4th edn. New
                            York: Teachers College Press. Covers interviewing from a
                            phenomenological perspective, the ethics of qualitative interviewing and
                            the relationship between data gathering and analysis.


Journal Resources
Granot, E., Brashear, T.G. and Motta, P.C. (2012) 'A structural
                            guide to in-depth interviewing in business and industrial marketing
                            research', Journal of Business & Industrial
                                Marketing, 27(7): 547-553. Presents a structural guide
                            for data collection in a participant-oriented, business-to-business
                            context.
Jepsen, D.M. and Rodwell, J.J. (2008) 'Convergent interviewing: a
                            qualitative diagnostic technique for researchers', Management
                                Research News, 31(9): 650-658. Introduces the convergent
                            interviewing technique and describes the method of selecting the
                            interview subjects.
Rowley, J. (2012) 'Conducting research interviews',
                                Management Research Review, 35(3-4): 260-271.
                            Covers three areas: designing and planning interviews, conducting
                            interviews, and making sense of interview data. Within these sections,
                            11 questions often asked by novice researchers are posed and
                            answered.


Suggested Answers For Activity 15.2
While the response does offer factual information, the question is
                            probing for the respondent's feelings, and so the response
                            received is inappropriate.

Don't forget to visit the companion website at https://study.sagepub.com/grayresearchbusiness for the
                                following resources which support this chapter:

















16 Non-Participant Observation

Chapter Introduction

Chapter Outline
Approaches to observationGathering and recording observational dataThe process of observationValidity and reliability issuesPresenting observational dataEthical issues in observational studies


Keywords
Overt observationCovert observationField notesNon-participant observationStructured observationObservation schedule



Icon Key







Author Video







Chapter Objectives
After reading this chapter you will be able to:
Describe some of the advantages and disadvantages of the
                                        structured observational approach.Select a structured observational approach appropriate to a
                                        given research objective.Analyse and interpret observational data.Produce observational data that are valid and reliable.Use structured observational methods in an ethical
                                        manner.



Observational Research





Observation (especially if informed by ethnographic principles -
                            see Chapter 17) can involve a deep and
                            often long-term engagement in the field of study. Indeed, some
                            researchers can become so close to their subjects that the fact that
                            they were researchers was sometimes forgotten (at least for a time,
                            until they attempted to disengage from the field and end the study).
                            While a wide variety of data gathering tools can be used in participant
                            observation, field notes are common and typical because they allow for
                            the documenting of speech, observations and also personal reflections.
                            In non-participant observation, however, the researcher aims to maintain
                            a position of detachment and independence from subjects, keeping a
                            physical and emotional distance from the group, business, or community
                            they are researching. Achieving this detachment, however, is easy to
                            espouse but much harder to do in practice.



Non-participant Observation


McBurney and White (2009) distinguish between participant and
                            naturalistic (non-participant) observation. Naturalistic observation is
                            conducted in such a way that the subjects' behaviour is disturbed
                            as little as possible by the observation process. Another term for
                            naturalistic research is non-reactive research. This term suggests that
                            the researcher strives not to bias or influence behaviour or responses
                            by their own presence. An essential ingredient of non-participatory
                            observation is careful record keeping (McBurney and White, 2009),
                            particularly the use of checklists or observational schedules to note
                            behaviour. Sometimes behaviour might be recorded using audio or visual
                            media. But in non-participation observation, both structured and
                            unstructured approaches to data gathering are common.
Image 16.1
                                Observational research from a physically distant vantage point© iStock.com / Mike_Sheridan
Observation is not simply a
                            question of looking at something and then noting down 'the
                            facts'. Observation is a complex combination of sensation (sight,
                            sound, touch, smell and even taste) and perception, through which we
                            develop schemas, the mental structures we use to organize and simplify
                            our knowledge of the world around us. They affect what we notice, how we
                            interpret things and how we make decisions and act. We use them to
                            classify things, such as when we 'pigeon-hole' people.
                            They also help us forecast, predicting what will happen. We maintain our
                            view of the world (and ourselves) by selective attention to information
                            that confirms our schemas and by selective inattention to information
                            that disconfirms our schemas. Hence, a ringing sound in the office might
                            be a telephone or the fire alarm! On hearing such a sound, we would have
                            to use some experience from the past as a guide to interpreting it, and
                            to give it meaning as a guide to action.
The interpretation of 'meaning' is one of the benefits but
                            also potentially one of the drawbacks of the observation method. On the
                            positive side, observation provides an opportunity to get beyond
                            people's opinions and self-interpretations of their attitudes and
                            behaviours, towards an evaluation of their actions in practice. For
                            example, we might ask people their views about working with the opposite
                            sex and find that, through a questionnaire and a set of interviews, most
                            state that they find this constructive and rewarding. A researcher,
                            however, spends a month in the organization listening to conversations
                            and observing behaviour and finds barely concealed hostility and
                            'backbiting' among a significant proportion of male
                            shopfloor workers against their female counterparts. You may have noted
                            that eavesdropping in this way raises many ethical questions. The ethics
                            of observation will be discussed later in this chapter.
As we shall see, one of the drawbacks of observation is that the
                            interpretation of what is observed may be influenced by the mental
                            constructs of the researcher (including their values, motivations,
                            prejudices and emotions). We often 'see' what we want to
                            see and disregard other phenomena that could prove important. Secondly,
                            if stationed among those who are being observed, the researcher may
                            begin actually to influence events. Furthermore, while the data gathered
                            from observation are often rich in evidence, extracting themes and
                            concepts from the data can be quite challenging.
The observational method is often associated with ethnographic
                            methodology in that it studies people in their natural settings or
                            'fields'. Ethnography, however, can also entail the use of
                            other methods such as in-depth interviewing, and the analysis of
                            personal documents. Ethnography and participant observation are
                            discussed in detail in Chapter 17. In this chapter we will
                            focus on non-participation observation.


Approaches To Observation
Observation involves the systematic viewing of people's actions
                            and the recording, analysis and interpretation of their behaviour.
                            Saunders et al. (2012) differentiate between participant and structured
                            observation. Participant observation is largely qualitative and
                            emphasizes the meanings that people give to their actions, while
                            structured observation is largely quantitative and focuses on the
                            frequency of their actions. Mintzberg (1970) refers to structured
                            observation as a methodology that combines the flexibility of open-ended
                            observation with the discipline of seeking certain types of structured
                            data. Within each of these categories the researcher can either collect
                            the data covertly by hiding their identity, or collect the data overtly
                            (see Figure 16.1).
Figure 16.1
                                Observation research roles

Overt And Covert Observation
Overt observation is where those being observed are aware that the
                                observation is taking place. For example, a health and safety
                                inspector might be brought onto a building project to investigate
                                why there has been a sharp rise in accidents. The
                                researcher's presence would be made clear to everyone and
                                their cooperation requested. By contrast, covert observation is
                                where they are unaware of this. One of the arguments in favour of
                                covert observation is that people may change their behaviour when
                                they know they are being observed, thus threatening the validity of
                                the results. The problem with covert observation, of course, is that
                                it can be construed as unethical. Consider your own feelings
                                - how would you feel if you discovered that someone, perhaps
                                in your own organization, and, say, with the approval of management,
                                had been observing you performing some element of your work. Douglas
                                (1976), however, considers it legitimate to conduct covert
                                observations since people try to obscure the truth through
                                misinformation, evasions, lies and 'fronts'. In
                                practice, the extent to which participants in a research project are
                                informed that they are being observed ranges from full disclosure to
                                no disclosure at all, with many projects somewhere in the middle. As
                                Berg (2006) comments, some subjects are so sensitive that it might
                                be impossible to carry out research by any other means. It is worth
                                noting that most communication within organizations today takes
                                place via email and that all these messages are stored and can be
                                analysed. The laws on how this is done, and what consequences
                                result, vary between countries, but, in a sense, covert observation
                                is now part of our everyday lives. If covert observation is
                                undertaken, it is essential that confidentiality is still respected.
                                Hence, the names and locations of those being observed should not be
                                revealed to any sponsor of the research. Case Study 16.1 provides an
                                illustration of how covert observation can produce unexpected
                                findings. Note that the case study is also an example of
                                non-participant observation.



Observation - Overt and Covert




Case Study 16.1

How Smart Is Covert Observation?
A company running a Holiday Village has just introduced a
                                        smart card for its customers so that the customer can:
Check in on arrival using the smart card without
                                                having to get out of the car.Pre-book facilities such as bicycle hire and the
                                                hire of tennis courts.Open their lodge door.Use the card instead of making credit card or cash
                                                transactions.
A covert non-participant researcher with knowledge and
                                        expertise in smart card technology enters the Village as a
                                        'guest' to observe the 'customer
                                        experience' in using the cards. As a covert observer
                                        she is able to note some of the problems guests experience
                                        with the system, including:
A tennis court booking system that does not use real
                                                time updating, thus allowing double booking.Aspects of the system failing to be fully functional
                                                when the volume of customers exceeds capacity.
The full interpretation of systems failures depends on the
                                        researcher's knowledge of computer systems and, at
                                        times, her ability to phrase questions that are deemed as
                                        acceptable coming from a fellow customer.


Source: Slack, F. and Rowley, J. (2001)
                                        'Observation: Perspectives on research methodologies
                                        for leisure managers', Management Research
                                            News, 24(1/2): 35-42. Reprinted by kind
                                        permission of Emerald Publishing



Activity 16.1
Examine Case Study 16.1. Is covert observation justified here?
                                    Could the study have been conducted using overt observation with
                                    the same success?
Suggested answers are provided at the end of the chapter.




Gathering And Recording Observational Data
Before examining how researchers can gather observational data, we should
                            first ask: what actually constitutes data? Burgess (1984) provides a
                            list of potential data sources (see Table
                                16.1). Any of these data features could be followed up by more
                            focused questions dealing with each area in more detail. While there are
                            a variety of ways in which observational data are collected, two of the
                            most widely used are the writing of field notes and the use of more
                            structured data collection methods.



Adapted from Burgess, R.G. (1984) In the
                                    Field: An Introduction to Field Research. London: Routledge.
                                Reprinted by kind permission of the Taylor & Francis
                                Group.


Making Field Notes
Taking field notes is an important process whether the approach
                                comprises the use of non-participant observation (as in this
                                chapter) or participant observation and ethnography (Chapter 17). In both cases
                                similar processes may be followed. However, in the case of
                                ethnography, the volume of data may be more extensive as engagement
                                in the field is generally longer. While ethnographers will almost
                                certainly keep comprehensive field notes, they will tend to eschew
                                the kinds of quantitative data gathering of structured observation.
                                Non-participant observation studies may use field notes, structured
                                observation methods or both. However, the style of notes created by
                                non-participant and participant (particularly ethnographic) methods
                                may contain subtle differences. As we shall see in Chapter 17, ethnographic field
                                notes are likely to include the actions and reflections of the
                                researcher.



Field Notes and Memos


According to Bailey, field notes are 'the backbone of
                                collecting and analyzing field data' (2007: 80). They are
                                absolutely essential to the success of fieldwork, and comprise
                                everything the fieldworker believes to be of importance. The danger
                                of taking field notes is to fail to note a situation in the belief
                                that it will always be recalled at a later date. The field
                                researcher should guard against this kind of optimism. In general,
                                field notes should be written up immediately following the
                                observation. Bailey (2007) suggests that field notes develop out of
                                an analytic process. First, the researcher must attempt to mentally
                                capture and remember as much detail as possible: who was in the
                                field setting, what did they look like, what did they say, how did
                                you feel about them, etc. These constitute mental notes, which can
                                be recalled later to aid the production of jotted notes. Jotted
                                notes comprise observations taken in the field that act as a kind of
                                    aide-mémoire for the later production of more
                                comprehensive field notes, of which there are several components (as
                                illustrated in Figure 16.2):
Primary observation - chronological log: Raw
                                        data (i.e., no explanations or analysis) of observations on
                                        people, their surroundings, behaviours and conversations.
                                        Each set of field notes is dated and the time of occurrence
                                        noted. It is important to distinguish between actual
                                        verbatim quotations and approximate recall of conversations.
                                        You could, for example, put all real quotations in quotation
                                        marks and leave the general paraphrasing of conversations
                                        without such quotations.Reflection and recall: Some of these will be
                                        stimulated from jotted notes and some recalled during the
                                        process of writing up field notes. Sometimes objects or
                                        events do not seem important at the time but are then
                                        recalled when they occur again.Pre-analysis data - ideas and inferences:
                                        Themes and insights may start to emerge. Do not try to
                                        censor yourself at this stage, but write down anything that
                                        occurs to you - even when in the field. Indeed,
                                        Burgess (1984) advises the use of wide margins for field
                                        notes so that there is space to add preliminary categories.
                                        Make sure that a distinction is maintained between
                                        observational and analytical notes, even though they may be
                                        written at virtually the same time.Experiential data - impressions and
                                            personal feelings: These can often be a useful
                                        source of analytic insights at a later stage. So write down
                                        everything you can think of, including your feelings about
                                        events, people, conversations and your interpretations of
                                        your emotional reactions. These kinds of notes might be kept
                                        in the form of a diary.Forward planning: This might involve planning to
                                        revisit the field to collect missing data or to plan the
                                        next stage of the research project.
Once the field notes are completed, they can be written up along with
                                any visual media that have been collected, such as photographs or
                                audio tapes, and held as a permanent record. Burgess (1984) also
                                recommends the drawing of diagrams to show, for example, the
                                arrangements of furniture and people's sitting positions
                                (especially for the recording of groups). Even at this stage,
                                people, events or instances might be recalled that did not appear in
                                the field notes, but which can now be recorded. This permanent
                                written record (Figure 16.2) provides the basis
                                for the primary analysis of the data.
Figure 16.2
                                    The data gathering processAdapted from Ellen, R.F. (ed.) (1987)
                                        Ethnographic Research: A Guide to General Conduct.
                                    London: Academic Press.



Field Notes


What do field notes actually look like? Obviously, there are no rigid
                                rules that define the answer. But it should be noted that too much
                                data is better than too little. It is also usually far from clear
                                when in the field as to which data are going to be relevant and
                                which of little value. Hence, try to be as comprehensive as
                                possible. Like all note-taking, the way in which field notes are
                                written up will depend on the researcher. Some wait until they have
                                left the observational setting and write up their notes immediately.
                                Others make cryptic notes during the observation and translate these
                                later into field notes, usually as a computer file. In terms of
                                content, field notes should contain:
Key quotations, reproduced verbatim.Details of the physical appearance of inhabitants: gender,
                                        height, physical build, age, ethnicity, clothes, style of
                                        hair, appearance of jewellery, etc.Observation of verbal behaviours such as the verbatim text
                                        of conversations, the characteristics of the speech and the
                                        speaker (use of slang or technical language); who does most
                                        of the talking and whose suggestions are followed and whose
                                        ignored; who interrupts and who does not; the tone of the
                                        conversation (polite, bored, hostile, formal, indifferent,
                                        etc.).Observation of non-verbal behaviours such as body language
                                        - facial expressions, body posture (arms folded in
                                        front is usually a defensive posture), how they move
                                        (confident or diffident?), length and frequency of eye
                                        contact.The time of events and activities.The alteration of names and places to assist in the
                                        promotion of confidentiality (but a list of pseudonyms
                                        should be kept so the same name can be allocated to each
                                        term used).The researcher's views and feelings at the time of
                                        the observation.
In making field notes, Berg (2006) also suggests that the
                                researcher:
Records key words and phrases while in the field.Makes notes about the sequence of events.Limits the time spent in the field, since every hour will
                                        take 4 hours to write up (at least).Writes up full notes immediately on exiting the field. It is
                                        not worth undertaking any further observation until this is
                                        done.
The reproduction of field notes can be accomplished quite simply
                                using a word processing program. Alternatively, you might consider
                                using a specifically designed software program that provides
                                facilities for data storage and later content analysis. These days,
                                many people will simply type notes directly into a tablet computer
                                because they are small enough to be discrete.
Having described in some detail the process of observing and writing
                                up field notes, it is worth heeding deLaine's (2000) words of
                                caution. She argues that in producing field notes, the researcher
                                brings personal meaning to the account created. In other words,
                                field notes are not 'raw data' in the simple sense,
                                but details that are sieved from all the possible data through the
                                researcher's mental constructs, understandings and
                                interpretations. An (abridged) example of the author's field
                                notes from a research project are presented in Figure
                                    16.3. Note the attempt to capture key quotations, details of
                                physical appearance of participants at the meeting, observations of
                                behaviours and the researcher's own reflective thoughts.

Activity 16.2
Examine the notes in Figure 16.3. Are they
                                    sufficiently detailed to give you an accurate picture of the
                                    event? How useful are the Reflective Comments of the researcher?
                                    What do they reveal about the researcher's own stance
                                    towards the subject being discussed? Might these views bias what
                                    the researcher observes and records?


Top Tip 16.1
In making field notes, try to suspend your natural judgements as
                                    to what is appropriate to note and what is inappropriate. This
                                    is because what is relevant only becomes transparent during the
                                    transcription and analysis process. So note down as much as
                                    possible.



Top Tip: Workplace Shadowing





Figure 16.3
                                    Field notes and reflective comments of researcher. (*Note
                                    that location and people are anonymous here for reasons of
                                    confidentiality.)

Activity 16.3
Go to your workplace (if you have one) or your educational
                                    institution and spend ten minutes observing people in action,
                                    and listening to their conversations. During the observation
                                    make as comprehensive a set of field notes as you can, and write
                                    these up as soon as is practicable. Examine your completed field
                                        notes. Do they
                                    accurately reflect what you observed? What was the ratio between
                                    time observing and time taken to write up? Note, you may need to
                                    get ethical permission for this activity if you are undertaking
                                    research as part of an academic programme.



Structured Observation
Structured observation aims to observe and record behaviour in a
                                holistic and systematic way, usually making use of an observation
                                guide or coding schedule. Given that the coding schedule often has
                                to be constructed, some researchers may enter the field and conduct
                                unstructured observation first, in order to develop the right
                                categories for the observation guide. To minimize bias, the observer
                                seeks to be as unobtrusive as possible, so that subjects are either
                                unaware of his or her presence, or at least feel at ease in carrying
                                out their activities. Whether the observation is being conducted by
                                the researcher, or by other individuals or research teams, training
                                is often undertaken as the process of observing and noting specific
                                behaviours is often complex and demanding.



Structured Observation



The Advantages And Drawbacks Of Structured
                                    Observation
In contrast to the use of field notes, structured observation is
                                    more quantitative in nature. A typical example in the workplace
                                    would be a time-and-motion study where someone is observed
                                    performing a task and their actions noted on a pre-designed pro
                                    forma. Structured observation has a number of distinct
                                    advantages:
It should result in more reliable data because the
                                            results can be replicated either by the same researcher
                                            at a different time, or by other researchers.It allows data to be collected at the time they occur
                                            and does not have to rely on the recall of participants
                                            or their interpretation of events.It collects data that participants themselves may not
                                            realize are important.
Against this must be set the disadvantages that:
The researcher must be at the place where the events are
                                            occurring and at the appropriate time.Only overt actions can be observed, from which often
                                            subtle inferences have to be made.The coding schedule might impose an irrelevant framework
                                            on what is being observed.As Mintzberg (1970) comments, it is often difficult to
                                            categorize observations. In his study of managerial
                                            work, for example, he raises a number of examples. In
                                            coding a meeting called to resolve a conflict between
                                            two manufacturing executives, does he code this under
                                            'manufacturing' or under
                                            'personnel'? There is also the problem of
                                            'double-talk'. Hence, a manager might give
                                            one type of information ('I'm holding the
                                            meeting even though you cannot be there') may
                                            actually be conveying quite a different message
                                            ('I don't want you at the
                                            meeting').


Constructing Coding Schedules
Coding schedules are structured schemes using pre-determined
                                    categories for recording observable events. They range from
                                    quite simple approaches, such as a system based upon time, to
                                    quite complex event systems. Robson (2002) suggests that before
                                    a coding schedule is
                                    selected, the first phase of a structured observation approach
                                    will be an exploratory one, often using other techniques such as
                                    interviews or questionnaires.
Coding schedules can be developed by the researcher (an onerous
                                    task) or use made of existing schedules. A common time scheme,
                                    the Flanders interaction analysis (IA) system, has been widely
                                    used in educational research for many years to illustrate the
                                    interaction between teachers and pupils. In Table
                                        16.2 the Flanders system has been adapted for a
                                    situation where interaction is taking place between work-based
                                    employees. This could be on the basis of peer group interaction,
                                    for example, a project team working on the development of a new
                                    software system, or a manager-subordinate interaction. Table 16.2 provides an
                                    example of the latter.
In using the Flanders system an interval coding system is used
                                    where a code is selected for every three seconds of interaction.
                                        Figure 16.4 illustrates a
                                    typical coding sheet, showing that, so far, three minutes of
                                    interaction have been logged, with a code number noted for every
                                    three seconds. In the first minute, it can be seen that most of
                                    the conversation is led by the manager either making comments
                                    (5) or giving directions (6). In the third minute, the manager
                                    asks a question (4), the subordinate responds (8), and the
                                    manager criticizes this response (7).
The Flanders interaction analysis system is an example of an
                                    interval coding scheme since data are collected at
                                    pre-determined time periods. Other categories of coding scheme
                                    include event coding when a tally is made only when an event
                                    occurs. Figure 16.5 illustrates
                                    alternative ways in which this can be done. In (a) we have a
                                    simple array of events labelled 1 to 3. When each event occurs,
                                    it is tallied. Hence, we can see that event 2 occurred more
                                    frequently than event 3. Knowing the number of times an event
                                    occurred is often enough. In (b) the sequence record gives us
                                    not only how often an event occurred, but the sequence of
                                    events. This can often be more useful at the analysis stage than
                                    knowing the simple frequency. The sequence record on timescale
                                    (c) adds a further layer of detail, showing not only how often
                                    events occurred and their frequency, but also the time intervals
                                    between these events.


Source: Adapted from
                                        Flanders, 1970: 34

Figure
                                            16.4 Analysis of dialogue between manager and
                                        subordinate using the Flanders interaction analysis
                                        system
Figure
                                            16.5 Alternative ways of event coding

Case Study 16.2

Using Structured Observation
In a classic study, Mintzberg (1970) describes a
                                            structured observation approach to identify the work
                                            role of the typical manager. In doing this, he used
                                            three data gathering methods: a chronology
                                            record, a mail record and a contact
                                                record. In the chronology records, times and
                                            basic activities were noted and cross-referenced with
                                            the other two records. An abbreviated version of each of
                                            the three records is provided below.




The chronology record provided a basic overview of the
                                            entire working day and showed at a glance the
                                            distribution of telephone calls, scheduled and
                                            unscheduled meetings, tours (informal wanderings around
                                            the workplace) and desk work. The mail record logs the
                                            nature of the mail received (today this would probably
                                            be mostly emails as well as some paper-based
                                            communications) and what was done with it.



Finally, the contact record provides details of meetings,
                                            telephone calls and tours. IC stands for 'instant
                                            communication', that is, current information was
                                            transmitted quickly. If the terms used appear somewhat
                                            strange, this was because they were chosen at the time
                                            of the observation. Later, the number of categories was
                                            reduced and some categories renamed.



After five weeks, the data on each manager were
                                            consolidated into one table for comparison. Hence, it
                                            was possible to deduce the proportion of managerial time
                                            devoted to meetings, desk work, tours and phone calls,
                                            as well as looking at variations between
                                            individuals.


Source: Mintzberg, H. (1970) 'Structured
                                            observation as a method to study managerial
                                            work', Journal of Management Studies,
                                            7(1): 87-104. Tables reprinted by kind permission
                                            of John Wiley and Sons.




The following
                                    Employability Skill also involves structured observation but
                                    this time in the context of job shadowing.

Employability Skill 16.1

Observation In Job Shadowing
Take a look at the Job Shadowing Observation Form below.
                                            Is it 'fit for purpose'? Are there any
                                            work-related activities that you would add to the
                                            form?


Job Shadowing Observation Form
Expectations:
Confirm your appointment the day before your
                                                  visit by calling your host.Bring your own pen and this form to record
                                                  responses.Dress appropriately for the job site.Arrive and leave on time.Speak clearly, make eye contact, and listen
                                                  thoroughly.
Student Name:
                                            ______________________________________________________________________________
What career are you planning to shadow?
                                            _________________________________________________________
Organization/Company Name:
                                            _________________________________________________________________
Phone:_______________________________________ City:
                                            ________________________________________
Job Shadow Supervisor Name & Title:
                                            _________________________________________________________


Observation Checklist
During the job shadow period, for each hour, tally each
                                            time the person you are shadowing performs each
                                            activity.



Additional
                                                observations:
                                            ______________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________________
Learning and reflection
What did you learn about the job?
_____________________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________________
Did anything surprise you about the job?
_____________________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________________
What did you learn about yourself?
_____________________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________________
After this, would you consider this job as a career
                                            choice? Explain your reasons.
_____________________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________________






The Process Of Observation

Training Observers
The process of conducting structured observation can be quite complex
                                and demanding. Hence, it should come as no surprise that when a
                                number of observers are used for a study, training is often
                                essential. This is important not just because people will be
                                expected to carry out the observational task competently. It is also
                                important to achieve as high a degree of validity and reliability as
                                possible (see validity and reliability issues below). Particularly
                                where a large number of coding categories are used, observers will
                                need to memorize the code
                                numbers so well that, in the field, they can note down the code
                                while simultaneously observing the behaviours occurring in front of
                                them (Jungermann, Hahn and Ferger, 1981). Martinko and Gardner
                                (1990), for example, describe their study which used 41 observers.
                                All were required to attend a two-day training session in which the
                                trainee's ratings were compared to a standardized set of
                                ratings developed by the researchers. Only those trainees whose
                                overall agreement with the standardized coding reached at least 85
                                per cent, were allowed to proceed as observers. McKenzie (2006) also
                                advises that observers need to visit the target areas they are going
                                to observe and practise coding.
In constructing an observational schedule, it makes sense if you can
                                make use of experts or experienced people who have an insight or
                                experience in the theme or context being researched. For example, in
                                conducting a structured observation of the operations in a large,
                                distribution warehouse, it might help to elicit the advice of the
                                logistics manager to provide insights into the kind of themes that
                                are worthy of observation.


Deciding On What To Observe
It is impossible to observe everything that takes place in a
                                situation, so it helps if the researcher is able to partition
                                activities to focus on key areas. For example, in researching
                                customer behaviour at an international airport, the researcher might
                                select particular locations or sub-groups of customers for study.
                                Observation might be conducted by personally mingling with the
                                subjects, but, equally, might occur through filming or videoing
                                activities or viewing the results of closed circuit television
                                monitoring. If the observation is 'live', Berg (2006)
                                suggests some strategies for collecting data:
Take in the physical setting by visiting the environment
                                        that people will be observed in. This allows an opportunity
                                        to get acquainted with the activities of the target group,
                                        and draw up first impressions and points of reference.Develop relationships with inhabitants. We have seen that
                                        guides may help here, but whether they are available or not,
                                        it is important to strike up a rapport with the inhabitants.
                                        If the observation is announced, it is sensible to provide a
                                        brief description of the purpose of the research, but it is
                                        best to avoid technical details. It is also wise to provide
                                        assurances of confidentiality at an early stage, and perhaps
                                        to possess a letter of introduction supporting the project.
                                        A key objective will be to quickly establish relations
                                        beyond those with the guides.Track, observe, eavesdrop and ask questions. Tracking
                                        comprises following guides around their daily tasks, and
                                        watching their activities and interactions with others.
                                        Eavesdropping can offer opportunities for picking up vital
                                        new data, but one problem may be understanding the language
                                        used, especially if the information is couched in the jargon
                                        or technical language of the organization, location or
                                        neighbourhood.Locate sub-groups and 'stars'. Sub-groups may
                                        exist on the basis of personal relationships, job roles, or
                                        mutual interests, and may contain central figures or stars.
                                        Locating stars and establishing good relationships with them
                                        may be important in opening doors and soliciting the
                                        cooperation of the group. However, as Patton (2002) points
                                        out, organizations may be rife with political conflicts
                                        between various groups and sub-groups. This may sometimes
                                        lead to a group trying to align itself with the researcher
                                        as part of its conflict with other groups.
But it is not just a question of how to conduct an observation but
                                what to observe. Table 16.6 offers some
                                suggestions.



Source: Adapted from Bailey,
                                    2007

You will probably have noted when looking at Table
                                    16.6 that a considerable amount of observation also includes
                                interpretation. If, for example, you notice a particularly high
                                specification desktop computer, you might assume that the person
                                sitting behind it was of a high status. But there again, you might
                                be entirely wrong. The owner might be off sick and the person
                                sitting at the desk, a temporary worker. The next Case Study
                                illustrates this point.

Case Study 16.3

The Impact Of Gaudy Colours
A researcher conducted some non-participant observational
                                        research in a home for elderly people. One of her strong
                                        initial impressions was the paint-work - lots of
                                        strong colours such as red, black and orange. She found the
                                        colours gaudy and reported in her field notes that they made
                                        her feel 'jumpy'. However, as she spent some
                                        time in the home she learned that the ageing process means
                                        that we become less able to distinguish softer colours.
                                        Hence, the bright colours were needed by the elderly
                                        residents for them to be able to see and enjoy them. When
                                        interviewed, the residents stated that they liked the
                                        colours. The researcher was able to reflect that it is
                                        important not to base interpretations only on her own
                                        reactions to phenomena.


Source: Adapted from Bailey, 2007




Activity 16.4
Carry out a small-scale exercise with a fellow researcher. Select
                                    a place to conduct non-participant observation. It could be a
                                    restaurant, library, park, etc. Spend about 20 minutes during
                                    which time you both take field notes using the criteria in
                                    Tables 16.1 and 16.6. Leave the field setting and complete your
                                    field notes. Working independently, begin to interpret your
                                    notes. When you are both ready, compare your interpretations.
                                    How similar are they? What do you disagree about? What has
                                    caused this difference in interpretation? Is either of you
                                    willing to re-interpret your data on the basis of the
                                    discussion? What evidence would you base this re-interpretation
                                    on?



Observing Non-Interactive Data Sources: Unobtrusive
                                Measures
So far, we have discussed non-participant observation in the context
                                of social settings such as workplaces and communities with
                                observation mainly focused on interactions between people. However,
                                as we shall see in more detail in Chapter
                                    19, researchers can also observe what are called unobtrusive
                                measures, non-reactive sources which do not involve human
                                interaction. Unobtrusive measures include outcroppings, documents
                                and folktales.



Continuous Observations Dataset



Outcroppings
Outcropping is a geological term referring to a portion of
                                    bedrock that has become exposed on the surface, that is,
                                    something that protrudes or sticks out (Fetterman, 2010).
                                    Outcroppings in urban contexts include high rise buildings,
                                    graffiti on the station walls, litter and the hypodermic syringe
                                    lying on the pavement. The researcher can make judgements about
                                    the relative wealth of an area by observing these outcroppings.
                                    But making assumptions based on this kind of evidence can be
                                    dangerous. So, for example, the reception area of a large
                                    financial institution might contain a magnificent sculpture
                                    costing several million pounds, suggesting a successful
                                    organization. However, further investigation might reveal that
                                    this was one of the banks that had to be bailed out by the
                                    government during the 2008 financial crisis!


Site Documents
More will be said about using secondary materials and documents
                                    in Chapter 21. However, here
                                    we will focus on some of the approaches to using documents when
                                    the researcher is dealing with specific communities,
                                    organizations or events. Documents come in a bewildering variety
                                    of styles and formats, ranging from the 'formal'
                                    to the 'informal'. At the informal end, there may
                                    be 'lay' accounts of life in the organization
                                    including fictional literature, diaries, autobiographies and
                                    letters (Hammersley and Atkinson, 2007) to which we might add
                                    blogs, tweets and personal pages on social media sites.
Of course, not all sites will readily offer up documents or
                                    materials for the researcher to use. Groups with literacy
                                    problems, or transient people, may leave few written materials.
                                    For example, there are few published diaries written by people
                                    who have been 'down and out' since many never
                                    become reintegrated into society. Even in localities where the
                                    researcher might reasonably expect to get access to documents,
                                    such access may be barred by gatekeepers, or maybe the
                                    documentary evidence is fragmentary or missing. Records
                                    themselves are not neutral. Stoler (2010) warns that researchers
                                    should view archives, for example, not as sites of knowledge
                                    retrieval, but of knowledge production, as monuments of what
                                    states choose to store. Archives, therefore, are cultural agents of
                                    'fact' production and of state authority. What
                                    constitutes an archive, what form it takes, and its system of
                                    classification, reflects critical features of state power.


Proxemics And Kinesics
Harrigan (2008) defines proxemics as the study of our perception
                                    and the structuring of interpersonal and environmental space,
                                    while kinesics refers to positions of the body, head and limbs.
                                    Proxemics focuses on the socially defined distance between
                                    people, while kinesics focuses on body language. So, employees
                                    whose offices are located physically distant from their line
                                    manager, may experience only a tenuous relationship with him or
                                    her. Similarly, seating arrangements at meetings have a social
                                    meaning with those exercising power (such as 'the
                                    boss' or chairperson) typically sitting at the head of
                                    the table. The fieldworker needs to record these observations,
                                    but put them in a larger context for interpretation (Fetterman,
                                    2010). Sensitivity to body language may also allow the
                                    ethnographic researcher to generate hypotheses and add a layer
                                    of understanding to fieldwork. For example, observing that a
                                    manager keeps his arms folded across his chest when talking to
                                    female colleagues but not with males, might suggest a
                                    nervousness around women. Harrigan (2008: 138) describes the use
                                    of a coding scheme for noting the 'rich mosaic of
                                        actions, gestures and postures' when observing
                                    human interactions or activities.




Validity And Reliability Issues

Validity
With internal validity, given the often high degree of personal
                                interpretation in observation, it may be difficult to prove
                                conclusively that the data gathered are sufficiently objective to
                                represent a true reflection of events. This, however, may be
                                assisted if the researcher is able to display a sound understanding
                                of the organization or context being researched because she or he
                                actually works in it. In other words, they are a
                                practitioner-researcher (see Chapter
                                    12).
In the case of external validity, the very individuality of some
                                observations may make it difficult to generalize the findings to
                                other situations. Many observational research projects take the form
                                of case studies and, as such, suffer from all the problems of
                                generalization normally associated with the case study approach, one
                                being small sample size. While Brewer (2000) concedes that it is
                                essential not to exaggerate the generalizability of findings
                                obtained from one or two fields, this does not mean that
                                generalization should be ruled out. Cases, for example, can be
                                carefully selected on the basis of their potential for being
                                representative of the population (so the researcher must be aware
                                of, and have access to, multiple field sites). Secondly, cases can
                                be studied in one field that are similar to cases in another, or a
                                series of longitudinal studies can be taken to build up a
                                historical, comparative perspective.
Claims for generalizability are also strengthened if the researcher
                                is able to stay in the field long enough to observe or experience
                                the full range of routines and behaviours that typify the case. If
                                this is not practically possible, then time sampling becomes
                                necessary, in which all activities are recorded during a specified
                                period. This should allow the observer to identify frequent routine
                                activities, and irregular events that are special or abnormal.
Hammersley (1992) argues that, while validity and reliability are
                                important issues, they are not sufficient. In considering the value
                                of a study, plausibility and credibility must also be taken into
                                account. In writing reports, researchers have the duty to present
                                sufficient evidence that may convince an audience - given the
                                existing state of knowledge. The more central a claim is to the core
                                arguments of the research, the greater the breadth and depth of
                                evidence that must be provided.



Reliability
As we have seen, one of the problems with observation is that
                                different researchers may see different objects, phenomena and human
                                behaviours when observing the same event. Similarly, each researcher
                                may give different interpretations of an event when seeing it on
                                different occasions. One way of reducing this unreliability is to
                                record the observed events in some way so that the data can be
                                reviewed and, if necessary, re-interpreted. The recording of data
                                through a structured notation system is important here because it
                                reduces the danger of human error in the recall of events.
                                Experienced researchers tend to keep very comprehensive notes, as
                                some details that appeared hardly relevant at the time of the
                                observation may later prove to be crucial. Again, reliability will
                                be increased by this more structured process.
Another way of improving the reliability of a study is through the
                                process of triangulation, that is, the use of multiple methods of
                                data collection. Triangulation is a word drawn from the world of
                                surveying, where measurement is taken from three or more different
                                points in order to identify a particular area with accuracy.
                                According to Begley (1996) triangulation comes from a positivist
                                frame of reference, which assumes, as we have seen, that a single
                                reality or 'truth' can be found. But this does not
                                mean that only quantitative data are relevant. Both quantitative and
                                qualitative data can be combined to form a coherent picture.
In principle, then, triangulation reduces sources of error by
                                gathering data from multiple sources, or using a variety of methods
                                or theoretical approaches. But while it may reduce the chance of
                                error, it does not eliminate it. Indeed, using a number of
                                inappropriate data gathering methods, or using more than one badly
                                trained observer, does not improve research reliability! So, just as
                                in the selection of one research approach or method, using multiple
                                methods still requires making them congruent with the research
                                questions being asked. As Begley (1996) puts it:

Unfortunately, many neophyte researchers 'use
                                    triangulation' without either explaining or rationalizing
                                    their decisions, seeming to expect that the mere fact that they
                                    are utilizing this approach will magically solve all problems of
                                    bias, error and invalidity. (Begley, 1996: 127)




Presenting Observational Data
In contrast to other research approaches, observational research does not
                            leave the writing up of results to a later stage - it is an
                            ongoing process right from the start. This permits the researcher to
                            interact with the data, to expose gaps in knowledge and identify where
                            further investigation is required. Important issues in the presentation
                            of data include: what to write; how to write it; and what kinds of claim
                            can be made for the status of the account.

What To Write
There can be no prescriptive rules on this, but accounts could
                                include:
The context of the study (physical setting, history,
                                        etc.).The number of participants.The activities taking place.The division of labour and hierarchies.Significant events.Members' perspectives and meanings.Social rules and basic patterns of order.
Quotations should be used
                                to provide the reader with an opportunity to verify some of the
                                claims made in the report, but should not be too numerous as to be
                                intrusive. Reports can also include photographs, charts, leaflets
                                and other visual media.


Writing For The Audience
We will look at some of the essential skills of report writing in Chapter 26, so these will not
                                be examined in any detail here. For reporting on observational
                                research, all the basic rules of report writing stand: use language
                                that the audience understands; engage the reader's interest
                                through the use of rich, vivid descriptions; and make connections
                                from data analysis to the theory clear.


Determine The Status Of The Writing
Researchers, and particularly ethnographic researchers (see Chapter 17), are divided as to
                                the level of credibility they should assign to their report. Those
                                who adhere to more positivistic traditions tend to argue for the
                                authenticity of their research as a reflection of 'how it
                                really is' in the field. Postmodernists, of course, challenge
                                this view, arguing that any version of events is just one among
                                multiple perspectives and interpretations. In extreme postmodern
                                accounts, ethnographers even hold back from interpretation, allowing
                                the text to 'speak for itself'. Certainly, researchers
                                who use structured observation methods are probably more likely to
                                see their quantitative data as offering an 'objective'
                                measure of reality.



Ethical Issues In Observational Studies
While we have raised ethical concerns in looking at the use of other
                            research methods and instruments, ethical issues are certainly no less
                            important here. One of the justifications for covert observation is
                            that, by omitting informed consent, it 'protects' subjects
                            from any of the potentially negative effects of knowing that they are
                            being observed. This might include apprehension or nervousness. Another
                            argument is that all researchers assume a 'variety of
                            masks' depending on where they find themselves, so covert
                            observation is no different. The notion of 'net gain' is
                            cited, whereby the benefits of the research outweigh the risks of the
                            covert method. Diener and Crandall (1978), however, point out that the
                            costs and benefits of research are often both impossible to predict and
                            difficult to measure. Herrera (1999) also has little sympathy with the
                            net gain argument, suggesting that some subjects may discover their
                            involvement and might be disturbed by the revelation - not least
                            that they learn of their own naïveté (recall
                            Cassell's (1982) point about unasked for self-knowledge in Chapter 4). It is probably best if
                            covert methods are only used where there is no alternative, such as
                            where gatekeepers impose impossible barriers or where access is
                            closed.
As we saw in Chapter 4, most professional
                            associations that concern themselves with research draw up ethical codes
                            of conduct. If a researcher is commissioned, sponsored or provided with
                            access to a site through one of these associations, then she or he will
                            be required actually to sign
                            up to the code. The British Sociological Association's statement
                            of ethics, for example, provides guidelines on:
Professional integrity: Members should seek to safeguard
                                    the interests of those involved or affected by their work. They
                                    should recognize the boundaries of their own competence and not
                                    accept work they are not qualified to carry out.Relations with and responsibility to research
                                        participants: The physical, social and psychological
                                    well-being of participants should not be adversely affected.
                                    Participation should be on the basis of informed consent, and
                                    participants should understand how far they will be afforded
                                    anonymity and confidentiality. Special care must be taken when
                                    dealing with groups that are vulnerable by virtue of age, social
                                    status or powerlessness. If research is covert, anonymity of
                                    participants must be protected and, if possible, informed
                                    consent obtained post hoc.Relations with and responsibility towards sponsors and
                                        funders: The obligations of sponsors and researchers
                                    should be clarified in advance of the research. Researchers
                                    should not accept conditions that are contrary to their
                                    professional ethics or competence. During the research, sponsors
                                    or funders should be informed of any departure from the terms of
                                    reference.

On The Web 16.1
For a more detailed description of ethical guidelines see the
                                Institute of Consulting website at:

http://www.iconsulting.org.uk/membership/professional_code_of_conduct




Our final case study illustrates an actual use of covert observation
                            (both participative and non-participative within the same study) and the
                            uses of multiple sources of evidence.

Case Study 16.4

The Role Of Observation In Market Research
In certain situations, observation is the only way of obtaining
                                    information on customer behaviour, especially where the
                                    influences on that behaviour are subconscious. A study was
                                    undertaken to develop guidelines for the siting of middle-market
                                    restaurant outlets in order to maximize the number of potential
                                    consumers passing by at lunch-times. The location was three
                                    interconnecting streets in a suburb of South London. The study
                                    was in two stages. First, an observation of consumer movements
                                    around the high street. Secondly, a series of visits to the
                                    restaurants as covert observers during the lunch period.
In Phase 1, a range of factors was assessed to see if they had
                                    any influence on consumer traffic flows in general and on
                                    restaurant usage. These included: the curve of the road, the
                                    sunny side of the street, pedestrian crossings, public transport
                                    sites, the gradient of the street and the types of shops in the
                                    vicinity of the restaurant. Counts of consumer traffic were
                                    conducted for 15-minute periods, focusing on strategic areas such as those near
                                    pedestrian crossings, the top and the bottom of the hill, near
                                    banks with cash withdrawal facilities, etc.
During Phase 2 the restaurants in the study were visited four
                                    times at lunch-time and detailed notes taken of customers using
                                    classifications such as: types of customer (individuals,
                                    couples, families, similar age groups); dining purpose
                                    (business, family treat, celebration, romantic one-to-one);
                                    style of dress (formal or casual); and mode of transport (walk,
                                    taxi, car, bus, etc.). By analysing the types of customer in the
                                    restaurant, it was then possible to assess if there was a
                                    positive relationship between the type of customer on the
                                    streets and the type of customer in the restaurants. In other
                                    words, the study was assessing whether the restaurant was
                                    situated in the right place.
It was found that, to maximize the flow of potential customers
                                    going past the restaurant at lunch-times, the outlet ought to be
                                    situated: on a central site rather than at the far end of the
                                    high street, on the sunny side of the street, on the inner
                                    rather than the outer curve of the street, and near transport
                                    links appropriate to the outlet's key market segments
                                    (customers).


Source: Adapted from Boote and Mathews, 1999



Activity 16.5
Examine the observational design in Case Study 16.4. Could the data
                                gathering have been done in any other way? How effective would this
                                alternative method have been in terms of the validity of the data?
                                What dangers are there of observer bias in the study and how could
                                they be controlled for?
Suggested answers are provided at the end of the chapter.



Summary
Observation is more than just 'seeing'; it also
                                    involves complex combinations of all the senses and the
                                    interpretation of observed events.Observation can be overt or covert and involve the active
                                    participation of the observer or non-participation.One of the challenges of the observational approach is the
                                    gathering of data, particularly if the observer is a covert
                                    participant.Field notes should be as comprehensive as possible and should be
                                    taken either as events are observed or as soon as possible
                                    afterwards.Observational methods will often be triangulated with other
                                    research approaches, such as interviews and questionnaires.For structured observation, coding schedules will be used based
                                    on the principle of either noting events over a period of time
                                    or noting when an event occurs.Ethical issues arise, particularly where covert observation is
                                    being used. Researchers may do well to make use of a code of
                                    ethics drawn up by the relevant professional body, if such a
                                    code exists.

Review Questions
To what extent does observation provide a better approach to
                                        the study of behaviours than interviews and surveys?Compare the advantages and disadvantages of conducting
                                        covert and overt observation.Why should field notes be written up immediately after the
                                        field observations?List three advantages of using structured observation. What
                                        are the drawbacks, and how can these be accommodated?What is the role of unstructured observation as a precursor
                                        to structured observation?



Further Reading
Bailey, C.A. (2007) A Guide to Field Research, 2nd edn. Thousand
                            Oaks, CA: Pine Forge Press. Not only is it clearly written, this book
                            contains a host of valid and informative examples of practical
                            experiences in the field.
Darlington, Y. and Scott, D. (2002) Qualitative Research in Practice:
                                Stories from the Field. Buckingham: Open University Press.
                            Discusses how to avoid deception and how non-participation is difficult
                            to achieve in practice.


Journal Resources
Roberts, J.C. (2007) 'Barroom aggression in Hoboken, New Jersey:
                            Don't blame the bouncers!', Journal of Drug
                                Education, 37(4): 429-445. Using structured observation,
                            finds that the absence of doormen and bouncers is a strong predictor of
                            barroom violence.
Thorpe, A.S. (2014) 'Doing the right thing or doing the thing
                            right: Implications of participant withdrawal', Organizational
                                Research Methods, 17(3): 255-277. Discusses the
                            implications and the researcher's response to the withdrawal of
                            participants from a grounded theory study that involved field
                            observation of an experimental community.
Volery, T., Mueller, S. and Siemens, von B. (2015) 'Entrepreneur
                            ambidexterity: A study of entrepreneur behaviours and competencies in
                            growth-oriented small and medium-sized enterprises',
                                International Small Business Journal, 23(2): 78-81.
                            Uses structured observation to explore the every day behaviour of
                            entrepreneurs.


Suggested Answers For Activity 16.1
If the observation was overt, then customers might act in ways that might
                            hide or obscure their inability to cope with some aspects of the
                            system.



Suggested Answers For Activity 16.5
Certainly, data could have been collected in other ways - for
                            example, through a market research survey of customer attitudes to the
                            siting of the new restaurant. But would the return rate be adequate?
                            Would the responses be honest? With observations, however, one of the
                            dangers is observer bias. One way of controlling for this is through the
                            use of multiple observers, who would each observe independently and then
                            compare both their raw data and analysis.

Don't forget to visit the companion website at https://study.sagepub.com/grayresearchbusiness for the
                                following resources which support this chapter:


















17 Ethnography And Participant
                        Observation

Chapter Introduction

Chapter Outline
The origins of ethnographyGuidelines for fieldworkGathering data: participant observation and field notesGathering data: interviewingGathering data: digital mediaEthical principles in ethnographyThe ethnographic selfFeminist ethnographyCritical ethnographySculpting the truth in ethnographic accountsRecording the miracle


Keywords
EthnographyParticipant observationFieldworkReflexivityNatural settingsPostmodernismFeminist ethnographyCritical ethnographyPositionalities



Icon Key







Author Video







Chapter Objectives
After reading this chapter you will be able to:
Describe the origins of ethnography as a data gathering
                                        method.Distinguish between ethnography and structured observational
                                        methods.Outline the circumstances when ethnography is the most
                                        appropriate approach.Plan and conduct ethnographic fieldwork, selecting the
                                        field, gaining access, building rapport and getting
                                        out.Conduct ethnographic research ethically.Handle identity and know when and how to weave 'the
                                        self' into ethnographic accounts.Write an ethnographic account that is authentic and
                                        credible.



Ethnography is a qualitative research method that seeks to understand
                            cultural phenomena that reflect the knowledge and meanings that guide
                            the life of cultural groups within their own environment. While the
                            origins of ethnography lie in the socio-cultural anthropology of the
                            nineteenth century, it is now widely used in sociology, communications
                            studies, educational and medical research, and history - subjects
                            where the intention is to study people, ethnic groups and cultures.
                            However, ethnography remains a contested and, in the view of Jordan and
                            Yeomans (1995), an often loosely used term. Hammersley and Atkinson
                            (2007: 1) see ethnography as:

... a particular method or sets of methods. In its most
                                characteristic form it involves the ethnographer participating,
                                overtly or covertly, in people's lives for an extended period
                                of time, watching what happens, listening to what is said, asking
                                questions....




What is Ethnography?


For Willis and Trondman (2000: 5) it is

... a family of methods involving sustained social contact with
                                agents, and richly writing up the encounter, respecting, recording,
                                representing at least partly in its own terms, the irreducibility of
                                human experience.

Ethnographers, then, as participant observers, look at and record
                            people's way of life and take an emic (folk or inside) and
                                etic (analytic or outside) approach to describing communities
                            and cultures. The research is carried out in natural settings and is
                            sympathetic to those settings. Traditionally those involved in
                            ethnographic research spend long periods of time in the place of study,
                            and are able to produce thick written cultural descriptions that
                            communicate the information found in the field, or, in the words of
                            Fetterman (2010: 1) 'a credible, rigorous and authentic
                            story'. While in the past, ethnographers may have travelled to
                            distant places to study 'exotic' tribes or groups,
                            contemporary ethnography can concern itself with more mundane locations
                            such as shopping malls, libraries, parks, workplaces, households,
                            communities, cities and even information systems and cyberspace.
Image 17.1 The old
                                and the new - both are legitimate sites for ethnography© iStock.com / Osmany Torres
                                Martín© iStock.com / Michael
                                Könen
Ethnographic accounts seek to be both descriptive and interpretive.
                            Description is important because a high level of detail is essential.
                            Interpretation is equally important because the ethnographer must
                            determine the significance of what he or she observes. Ethnographic
                            research typically employs three kinds of data collection methods:
                            observation, interviews and documents, often employing all three methods
                            in a single study. These in turn produce three kinds of data:
                            quotations, descriptions and excerpts of documents. The aim of
                            ethnographic research is to produce narrative descriptions that help to
                            tell 'the story' (Hammersley, 1990). Ethnographic methods
                            can help in the development of constructs, themes or variables, but
                            ethnography is also used to test theory. Indeed no study, ethnographic
                            or otherwise, can be conducted without recourse to theory whether
                            scholarly or personal (Fetterman, 2010).
One of the key decisions at an early stage is the extent to which the
                            researcher is going to be a participant in the study, which can vary
                            from complete immersion alongside those being observed, or complete
                            detachment (or at least an attempt at detachment) with the role of
                            spectator. Participation helps the researcher to develop an
                            insider's perspective on what is happening. However, the
                            researcher must also observe what is happening (whilst reflecting on
                            their own involvement and biases). The key to ethnographic research,
                            then, is skilfully combining the role of participant and observer.


The Origins Of Ethnography
The origins of ethnography are often attributed to the pioneering
                            fieldwork of Polish anthropologist Bronislaw Malinowski. In his seminal
                            work, The Argonauts of the Western Pacific, published in 1914,
                            Malinowski devotes a whole section of the book to explaining the process
                            of gathering data through meticulously documented observations and
                            interviews. He explained that, to have a thorough understanding of a
                            different culture, anthropologists must have daily contact with their
                            informants and become immersed in the culture which they are studying.
                            The goal, then, was to understand the 'native's point of
                            view'. To achieve this, not only must the anthropologist collect
                            data, there needs to be an emphasis on interpretation. The link between
                            data collection and the writing of ethnographic monographs is meticulous
                            field notes. According to Roldan (2002), Malinowski increased the
                            validity of his ethnography by including in the text fieldwork data,
                            information about the research process and theoretical assumptions.



Ethnography and Multinationals


Although its origins lie in the
                            field of anthropology, ethnography was soon taken up by sociologists, a
                            move pioneered by the Chicago School at the University of Chicago in the
                            1920s, 1930s and 1940s. The primary assumption for the Chicago School
                            was that qualitative methodologies, especially those used in
                            naturalistic observation (such as ethnography), were best suited for the
                            study of urban, social phenomena. It was through the Chicago School that
                            ethnography and symbolic interactionism became closely associated. The
                            phrase symbolic interactionism was first coined in 1937 by Blumer
                            (1969), although the approach to social analysis is largely credited to
                            the work of George Hubert Mead during his time at the University of
                            Chicago. Blumer (1969) argued that, in essence, humans act towards
                            things (including fellow humans) according to subjectively attributed
                            meanings which are interpreted reflexively and subjectively. The
                            combination of ethnography and symbolic interactionism led to the
                            writing of several classic texts such as W.F. Whyte's Street
                                Corner Society (1943) and E. Goffman's Asylums
                            (1961). Ironically, the teaching of fieldwork methods at the University
                            of Chicago was limited, with ways of organizing ethnographic research
                            being largely acquired 'on the hoof' (Shaffir, 1999).
In recent years, ethnography has witnessed great diversification with
                            different approaches being adopted, guided by different epistemological
                            concerns and ethnographic practice, including long-term in-depth
                            studies, through to condensed fieldwork, consultancy work or
                            participation in political struggles (Atkinson and Hammersley, 1994).
                            There has also been a growing application of ethnography beyond
                            anthropology and sociology into applied fields such as education, health
                            and social policy. Sometimes associated with these more applied forms of
                            ethnography have been moves towards collaborative research, stemming not
                            just from a desire for engagement with practice, but also from an
                            epistemological concern that ethnography has privileged the researcher
                            - as the implied Narrator - over the Other, the object of
                            the ethnographer's gaze. Hence, the accounts produced by
                            researchers are viewed as constructions that reflect the presuppositions
                            and the socio-historical conditions in which they were produced. Under
                            the influence of various forms of antirealism such as constructivism
                            (Guba, 1990) or poststructuralism (Denzin, 1990; Lather, 1991), claims
                            for ethnographic accounts have become more sceptical. In the late 1980s
                            and early 1990s, for example, a postmodern turn in anthropology
                            challenged anthropologists to question their own assumptions and write
                            more reflexively. An example here is auto-ethnography (Reed-Danahay,
                            1997) which has been encouraged by postmodern theory to draw out the
                            narrative of participant observation and relationships in the field
                            through personal stories (of the researcher) as a reliable mode of
                            expressing findings from the field (Coffey, 1999) and as a credible,
                            adjunct data source (Possick, 2009).
Anderson (1999: 456), however, is sceptical of what he terms the nihilist
                            excesses of the postmodern turn, its hyper-reflexivity, and its
                            'clever, self-absorbed and evasive writing', serving to
                            undermine empirical ethnographic work. He does, though, claim that some
                            of its more positive insights will eventually be absorbed into what he
                            calls analytic ethnography, an empirical approach linked to
                            ethnomethodological traditions. He is also optimistic about the future
                            of ethnography, pointing to the growth of ethnographic research in the
                            1990s, within a broader range of academic disciplines. Hence, it is
                            possible, for the first time, to talk about educational ethnography,
                            medical ethnography, policy-oriented ethnography and even performance
                            ethnography. Watson (2011) points to the potential that ethnography can
                            play in management studies, investigating 'how things
                            work' in organizations. Denzin and Lincoln (1994), however, talk
                            about the flowering of ethnographic 'moments' through
                            which US social science has passed or is passing. Anderson (1999),
                            though, sees this less as a succession of movements, but more of a
                            diversification of ethnography. Indeed, ethnography remains a highly
                            complex and contentious discursive field (Atkinson and Hammersley, 1994)
                            at the 'intersections of communication, culture and
                            identity' (Berry, 2011: 169).



Guidelines For Fieldwork
It is fieldwork that is the most defining characteristic of ethnographic
                            research (Fetterman, 2010). While classic ethnography could involve from
                            six months to two years or more in the field, modern ethnography can
                            involve studies where the researcher visits a site for, say, a two-week
                            period every few months or so during a study lasting two or three years.
                            Fieldwork involves an outsider angling for insider knowledge. Hence,
                            fieldworkers ride the lines between and across multiple boundaries, with
                            the result that the journey can be emotionally uncomfortable or in the
                            words of Irwin (2006: 160) 'exceedingly edgy'. Doing
                            fieldwork involves a number of stages including deciding what field or
                            context in which to conduct the research, getting access and gaining
                            acceptance within the field, conducting the fieldwork itself and leaving
                            the field (getting out) in as ethical and acceptable a way as
                            possible.

Top Tip 17.1
If ethnographic studies can involve immersion in the field for long
                                periods, even several years, you need to think carefully before you
                                embark on this type of research. It might be appropriate, say, for
                                someone undertaking research as part of their employment, or as part
                                of a doctorate. Indeed, as we shall see in some of the case studies
                                that follow, some have been implemented as part of a PhD. However,
                                for those studying, say, at Masters level the long periods required
                                would normally rule out this kind of research undertaking.



Top Tip: Considering the Ethnographic
                                        Self






Selecting The Field
The nature of the setting chosen for the study may be decided before
                                the research problem has been fully resolved. In some studies,
                                however, the collection of ethnographic data may itself help in the
                                definition of the research problem. Data collection and analysis may
                                also lead to the identification of new themes that require different
                                and additional sites for study. Settings contain cases for study but
                                the two are not necessarily synonymous. Hence, cases may be studied
                                in a particular setting, but researchers may have to study aspects
                                of a case across multiple settings (Hammersley and Atkinson, 2007).
                                For example, a study might explore an entrepreneur's start up
                                business, but might also want to explore her other, more established
                                businesses. How and why cases are chosen (sampled) will be
                                determined by the kinds of criteria discussed in Chapter
                                    9. So, given the qualitative and intensive nature of most
                                ethnographic research, and the use of only a few sites, sampling
                                design will be mostly based upon typical sites (Schneider,
                                2006a).
As Hammersley and Atkinson (2007) point out, sampling decisions must
                                also be taken within cases, particularly in relation to time, people
                                and context. For time sampling, it is obvious that the researcher
                                cannot be in the field for 24 hours a day; so some choices have to
                                be made in terms of when to enter the field. In a factory setting,
                                for example, this could be sampling during day shifts, evening
                                shifts and night shifts. Time phases are also an issue. Schneider
                                (2006a) recommends that, for applied ethnographic studies (for
                                example, studies that evaluate projects or programmes) observations
                                should continue through at least one cycle related to the research
                                problem. So, a study of the effects of government funding on agency
                                programmes might observe the impact through a complete budget year.
                                Sampling within a case (for example a study within an organization)
                                will also involve selecting among people, which could involve ensuring different
                                categories, based on gender, race, educational qualifications or
                                social class, were all represented in the study. Within a setting,
                                people may act differently according to the context. So, for
                                example, within the setting of a university, students may act
                                differently depending on whether they are attending a lecture,
                                studying in the library or socializing with friends. Sampling
                                design, then, will have to take this into account.


Gaining Access
Central to gaining access to a site is the attitude of gatekeepers,
                                who can help or hinder the research depending upon their views as to
                                the validity of the research and its impact on the welfare of people
                                they work with. Pankey-Videla (2012) comments that one of the main
                                challenges confronting ethnographers is how to gain access to a
                                research site, especially gaining informed consent (see next section and Case Study
                                17.3). As Pankey-Videla (2012) points out, most companies do not
                                want to deal with researchers as this takes up precious time. Thus,
                                obtaining permission to study an organization often entails multiple
                                rejections and prolonged negotiations. Duke (2002) supports this
                                view, asserting that gaining access to sites is much easier when
                                personal contacts can smooth the path and where the researcher is
                                known to have some knowledge or experience of the area. Once inside
                                an organization, researchers often feel vulnerable, fearing they
                                might lose hard-fought access. Even once access has been negotiated,
                                further informal gatekeepers also need to be approached before site
                                members will fully participate in a study (Reeves, 2010).
It will certainly be easier to gain entry if the researcher has
                                empathy with those being studied. This does not mean necessarily
                                agreeing or disagreeing with them, but it does mean avoiding the
                                adoption of judgemental attitudes. Patton (2002) suggests that a
                                reciprocity model of gaining entry is valuable, where both
                                researcher and participants come to see mutual advantages emerging
                                from the observational process. This, of course, may be a pious
                                hope. As Hall (2000) points out, especially when working with
                                disadvantaged groups (for example low-paid immigrant workers), an
                                outsider's curiosity might be construed as objectionable and
                                patronizing - the first few weeks of fieldwork can sometimes
                                be a miserable experience for the researcher.
The issue of gender may be significant to gaining access. Gurney
                                (2002) comments that being a female researcher in a male-dominated
                                environment may aid not only formal but also informal access as
                                women are regarded as 'warmer' and less threatening
                                than men. Hence, gatekeepers may not demand the same level of
                                assurances from women researchers prior to granting formal access.
                                Conversely, women may find entry problematic because of a perceived
                                lack of professionalism or credibility (Gurney, 2002). However, as
                                Mulhall (2003) asserts, an effort can be made to rectify this
                                position by dressing for the occasion, and deferring (within limits)
                                to the authority and cultural expectations of gatekeepers.


Top Tip 17.2
Negotiating access may take longer than you anticipate. As
                                        part of your research planning, make sure that you give
                                        yourself sufficient 'lead time' in setting up
                                        your observation.




Gaining Informed Consent
Informing people in the research setting of what you are doing, and
                                eliciting their consent, is seen as good practice by most
                                researchers. Diener and Crandall (1978) suggest that fully informed
                                consent should include:
Describing the overall purpose of the research.Telling the participants about their role in the study.Stating why they have been chosen.Explaining the procedures, including the amount of time
                                        required.Clearly stating the risks and discomforts.Stating that the participants may withdraw at any time.
As we saw in Chapter 15 (recall Figure 15.4), getting
                                participants to sign a consent form is also prudent. This, of
                                course, implies that covert observation cannot be undertaken. Bailey
                                (2007) argues that achieving a cooperative relationship with a group
                                more than compensates for what is lost through reactivity (between
                                researcher and those being researched). However, the impact of the
                                researcher's presence and interactions needs to be reflected
                                in field notes and analysis. Note that even after permission has
                                been granted it can be withdrawn at any time and that this must be
                                respected. Of course, there are often circumstances when informed
                                consent is simply impractical. Burgess (1984) notes that in research
                                in public settings (sports events, church services, etc.) access
                                cannot be negotiated with every participant.



Informed Consent



Becoming Invisible
The researcher may become 'invisible' due to the
                                    length of time they are involved in the project, by immersing
                                    themselves into the norms and behaviours of the group being
                                    studied, or simply by hiding the fact that they are a
                                    researcher. Young researchers, for example, would have greater
                                    success in integrating themselves as workers/researchers in a
                                    fast food retail outlet than, say, researching the activities of
                                    a Chamber of Commerce business club where membership tends to be
                                    older. As Berg (2006) points out, however, there are reasons why
                                    invisibility is a danger. If, for example, you go
                                    'undercover' to research, say, criminal activities
                                    within an organization, you need to ensure that you do not
                                    become implicated yourself! On the whole, though, invisibility
                                    means that participants cease to be consciously aware of the
                                    researcher's presence, and therefore act more
                                    naturally.


Building Rapport
Rapport is concerned with 'getting there' and
                                    'being there' and is often associated with themes
                                    such as empathy, immersion, participation, friendship, honesty,
                                    collaboration, trust and loyalty (Springwood and King, 2001). In
                                    the field, researchers seek to develop close interpersonal
                                    relationships with key informants based upon mutual respect and
                                    shared understandings. Berger (2001), for example, describes how
                                    she shared her personal stories with those engaged in her
                                    fieldwork studies, generating relationship formation and
                                    exchange between them. However, while this may appear simple at
                                    a surface level, in practice the achievement of rapport may be
                                    challenged where researchers find themselves having to hide
                                    their identities, or where their views and values clash with
                                    those they are researching. Westmarland (2001) for example,
                                    reports on her ethnographic study of the police where she
                                    witnessed a number of examples of police violence against an
                                    attempted suicide victim, a drug addict and others. As Reeves
                                    (2010) notes, while the researcher may be anxious to establish
                                    and maintain rapport in order to generate good quality data,
                                    respondents do not have these concerns. Hence, in her study of
                                    convicted criminals living in a probation hostel, even though
                                    respondents were comfortable with her presence, they continued
                                    to tell her half-truths, lies and stories in order to give her
                                    an image they wanted to portray. Achieving rapport then, does
                                    not necessarily lead to honest responses.



Handling Identity - Reflexive
                                    Positioning
In undertaking participant observation one of the challenges is
                                    to maintain a balance between 'insider' and
                                    'outsider' status. To gain a deep understanding of
                                    people's lives it is essential that the researcher gets
                                    not only physically but also emotionally close to them -
                                    but how then does the researcher maintain a professional
                                    'distance'? Achieving this is often affected by
                                    issues such as the gender, race, social class and the education
                                    of the researcher compared to that of the people being
                                    researched. As one set of researchers put it:

The more one is like the participants in terms of culture,
                                        gender, race, socio-economic class and so on, the more it is
                                        assumed that access will be granted, meanings shared, and
                                        validity of findings assured. (Merriam et al., 2001:
                                        406)




Reflexivity


To remain an 'outsider' would be to fail to gain
                                    the kind of rapport that is needed to make this method a
                                    success. The participant observer, in a sense, needs to be both
                                    inside and outside the setting. Indeed, Merriam et al. (2001)
                                    argue that the boundaries between the two positions are not
                                    simple or clearly delineated. Being inside or outside is
                                    relative to a whole host of cultural and social characteristics
                                    and is a position that can shift over time. According to Hall
                                    (2000), the best the ethnographer can achieve is to negotiate a
                                    position in which one is in some way 'at home' and
                                    considered as 'one of us' without becoming
                                    completely immersed.
Positioning is a concept used in the analysis of narratives that
                                    allows researchers to explore how people make sense of
                                    themselves and construct their own identities (Possick, 2009).
                                    Using processes such as self-reflection, self-criticism and
                                    agency, participants can choose a position among the variety of
                                    positions available and/or generate new positions by performing
                                    narratives with the audience. One position is that of the
                                    autobiographical, an approach that seeks to acknowledge the
                                    effects of the researcher's personal and intellectual
                                    biography on all stages of research through the process of
                                    reflexivity (Hugill, 2012; Mickelson, 2011). According to
                                    Possick (2009), while many researchers engage in reflection,
                                    much remains unpublished or separate from the main data
                                    analysis. In cases of research on sensitive topics, where there
                                    are strong emotional reactions and ethical dangers, this
                                    self-censorship is particularly glaring. Possick (2009) urges
                                    that autobiographical elements be included in the foreground of
                                    research not the background. This, then, is one aspect of
                                    positioning. The personal account includes thoughts and feelings
                                    about the informants, the physical elements in the field,
                                    relevant autobiographical events and a variety of
                                    'unstructured musings about the research
                                    experience' (Possick, 2009: 862).


Getting Out
While ethnographers have written quite extensively on entering a
                                    field of study and on developing rapport with participants, less
                                    is known about leaving the field (Lofland and Lofland, 1995).
                                    When to leave may have been planned early on in the project or
                                    it might result from the 'Things to do' portion of
                                    field notes getting ever smaller, or when fewer insights are
                                    emerging. Leaving the field of observation involves both the
                                    physical and emotional disengagement of the researcher. This is
                                    particularly the case if the observation has been conducted over
                                    a lengthy period of time and the researcher has developed
                                    empathy and commitment to the inhabitants. Prior to
                                    disengagement, the researcher should warn the community of
                                    members that this exit is imminent. The withdrawal is probably
                                    best handled in a series of stages. Rock (2001) agrees that
                                    quitting the field is never easy. Ethnographic research involves
                                    'emotional enmeshment' (Possick, 2009: 868). For
                                    one thing, the researcher will have invested a considerable
                                    portion of themselves cultivating relationships and even
                                    friendships but these are now to be shed.

The ethnographer who courted others, who had seemingly
                                        limitless time to listen, is now revealed as a person who
                                        can no longer be bothered and is in a hurry to be off.
                                        (Rock, 2001: 36)

To make matters worse,
                                    the ethnographer is off to expose what has been learned to the
                                    whole world. No wonder people can feel used. In leaving
                                    the field, you might like to consider paying attention to the
                                    following elements:
Make the fact that you will leave the field explicit at
                                            the start (that is, your project has a finite
                                            length).Indicate the date of your leaving several weeks before
                                            the event so there are no surprises.Remind respondents of your leaving date several days
                                            before it arrives.Hold a leaving 'event' to celebrate the
                                            project (but also remind others of your imminent
                                            departure).Organize emotional support for yourself (see next).

Top Tip 17.3
If undertaking insider participant research (especially if it
                                        is covert), consider using either your supervisor or another
                                        confidante as an adviser or 'critical friend'.
                                        Use this person to discuss any problems you may be having,
                                        particularly in maintaining your sense of detachment and
                                        objectivity. You may also want to discuss any issues or
                                        incidents that raise ethical considerations.


Case Study 17.1

Ethnography, Reciprocity And Getting Too
                                            Close?
Ortiz (2004) describes an ethnographic study in which he
                                            researched the isolated world of the wives of
                                            professional athletes using sequential interviewing,
                                            participant observation, personal documents and print
                                            media accounts. He travelled thousands of miles across
                                            the USA during the process. As a result

I necessarily minimized involvement in other areas of
                                                my personal life. As a result, their world was my
                                                world for more than three years. (p. 470)

His impression management style was one of 'muted
                                            masculinity', offered in direct contrast to the
                                            hegemonic masculinity so common in the sports world.
                                            Hence, he became regarded as a man of a
                                            'different kind' by many of the women
                                            whose lives were socially isolated. The establishment of
                                            reciprocity in his collaborative relationship with the
                                            women included babysitting, hanging curtains, running
                                            errands, shopping with them and even house-hunting. Over
                                            time, this closeness generated data that included
                                            secrets, gossip and occupationally relevant information
                                            (about their husbands).
Through sequential interviewing, critical topics were
                                            constantly emerging, but each new tantalizing piece of
                                            information became critical data that he felt he had to
                                            follow up with more interviews. Thus he got himself into
                                            an endless cycle of compulsive data collection. Even
                                            when he terminated a relationship he agreed to keep in
                                            touch with the respondent. He discovered, however, that
                                            staying in touch served to open up a Pandora's
                                            box of new information. The therapeutic nature of the
                                            interview sessions also seemed to act as an added incentive for
                                            the wives to stay in touch with the researcher. Hence,
                                            although he knew he needed to make an effort to distance
                                            himself 'constant reminders of the wives and
                                            their marriages continued to pull me back into their
                                            isolated world' (Ortiz, 2004: 479). He finally
                                            arrived at a point where he began to feel emotionally
                                            exhausted and trapped and terminated contact. Although
                                            this process left him with feelings of guilt, he
                                            concludes that 'going native' is not
                                            always a mistake, especially if collaborative
                                            relationships are mutually beneficial.



Activity 17.1
How does Ortiz (2004) justify his 'compulsive data
                                        collection'? Can/should the researcher be both an
                                        ethnographer and an informal therapist? What steps should be
                                        taken to maintain ethical boundaries?




The Field As A Construction
In the previous section we explored fieldwork from a practical
                                perspective, the researcher simply entering the field with an
                                'open mind', similar to Glaser and Strauss's
                                (1967) notion of fieldwork as a 'clean slate' where
                                the researcher is free of prior experience. However, as Funder
                                (2005) warns, this notion ignores the degree to which we are
                                socialized and institutionalized into adopting ways of structuring
                                and labelling the world we explore. For example, talking about the
                                field of environment and development, we talk of sustainable
                                resource management practices and unsustainable, so
                                establishing categories of people who live sustainably or
                                unsustainably.

This framing of the world through our pre-conceived ontologies
                                    often takes place through dichotomies: When addressing the
                                    environment and development problems, we frequently approach the
                                    world as divided into the poor and the wealthy, the rural and
                                    the urban, the community and the state, the traditional and
                                    modern, the natural and the degraded. Although we may attempt to
                                    overcome some such dualisms, they are powerful notions that to a
                                    large extent provide our only means of negotiating the world.
                                    (Funder, 2005: 2)

This Western pattern of knowledge production now permeates Asian
                                societies as well, where, in some ways, Western science came to
                                structure and to some extent even create Asian societies, through
                                the process of giving names to (classifying) ethnic groups, and by
                                drawing maps (creating national boundaries). In terms of knowledge,
                                'modern' methods of resource management (i.e. Western)
                                were privileged above 'traditional' methods. Funder
                                (2005) describes his ethnographic study of a coastal zone management
                                project in Thailand where he first sought to identify community
                                members to interview, dividing them into
                                'participants' and 'non-participants'
                                and subsequently developing new categories of
                                'fishermen' and 'non-fishermen',
                                'Buddhist' and 'Muslim' households. He
                                reflects that this categorization rested on his own embedded notion
                                of communities as essentially heterogeneous, stratified entities,
                                steeped in struggles over control of natural resources. However,
                                this underlying conflict perspective was one into which he had been
                                socialized through many years of interaction with teachers and peers
                                at his 'left-leaning' university. Similarly, Brunt
                                (2001) raises problematically the notion of community. Communities
                                consist of people who consider themselves to be part of the same
                                history or destiny, but this notion is based on symbols and
                                attitudes, not necessarily concrete urban neighbourhoods or villages. Hence,
                                ethnographers should not necessarily go off in search of a physical
                                community. People have multiple identities and may regard themselves
                                as members of multiple communities irrespective of where they work
                                or live.



Gathering Data: Participant Observation And Field
                            Notes
Participant observation involves not only gaining access to the field and
                            building rapport, it also means producing written accounts and
                            descriptions of what was observed. A vital stage in this process is the
                            production of field notes, that is, writings that are produced in close
                            proximity to the field. Proximity may mean geographical closeness, but
                            more important is temporal proximity, the fact that field notes are
                            written more or less contemporaneously with the events,
                            experiences and interactions they describe (Emerson, Fretz and Shaw,
                            2001). As representations of what they purport to represent, field notes
                            are necessarily selective. The ethnographer writes about what he
                            or she thinks is important, omitting what appears to be less
                            significant. Hence, field notes are never a complete record of what
                            happened (Atkinson, 1992). As Emerson et al. (2001) comment, there are
                            considerable differences between what different ethnographers write
                            about and the role of field notes in their research. For some
                            ethnographers, field notes both record what they observe and also record
                            their own actions, questions and reflections. Others, however, keep a
                            distinct separation between field notes as recordings (data) and their
                            own reactions and interpretations.



Lego's Play Observations


Emerson et al. (2001) distinguish between several types of field notes
                            that vary in their purpose and detail. Mental notes, for example,
                            are a conscious attempt to recall features such as the physical
                            character of a place, who said what to whom, who moved to where (Lofland
                            and Lofland, 1995). These may lead to jotted notes, the
                            commitment to writing key words and phrases overheard while the
                            ethnographer is in or at least very close to the field. These jotted
                            notes may be used later as memory joggers when it comes to constructing
                            a more detailed account. The timing and openness of making jotted notes
                            will depend on the relationship between the researcher and his or her
                            subjects. Fieldworkers may need to be sensitive when it comes to jotting
                            down notes on issues that subjects might regard as confidential or
                            embarrassing.
An important and contested issue is the place of the
                            ethnographer's personal feelings within field notes. In the past,
                            ethnographers have tended to confine descriptions of their personal
                            feelings, reactions and anxieties to personal journals and diaries (see
                            below). From the 1960s, however, most sociological ethnographers have
                            supported the inclusion of personal accounts within core field notes
                            (Emerson et al., 2001). Recording one's emotions during a
                            research project enables the ethnographer to read through field notes
                            and to identify any biases and prejudices that may have crept in, as
                            well as noticing changing views and perspectives over time (Lofland and
                            Lofland, 1995). At its most extreme form, in auto-ethnography, the
                            researcher seeks to integrate their private and social experiences
                            through personal introspection, their own 'lived emotional
                            experience' of events and interactions (Ellis, 1991: 25). It is a
                            form of ethnography where the researcher radically alters their
                            positioning by becoming a research subject (Reed-Danahay, 1997).
Before their use in the report writing process, field notes need to be
                            revised and edited, partly to ensure that extraneous elements are
                            excluded and also that anonymity of those within the account is
                            preserved. But they are also edited to ensure that they are more
                            comprehensible to a wider
                            audience (particularly when field notes are later incorporated into
                            finished texts). Hence, context and background may be added to events
                            (Emerson et al., 2001). Other ethnographers, however, prefer to retain
                            the sanctity of the original field notes and will therefore avoid or
                            minimize these editorial changes. Ethnographers, then, integrate field
                            notes into finished accounts in different ways. In what Emerson et al.
                            (2001) call an excerpt strategy, field notes are separated from
                            commentary and interpretation by indenting or using italics; field
                            notes, then, are offered as fragments of 'evidence'
                            composed close to the events themselves. An alternative approach is to
                            weave together the field notes and the interpretation, what Emerson et
                            al. (2001) call an integrative strategy. In this style, field notes and
                            ideas merge into a flowing prose written with 'a single authorial
                            voice' (Emerson et al., 2001: 364). This voice, however, is not
                            uniform. It contains within it the multiple voices of local people and
                            the divergent views arising from their different roles and
                            positions.
Diaries are similar to field notes, but are, naturally, structured by
                            date and can be in a written format or oral (audio recorded). In written
                            format they may include words but also photographs or diagrams. As Hall
                            (2008) points out, there is no standard format for diaries. They can be
                            used by the researcher to record events as well as their own personal
                            reflections, or given to respondents to log events in their lives. For
                            example, a diary could be given to a newly qualified teacher so they can
                            keep a record of their feelings, critical incidents and introspective
                            reflections on their own experience as they develop their professional
                            practice (Bailey, 1983). Given that such diaries will be read by others
                            (for example fellow practitioners or researchers), it is important
                            ethically that this lack of privacy is made explicit at the start (Hall,
                            2008). The following case study provides an example of an ethnographic
                            diary kept by a researcher investigating opportunities for the Irish
                            dairy industry in Indonesia and Vietnam by undertaking visits to
                            people's homes. Note both the diary entries and also the analytic
                            'insights' as well as the impact that photographs add to
                            the piece.

Activity 17.2
Examine Case Study 17.2. Imagine the diary without the presence of
                                the photograph, then ask yourself what the photograph adds to the
                                account. Does the use of photographs add further ethical issues to
                                ethnographic reporting?


Case Study 17.2

Example Of An Ethnographic Diary
Figure
                                            17.1 Example of an ethnographic diarySource: King, H. (2012)
                                            Indonesia and Vietnam: An Ethnographic Study
                                            Exploring the Consumer Landscape and Opportunities for
                                            the Irish Dairy Industry. Dublin: Bord Bia.
                                        Reproduced with permission




Gathering Data: Interviewing
Ethnographic interviewing can be distinguished from other forms of
                            interviewing in that it encourages interviewees to shape the questions
                            being asked and possibly even the focus of the study, resulting in data
                            being a co-production between interviewer and interviewee (Heyl, 2001).
                            Rubin and Rubin (2005: 4) refer to this as a conversation in which the
                            interviewer gently guides a 'conversational partner'. The
                            key is a concern with the meanings of actions and events to the
                            interview subjects themselves. Kvale (1996) offers two alternative
                            metaphors of the research interviewer: one as a miner and the
                            other as a traveller. The miner gathers up objective data that
                            are 'out there' ready to be discovered and culled. For the
                            traveller, the interview is a journey from which stories will emerge,
                            stemming from conversations the researcher will have along the way. The
                            route may be planned ahead of time, but it will inevitably take
                            unexpected twists and turns. What the traveller elicits in new knowledge
                            depends on his/her ability to connect with people and to build
                            relationships.



Good Ethnographic Practices Checklist


The origins of ethnographic interviewing go back to the Chicago School of
                            sociology in the 1920s and the 1930s and particularly to the work of
                            Robert Park and his call for graduate students to get out into the city and 'get the seat of
                            your pants dirty in real research' (Bulmer, 1984: 97). What
                            researchers need to know is what goes on behind the faces of other human
                            beings, the personal secrets that the researcher has to discover to
                            understand the world in which people live. The Chicago School's
                            pioneering of informal interviews and observational techniques stood in
                            sharp contrast to the large-scale standard surveys being used by
                            sociologists at the time (Heyl, 2001). Life history fits within this
                            tradition because of its focus on the meanings the interviewees give to
                            their life experiences and circumstances. The data that emerge can be
                            analysed only by paying attention to what is said, how it
                            is said and by showing ways in which the how and why are interrelated
                            (Holstein and Gubrium, 1995).
Following what became known as the linguistic, postmodern turn in the
                            1980s and 1990s, many feminists and multicultural researchers found
                            ethnographic interviewing particularly attractive because they allowed
                            for the gathering of data in relationships based upon empathy and
                            egalitarianism (Stacey, 1988), providing opportunities to hear
                            people's

ideas, memories and interpretations in their own words, to hear
                                differences among people and the meanings they construct, and to
                                forge connection over time to the interviewees. (Heyl, 2001:
                                374)

Fine (1994) takes this a stage further, suggesting that researchers and
                            informants should take time to check out what is, and is not, happening
                            between them including whose story is being told and with what
                            interpretation. As we will note in Case Study 17.4 however,
                            Stacey's personal experiences have led her to call into question
                            this equality, given the researcher's freedom to exit the world
                            they are researching.
So, what does all this mean in practice? In conducting ethnographic
                            interviewing Heyl (2001) recommends that the interviewer should:
Listen well and respectfully, developing an ethical engagement
                                    with participants.Acquire a self-awareness of his/her own role in the construction
                                    of meaning within the interview process.Be aware of the ways in which both the ongoing relationship and
                                    broader social contexts affect participants, the interview
                                    process and potential outcomes.Recognize that what emerges from the interview process is only
                                    partial knowledge.


Gathering Data: Digital Media
So far we have looked at quite traditional approaches of gathering data
                            in ethnography - observation and interviews - but, of
                            course, we now have at our disposal advanced, technological media that
                            are ideal for data collection and interacting with social worlds. These
                            include media for capturing images such as digital cameras and video
                            recorders, and include the use of smart phones since these also contain
                            digital recording facilities. Proponents of visual-based methods argue
                            that complex experiences cannot be captured by textual interpretations
                            alone (Pink, 2006) and help to provide a comprehensive and enriching
                            exploration of the social worlds of both researcher and participants
                            (Lenette and Boddy, 2013). Ruby (2007) describes an ethnographic study
                            of Oak Park, an upper-middle class suburb of Chicago renowned for its
                            success in creating and maintaining diversity. Rather than produce a
                            book, Ruby created an interactive and non-linear work with video clips,
                            still photographs and text, and in one case, a 30-minute video on DVD. The work was reflexive in
                            that the subject of his research was his hometown.

On The Web 17.1
To see the Chicago ethnographic study go to the following link and
                                type Oak Park in the search box.

http://www.der.org/

At the Documentary Educational Resources you will also see many other
                                examples of ethnographic film making and recording.



However, it is not just ethnographers who make use of digital media. For
                            example, giving participants digital cameras to take photographs of
                            their daily working lives, Warren (2012) describes how people are able
                            to document, through this visual medium, 'how people work
                            here' - what is referred to as 'photo
                            voice'. The researcher then discusses the photographs with the
                            participant. We will explore the uses of visual research methods in more
                            detail in Chapter 20. Ethnographic research
                            does not only use digital media to record the field, digital media are
                            themselves becoming a field of study. In other words, ethnographers have
                            become increasingly interested in digital media such as blogs, Internet
                            forums and social media sites and the ways in which people use and
                            interact through and within them (McKie and Ryan, 2012).



Visual Ethnography in Family Businesses




Ethical Principles In Ethnography
Ethnographic research faces particular challenges when it comes to
                            conducting research ethically. As Chapter 4
                            sought to demonstrate, the benefits of research should outweigh the
                            potential harm. Yet, as Murphy and Dingwall (2001) point out, one of the
                            difficulties in ethnography is that risks are likely to be indirect and
                            also open to interpretation. Research participants may experience
                            anxiety, stress, damage to self-esteem and feelings of guilt or a loss
                            of friendship when ethnographers withdraw from a study (as Case Study
                            17.3, below, shows). One of the most significant differences between
                            ethnography and, say, risk in pure science, is temporal positioning. In
                            experimental science, the risk of harm is largely concentrated in the
                            experiment itself. In ethnography, however, the greatest risk arises at
                            the time of publication (Murphy and Dingwall, 2001). Research
                            participants may feel wounded or offended by published ethnographic
                            material, often in ways that were unanticipated by the ethnographer
                            (Ellis, 1995). Ethnography has particular problems when it comes to
                            guaranteeing anonymity. As Murphy and Dingwall (2001) state,
                            ethnographic studies often involve a single setting or a very small
                            number of settings; field notes and interview transcripts invariably
                            record sufficient detail to make participants identifiable.
While IRBs are almost without exception strict when it comes to the need
                            for the signing of consent forms, in ethnographic studies this is not
                            always feasible, since researchers have no control over who enters the
                            field of observation. This is further complicated by the emergent nature of ethnographic research
                            design where the objectives and subjects of the research may not be
                            fully formed at the start. Fassin (2006) is critical of the role of IRBs
                            and particularly their regulation of ethnographic research, claiming
                            that their rules are more applicable to biomedical experiments than to
                            social science. According to Fassin (2006), their restrictions reduce
                            the quality of research and hence the potential of research for social
                            utility. Although Ellis (2007) agrees that the rules of IRBs are
                            helpful, she is critical, arguing that their rules are grounded on the
                            premise that research is being done on strangers. This is often not the
                            case in ethnography. The following case study reveals a poignant story
                            of how the publication of a researcher's book led to anger and
                            rupture between her and the community she was reporting.

Case Study 17.3

Challenges In Ethnographic Research
Pankey-Videla (2012) examines the implications of informed
                                    consent and other ethical issues when the institution being
                                    researched has its own sets of rules which govern action and
                                    membership. She describes her involvement in a participatory
                                    observation research study in a Mexican garment production
                                    company, where she worked pressing the seams into jackets and
                                    trousers. When she entered the field, she asked managers and her
                                    fellow workers for permission to conduct her research. However,
                                    by the end of the study she was observing and participating in a
                                    strike that included over a thousand workers, which made it
                                    impossible to obtain informed consent.
While much has been written about ethics in ethnography,
                                    Pankey-Videla (2012) argues that very little has been written
                                    about informed consent in organizational ethnography. This is
                                    because organizational researchers tend to discuss ethics in
                                    terms of obtaining informed consent from individual interviews
                                    or access to an organization as one research site. Informed
                                    consent is thus framed as a static concept, built upon a Western
                                    liberal assumption of individual autonomy and individual rights,
                                    where participation is based on informed individual's
                                    decisions. From her experience, Pankey-Videla, however, views
                                    informed consent as an ongoing process because it glosses over
                                    differential levels of power between researchers and
                                    participants (both elites and non-elites), and it obscures how
                                    the context in which research takes place affects the ability to
                                    provide consent.
The firm which Pankey-Videla calls Moctezuma was originally
                                    established in 1951 and grew to become one of the top producers
                                    of men's suits in all of Latin America. In 1996 the
                                    company reorganized from a traditional assembly line to Japanese
                                    lean production techniques with an emphasis on work teams, quick
                                    turnaround time and quality. Over 80 per cent of the 1,400
                                    strong workforce were women, while the managers were almost
                                    exclusively male. Pankey-Videla began her participation
                                    observation in July 2001 under amicable labour relations, often
                                    conducting interviews at the end of shifts. This was followed by
                                    a period of non-participant observation when she visited the
                                    factory several times a week, interviewed managers and had lunch
                                    with workers.
But in February 2001, faced with an economic downturn, the
                                    company sacked 400 workers, precipitating an all-out strike. Her
                                    identification with the workers and her personal politics meant
                                    that she was unwilling to cross a picket line, a view she shared
                                    with a manager. He responded: 'We know. You go out with
                                    the workers and then maybe you can give us more information
                                    later.' In other words he wanted her to
                                    'snitch' on the workers. She decided that if this
                                    request happened she would terminate the study. The next day she
                                    was invited to participate on a picket line inside the
                                    factory.This triggered a furious row between those workers who
                                    saw her as 'one of us' and those who believed she
                                    was a company spy. While her team-mates supported her, others hissed and
                                    hurled insults at her. Pankey-Videla comments: 'Tears of
                                    frustration, sadness, and shame overwhelmed me as workers fought
                                    over who I was.' She decided to quit the participation
                                    part of the study.
She concludes by admitting that at the outset she under-estimated
                                    the complexity of issues such as informed consent, since her
                                    fieldwork revealed constantly changing power relationships
                                    between workers and managers within the company. The fact that
                                    management had approved her research had aligned her with
                                    management in the eyes of many workers.


Source: Adapted from Pankey-Videla, 2012



Activity 17.3
Why was it possible to obtain informed consent when Pankey-Videla
                                first started work, but not once the strike had broken out? What are
                                the implications of this discussion for the ethics of ethnographic
                                practice?


Top Tip 17.4
If conducting research that has to be approved by an IRB, be aware
                                that ethnographic research may prove a challenge in terms of getting
                                ethical approval. Be cautious about making assurances of gaining
                                consent and achieving reciprocity as these might prove difficult to
                                keep.



Issues of power also come into play. Some postmodernists, for example,
                            have rejected the researcher's right to interpret experience
                            other than their own - hence, the growth of auto-ethnography.
                            Auto-ethnography, however, does not escape ethical problems since it
                            presents the actions of others from the author's perspective.
                            Ellis (2007) also points out that when writing about oneself, we also
                            write about others and so run the risk of these people becoming
                            recognizable to readers. Murphy and Dingwall (2001) ask: what is the
                            basis of the auto-ethnographer's authority to represent others,
                            and should the permission of these others be sought? A number of
                            practical steps are suggested that may increase the likelihood that
                            ethnographic research will adhere to ethical codes, namely:
Remove identifying information about respondents at the earliest
                                    opportunity.Use pseudonyms for respondents (recognizing that for small-scale
                                    communities or settings, these may not be effective).Reduce or eliminate non-relevant details about the setting and
                                    individuals (to reduce the danger of anonymity being
                                    breached).Consider undertaking ethnographical research in collaboration
                                    with research subjects.Separate out the data from the researcher's
                                    interpretations so that the nature of this interpretation is
                                    open to scrutiny by others.Consider putting more of the researcher's own presence
                                    into the research, including own emotional responses (i.e., the
                                    ethnographic self).



The Ethnographic Self
Conventional ethnography has emphasized the other lives that are
                            being observed, analysed or produced (Coffey, 1999), the ethnographer
                            serving as a biographer of others. However, the ethnographer is
                            simultaneously involved in biographical work of their own because they
                            are part of, and interacting with, the field setting. Hence, it is
                            important to recognize the reflexive nature of social research, that is,
                            we are part of the social world that we study (Allen, 1997). As
                            Hammersley and Atkinson (2007) point out, this is not a methodological
                            commitment - it is an existential fact. So, rather than
                            attempting to eliminate the effects of the researcher, we should set
                            about understanding them. Fieldwork, then, cannot be accomplished
                            without attention to the roles of the researcher including their social
                            roles and relationships and how the identity of the researcher is
                            constructed and recast during the course of the fieldwork (Coffey,
                            1999). The self is not so much complete and rounded as partial and
                            multiple which has implications for how the self interconnects with
                            others in the field. In the end, the choice is probably not between
                            immersion or not, but a recognition that the self is the product of sets
                            of complex negotiations, influenced by social norms and expectations of
                            others in the field.
Shaffir (1999) criticizes the formulaic accounts of field research prior
                            to the 1970s with ethnographers subsequently starting to deviate from
                            the stance that the researcher can adopt a value-free position. The
                            façade, no matter how neatly construed, prevents the researcher
                            from examining his or her own cultural assumptions and also from
                            analysing the personal experiences that inevitably shape research
                            processes and outcomes. Hence, researchers began to pay attention to
                            their own social and emotional experiences including

the anxieties and frustrations, the exhilaration and pride in
                                achievement, as well as the disappointments and failures. Such
                                disclosures would provide a richer and more detailed insight into
                                the world of research. (Shaffir, 1999: 680)

Yet the degree to which the researcher places him or herself within the
                            ethnographic 'story' is open to debate. Furthermore, while
                            some support the value of immersion within the field, Hammersley and
                            Atkinson (2007) sound a note of caution, arguing for the importance of
                            intellectual distance in order for the researcher to conduct analytical
                            work.


Feminist Ethnography
Feminist ethnography is one of the feminist research methodologies
                            (recall Chapter 2) and is, in fact,
                            considered by some to be particularly appropriate to feminist research
                            (Klein, 1983; Stanley and Wise, 1993). Feminist research is research
                            carried out for women (Webb, 1993), to confront women's
                            oppression, which can only be addressed if power differentials between
                            researchers and the researched are broken down. What makes ethnography
                            feminist is its explicit concern with reflexivity and the social
                            positioning of the researcher in relation to research subjects.
                            Reflexivity and self-examination are both important values in feminist
                            research (Huisman, 2008; McNamara, 2009), as is the idea of reciprocity
                            - researchers and participants are equal and both should benefit
                            from the research. However, there are a wide range of perspectives
                            within feminist methodology as well as tensions and divisions. As
                            Williams (1993) warns, feminist ethnography is diverse in respect of
                            both topic and method, indicating ontological and epistemological
                            differences.
Another feature of feminist
                            research, and particularly feminist ethnographic studies, is the stance
                            of intimacy. Becoming intimate with a subject allows for the creation of
                            an emotional connection. While the Chicago School of sociologists warned
                            of the dangers of 'over-rapport' and recommended striking
                            a balance between empathetic participation and complete engagement,
                            existential ethnographers of the 1960s and early 1970s such as Goffman,
                            argued for complete emersion to penetrate fronts (Irwin, 2006). In a
                            seminal work, Oakley (1981) argued that remaining detached while
                            research subjects bared their souls merely served to perpetuate
                            inequalities between researchers and subjects. Feminist researchers
                            began to argue for more emotional connection. However, as other feminist
                            researchers have noted, intimacy and friendliness can be false and
                            easily manipulated by the researcher to obtain rich data (Ellen, 1987).
                            In an intimate study in which she dated and then married her key
                            informant (involved in the world of professional tattooing), Irwin
                            (2006) notes that she experienced

marginality, conflicting loyalty pulls, professional and personal
                                angst, moments of intense pleasure and joy, as well as devastating
                                bouts of self-doubt and failure. (Irwin, 2006: 160)

Her conclusion, however, is unequivocal - 'Becoming
                            intimately close to setting members can do more harm than good'
                            (Irwin, 2006: 160).
Stacey (1988), in what has become a very influential article in this
                            field, also raises concerns. Feminist scholars have favoured
                            ethnographic methods as ideally suited to feminist research because of
                            their contextual, experiential approach to knowledge. It is also a
                            method that draws on what many regard to be female strengths, namely:
                            empathy and human concern, a commitment for social justice (see Case Study 17.4), and a reciprocal
                            relationship between knower and known. According to Stacey (1988),
                            however, this is ironic, since, she claims, ethnographic methods subject
                            research participants to greater risks of exploitation, betrayal and
                            abandonment by the researcher than, say, positivist research methods.
                            Fieldwork constitutes an intervention into a system of relationships
                            that the researcher is far freer than the researched to leave.

Case Study 17.4

Identifying Gendered Norms
Ozkazanc-Pan (2014) calls into question the Silicon Valley
                                    mythical entrepreneurial hero, based as it is, on the
                                    experiences of young (white) male engineers and computer
                                    scientists. Studies in this context have ignored the experiences
                                    of women-owned start up companies and have not considered how
                                    gender relations and identities are relevant to the enactment of
                                    entrepreneurship and how gender and technology intersect. One
                                    important area of consideration within this context is
                                    entrepreneurial activity by non-westerners in the
                                    'West' as they struggle to claim a legitimate
                                    'voice' in high technology. To explore these
                                    issues, Ozkazanc-Pan (2014) focused on Turkish people and their
                                    entrepreneurial activities in the Silicon Valley through which
                                    they seek to build their 'legitimate voices'.
In conducting the research she used observations and
                                    participant-observations while at the same time reflexively
                                    considering the researcher's role during fieldwork and in
                                    the production of knowledge. As a Turkish-American academic,
                                    this approach allowed her to acknowledge her own position and
                                    privilege during the
                                    research process and to engage with feminist aims of social
                                    change and gender equality in the context under study. Data
                                    gathering was based on observations and conversations at
                                    technology business conferences in Silicon Valley that were
                                    aimed to bring together Turkish and Turkish-American
                                    entrepreneurs for the purpose of networking. Participant
                                    observations lasted from about 9am to 7pm for each of the
                                    conferences.
Her findings show that women were usually a small minority of
                                    participants at these conference events - say about
                                    20-25 out of a total attendance of between 150 and 200.
                                    They were frequently shunned as male delegates went about their
                                    networking activities. Indeed, she notes that women and older
                                    males became marginalized through the emergence of a hegemonic
                                    masculinity associated with young Turkish male entrepreneurs.
                                    For example, she overheard (male) narratives arguing that to be
                                    successful, high-technology entrepreneurs have to work long
                                    hours and that these hours are only possible if the (female)
                                    spouse is assuming responsibility for the family. As
                                    Ozkazanc-Pan points out, this underlying assumption is based on
                                    gendered and socially accepted norms and roles assigned to women
                                    and men. Yet, gender is subsumed and silenced as not relevant to
                                    entrepreneurial identity, despite its centrality to the ability
                                    of married (straight) men's ability to practise
                                    entrepreneurship because women act as home keepers. Adherence to
                                    gender norms is seen as deeply rooted in Turkish culture. Women
                                    are seen as caregivers and mothers even if they work outside the
                                    home. She reflects that through her interactions at the
                                    conference she was able to observe that women (and feminized
                                    Others) had performed as 'non-tech people' such
                                    that their conversations did not reflect the norm of
                                    high-technology talk as expected by males who had approached her
                                    table.
Ozkazanc-Pan concludes that like people, ideas and practices also
                                    travel. In this case, gendered cultural norms from Turkey
                                    'arrive' in Silicon Valley and are enacted through
                                    the gendered division of labour and space.


Source: Adapted from Ozkazanc-Pan, 2014



Activity 17.4
In Case Study 17.4, explore how the feminist position of reflexivity
                                is used by the researcher.



Critical Ethnography
Ethnography has a unique capability for getting close up to sites of
                            exploitation and oppression and hence offers the ethnographic researcher
                            a unique opportunity for constructing emancipatory practices (Lather,
                            1986), probably one reason why it has been embraced by feminism (Jordan
                            and Yeomans, 1995). However, this has not always been its role. Said
                            (1989) argues that modern anthropology retains a theoretical perspective
                            and conceptual framework that has been shaped by colonialism and
                            imperialist domination. Social anthropology and colonialism were
                            contemporaneous because colonial power made the subjects of
                            anthropological study accessible. But the relationship was deeper than
                            this. According to Asad (1973), anthropology was defined by its
                            willingness to adapt to colonial ideology. The British state, for
                            example, embraced anthropology because it allowed for the collection of
                            information and data on its subject territories. In the words of Kabbani
                            (1986: 62), it was 'the colonial cataloguing of goods; the
                            anchoring of imperial possessions into discourse'.
Bourgois and Schonberg (2009:
                            17) criticize the use of ethnography in fieldwork, objecting to the ways
                            in which ethnography tends to focus on intricate details, while
                            sometimes overlooking the 'implications of structures of power
                            and of historical context' because these are not immediately
                            recognizable in the everyday. Ethnography, then, has to ask how power is
                            exercised in concrete human relations (Denzin, 1999). Conventional
                            ethnography tends to grasp only the phenomenon of everyday life without
                            apprehending the causal processes and generative mechanisms that drive
                            them. Symbolic interactionism and ethnomethodology, for example, have
                            helped to create a methodological individualism and an atomistic
                            viewpoint (Jordan and Yeomans, 1995) and so apprehend only surface
                            appearances instead of locating ethnographic research within a broader
                            political economy and power relations.
For Denzin (1999) ethnography should articulate identifiable cultural and
                            political issues including injustices based upon race, class, gender and
                            sexual orientation. 'It should criticize how things are and
                            imagine how they could be different' (Denzin, 1999: 513). Smith
                            (1987) seeks to do this through what she calls institutional
                            ethnography, where inquiry begins with the work organization within
                            which people are embedded. Jordan and Yeomans (1995) argue, however,
                            that critical ethnography has been more successful in addressing
                            academic audiences than those it purports to engage with for social
                            change. To achieve a more emancipatory ethnography, Jordan and Yeomans
                            (1997) recommend drawing on the process of action research (as discussed
                            in Chapter 13). What action research
                            offers is the redefinition of the relationship between the researcher
                            and the researched. In action research, the role of the professional
                            researcher is severely circumscribed, hence avoiding the privileging of
                            the ethnographer. Action research is also a comfortable partner to
                            ethnography because it is a form of research conducted by practitioners
                            to improve rationality and social justice (Kemmis, 1993). The following
                            case study explores some of the political and ethical problems faced by
                            a critical management research study, conducted through ethnography.

Case Study 17.5

The Challenges Of Abiding By Ethical Codes
One of the issues facing many ethnographic researchers is that of
                                    access, especially to organizations where gatekeepers may be
                                    suspicious and concerned that organizational practices will
                                    become exposed to public scrutiny. Furthermore, they may not see
                                    any benefits from becoming involved in long-term, in-depth
                                    research given the demands this makes on organizational time.
                                    Access is particularly difficult for researchers who follow a
                                    critical perspective. Alcadipani and Hodgson ( 2009) relate a
                                    study during which one of the authors, a proponent of critical
                                    management studies (CMS), faced a range of severe ethical
                                    dilemmas.
The main research aim was to conduct a critical ethnographic
                                    study exploring organizational change on individuals working in
                                    an industry in decline, the newspaper industry. Negotiations for
                                    access started with three distinct but interconnected
                                    organizations: RedPaper, FailCo and OneCo. RedPaper is a
                                    regional newspaper that was moving production from one printing
                                    site (FailCo) to another (OneCo) at a cost of £45m. After
                                    sending a proposal to the managing director (MD) of RedPaper, it
                                    was four months before the researcher received a reply giving
                                    the go ahead but at a meeting the MD stated: 'You can only do interviews.
                                    You will need to send all questions you will ask people in
                                    advance. I will select the questions you can ask and the people
                                    you can speak to.' The researcher replied he could not
                                    accept this due to methodological and ethical constraints.
                                    Finally, it was agreed that the researcher would shift the focus
                                    of the research to the printing sites.
A new proposal was submitted covering FailCo and OneCo. However,
                                    the print director (PD) of RedPaper commented that access to
                                    FailCo would be difficult due to poor relations between the
                                    companies. He added: 'they might think you are spying for
                                    us'. He also commented: 'You will be my eyes and
                                    ears in this project - you will be our man on the
                                    ground.' The researcher was extremely unhappy with these
                                    remarks but decided to keep quiet. The RedPaper MD made it clear
                                    to those at OneCo that they would collaborate with the
                                    researcher. As the researcher comments, as a CMS-orientated
                                    researcher, it felt uncomfortable taking advantage of
                                    hierarchical structures of control, the self-same structures
                                    that critical management studies sought to critique.
The fieldwork itself was no less problematic. A customary
                                    response to requests for consent was: 'F*ck off,
                                    mate, you always ask this sh*t. Of course I agree
                                    pal.' People answered questions but there were doubts as
                                    to whether this was a free choice. In the field the researcher
                                    routinely witnessed instances of sabotage, bullying and racism
                                    towards Asian workers and managers. An HR manager asked for
                                    information about this, but the researcher chose not to divulge
                                    any information on the grounds that it would breach the ethical
                                    guidelines underpinning the research. But as the researcher
                                    comments: 'This was a paradoxical situation because to
                                    protect some people from harm I keep silent about
                                    people's attitudes and actions that were clearly harming
                                    others.' Ironically, despite feelings of guilt, adherence
                                    to the ethical guidelines allowed the researcher to keep the
                                    research going - despite his critical research
                                    commitments. The researcher concludes that during fieldwork,
                                    researchers face situations that are beyond what ethical
                                    guidelines would predict. As a result he faced a constant
                                    tension between adherence to ethics, his desire to keep the
                                    research going, his commitment to critical management studies,
                                    and his conscience.


Source: Adapted from Alcadipani and Hodgson, 2009



Activity 17.5
In Case Study 17.5, as a critical management studies
                                researcher, what steps, if any, could the researcher have adopted,
                                that were different to the ones actually taken? What would have been
                                the consequences?



Sculpting The Truth In Ethnographic Accounts
Ethnographic studies can provide nuanced, comprehensive reports on a
                            particular problem or set of problems, but the results of ethnographic
                            research are often regarded as lacking in validity, reliability and
                            generalizability (LeCompte and Goetz, 1982). Taking reliability, ethnography deals with
                            natural settings where the idiosyncrasy of themes may be difficult to
                            replicate elsewhere. However, because human behaviour is never static
                            this is a problem faced by all research methods. LeCompte and Goetz
                            (1982) advise that, while settings cannot be replicated, ethnographers
                            should work instead to generate, refine and validate the constructs they
                            are seeking to study. If this is done well, then other researchers can
                            work to replicate these constructs in other settings. But the
                            ethnographer's findings are influenced by the
                            investigator's social role within the research site; other
                            researchers can only attain comparable findings if they develop a
                            corresponding social position or have partners who can do so (LeCompte
                            and Goetz, 1982). Internal reliability is aided by the use of multiple
                            researchers in the field and by peer examination of ethnographic
                            accounts. The latter requires that the researcher provides sufficient
                            primary data in the account so that others can gauge the correspondence
                            between data and interpretation (Wolcott, 1994).
In principle, one of the strengths of ethnography is the high internal
                            validity derived from long periods in the field, continual data analysis
                            and the refining of categories to match these categories to reality.
                            Secondly, interview instruments are closely informed by the language and
                            'natural' categories used by participants, while
                            observation is conducted in natural settings that reflect the reality of
                            the subjects' everyday experiences (see Image 17.2). However,
                            given the intimate nature of most ethnographic research and the rapport
                            built between researcher and subjects, researcher bias can seriously
                            skew the results (Schneider, 2006b). This is one reason why reflexivity
                            is used to make the researcher's views (biased or otherwise) as
                            transparent as possible. The credibility of informant reports in
                            interviewing must also be scrutinized. Since respondents may lie,
                            exaggerate or omit data, the researcher may wish to elicit independent
                            corroboration from multiple informants (LeCompte and Goetz, 1982).
Short and Hughes (2009) argue that the social sciences have made
                            considerable progress in improving the reliability of data through
                            developing more sophisticated protocols and instruments, triangulating
                            data sources, and sampling targeted populations. However, validity
                            remains a problem because studies of 'moving targets of social
                            life' such as families, peer groups, neighbourhoods and
                            institutions can never fully capture their reality (Short and Hughes,
                            2009: 398). The best that we can do is take snapshots. Short and Hughes
                            argue that ethnographic methods are often necessary to determine how
                            conclusions based on quantitative data translate to the everyday life of
                            groups and individuals.
An example of how an ethnographer strove to increase the validity of his
                            research is provided by one of the originators of ethnography,
                            Malinowski himself. Roldan (2002) describes how Malinowski used three
                            analytical procedures to improve the validity of his research:
                            triangulation or comparison of distinct data sources (using several
                            informants) and different methods (interviews and observations); a
                            constant validity check by looking for both consistencies and
                            inconsistencies in the data and the seeking of alternative descriptions
                            and explanations; and analytic induction or the acknowledgement of
                            negative evidence. In the text he also introduced cases as descriptions
                            of typical or a-typical beliefs. Above all, he was meticulous in reading
                            his text, checking, coding, indexing, sorting, rearranging and merging
                            information from his field notes in order to produce his analysis. He
                            was also careful to check informants' reports against more
                            objective evidence such as observations wherever possible.
External validity (generalizability) is always going to be a challenge
                            for ethnographic research (even assuming the researcher sees this as
                            worthy of effort), because ethnography examines a particular setting
                            within its historical and present-day context. However, as Schneider
                            (2006a) points out, by using the same general methods and examining the
                            same kind of organizations, studies can achieve a certain level of
                            replicability. Comparing and contrasting such studies might reveal
                            nuanced differences but also patterns that repeat across contexts. While
                            this may seem similar to replication across case studies, it is
                            different because ethnographic research involves long-term engagement in
                            the field. LeCompte and Goetz (1982) agree, arguing that the key of
                            achieving external validity is the identification and description of
                            those characteristics of a phenomenon that are salient for comparison
                            with other, similar types.
Image 17.2
                                Brainstorming session© iStock.com / Yuri_Arcurs


Recording The Miracle
The ethnographic report (the ethnography) attempts to be as holistic and
                            encompassing as possible, the success or failure of the report depending
                            on the degree to which it rings true for participants in the field
                            (Fetterman, 2010). A written report is the most common type of
                            ethnography output, but a wide variety of other media are also possible,
                            including charts, diagrams, photographs and various audio and visual
                            digital media including websites. Whatever media are used, producing the
                            account can be a daunting experience, trying to translate a vivid world
                            of noises, sights, smells and a world of embodied people where the
                            visual is imported into an oral, written medium (Rock, 2001). The danger
                            is that the analysis can become too much like storytelling in which the
                            imagination is allowed to dominate and where fragments, simplifications
                            and gaps can be glossed over in an attempt to give coherence to the data
                            (Rock, 2001).

On The Web 17.2
For an example of how an ethnographic report combines text with both
                                historic and contemporary photographs to describe the culture of US
                                Everglades 'Gladesmen' see:

http://www.evergladesplan.org/pm/progr_master_rec_plan_gladesmen.aspx#report

In the report, note the use of both maps and photographs.



A fundamental question is
                            whether the self remains invisible in the writing of the ethnographic
                            account, becomes part of the account, or is the entire subject of the
                            account (auto-ethnography). Certainly, feminist ethnography places
                            importance on the emotional dimension of research and the crafting of
                            self-conscious, self-revelatory and confessional accounts. As Coffey
                            (1999) points out, these confessional or biographical stories can be
                            presented as parallel but separate texts, or can be woven into the
                            account itself. Although some see this as somehow polluting the
                            narrative, Atkinson (1990) argues that this mingling of text creates
                            greater authenticity and presents multiple voices.
Adopting a first-person position limits the perspective to what the
                            ethnographer witnessed, experienced or knows. However, the first-person
                            stance locates the ethnographer firmly within the group or community he
                            or she is studying (Emerson et al., 2001). In contrast, a third-person
                            account where the ethnographer is invisible from the account achieves a
                            tone of detachment, distance and objectivity. However, the danger here
                            is that the ethnographer can easily slip into an omniscient viewpoint,
                            privileging the ethnographer's account above all others.
                            Different approaches and examples based in an office setting on a study
                            of how workers are 'terminated' is presented in Table 17.1.





Summary
Ethnography is a qualitative research method that seeks to
                                    understand cultural phenomena that reflect the knowledge and
                                    meanings that guide the life of cultural groups within their own
                                    environment.The origins of ethnography lie in anthropology and later
                                    sociology but today can be found in a wide range of disciplines
                                    including communication studies, history and cultural
                                    studies.Doing fieldwork involves deciding on what field or context in
                                    which to conduct the research, getting access and gaining
                                    acceptance within the field, conducting the fieldwork itself and
                                    leaving the field (getting out) in as ethical and acceptable a
                                    way as possible.Data gathering involves participant observation, interviews and
                                    also the use of documents and other unobtrusive measures.Conducting ethically principled research is a particular
                                    challenge for ethnographers, given their often long-term
                                    engagement in the field and the development of close
                                    relationships and friendships with those that they observe.Ethnography demands that not only do researchers immerse
                                    themselves in the field, but they also act reflexively when
                                    collecting data; the ethnographer's interactions with
                                    others in the field become part of the data.The ethnographic report (the ethnography) attempts to be as
                                    holistic and encompassing as possible. The success or failure of
                                    the report depends on the degree to which it rings true for
                                    participants in the field.In the ethnographic account, the researcher's
                                    positionality can be invisible, present but separate in the
                                    text, fully integrated into the account, or the account
                                    itself.

Review Questions
Why is reflexivity a key component of ethnographic research?
                                        How does the researcher become reflexive?What are the advantages and disadvantages of a feminist
                                        anthropology in the construction of ethnographic
                                        knowledge?Establishing rapport within the field setting can be a
                                        double-edged weapon. Why do you think that this is a
                                        particular challenge in ethnography?Why is it so challenging to undertake ethical ethnographic
                                        research? What steps would you take to make your
                                        ethnographic research ethical?Should ethnographic studies pay attention to issues of
                                        validity and reliability? If not, what should they pay
                                        attention to?Positionality is important in ethnographic research. To what
                                        extent should the presence of the researcher be part of the
                                        ethnographic account?



Observation checklist





Further Reading
Atkinson, P.A., Delamont, S., Coffey, A.J., Lofland, J. and Lofland, L.H.
                            (eds) (2007) A Handbook of Ethnography. London: Sage. A book that
                            presents previously published articles on a wide range of issues
                            including symbolic interactionism and ethnography, grounded theory and
                            ethnography, ethnographic interviewing and ethics in ethnography.
Coffey, A. (1999) The Ethnographic Self: Fieldwork and the
                                Representation of Identity. London: Sage. In this much
                            referenced text, the author explores the relationship between the self
                            and ethnographic fieldwork, particularly focusing on the personal,
                            emotional and identity issues that emerge in undertaking prolonged
                            fieldwork.
Fetterman, D.M. (2010) Ethnography: Step-by-Step, 3rd edn.
                            Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage. Apart from guiding the reader in the essentials
                            of collecting, maintaining and interpreting data, this book also takes
                            on the theme of technology and ethnography.
Hammersley, M. and Atkinson, P. (2007) Ethnography: Principles in
                                Practice, 3rd edn. London: Routledge. This classic account of
                            ethnography presents examples from ethnographic research, with the aim
                            of linking theory and practice. Offers guidance on gaining access to the
                            field, interviewing, recording and analysing data and the role of
                            ethics.
Madden, R. (2010) Being Ethnographic. London: Sage. A clear and
                            useful book that draws heavily on the author's own experience of
                            undertaking ethnographic research.
Pink, S. (2013) Doing Visual Ethnography, 3rd edn. London: Sage.
                            Explores the potential of photography, video and hypermedia in
                            ethnography and social research. Provides a reflexive approach to
                            practical, theoretical and methodological issues.
Taylor, S. (2002) Ethnographic Research - A Reader. London:
                            Sage. Presents ten articles that introduce students to a broad range of
                            ethnographic research studies in the social sciences.


Journal Resources
Evans, G. (2012) 'Practising participant observation: An
                            anthropologist's account', Journal of Organizational
                                Ethnography, 1(1): 96-106. Provides an anthropological
                            viewpoint on the debate about the uses and abuses of the method of
                            ethnography in the field of commercially motivated research.
Gallant, M. (2008) 'Using an ethnographic case study approach to
                            identify socio-cultural discourse: A feminist post-structural
                            view', Education, Business and Society: Contemporary Middle
                                Eastern Issues, 1(4): 244-254. Uses a case study,
                            ethnographic approach to identify dominant socio-cultural discourse
                            using a feminist post-structural lens.
Vinten, G. (1994) 'Participant observation: A model for
                            organizational investigation?', Journal of Managerial
                                Psychology, 9(2): 30-38. Addresses and refutes some of
                            the critiques of participant observation.

Don't forget to visit the companion website at https://study.sagepub.com/grayresearchbusiness for the
                                following resources which support this chapter:

















18 Focus Groups

Chapter Introduction

Chapter Outline
The uses and benefits of focus groupsThe limitations of focus groupsOrganizing focus groups - an overviewFocus groups and research designSpecial issues in focus group researchEpistemological considerations and focus groupsEthical considerations and focus groups


Keywords
Focus groupsSamplingResearch designModerationEthics



Icon Key







Author Video







Chapter Objectives
After reading this chapter you will be able to:
Describe the origins and purpose of focus groups.Identify situations in which the use of focus groups is
                                        appropriate.Plan a focus group, including selecting participants.Develop appropriate questions for a focus group.Facilitate the running of a focus group, taking into account
                                        epistemological and ethical principles.Plan approaches to data analysis.



A focus group is essentially an organized discussion among a selected
                            group of individuals with the aim of eliciting information about their
                            views. The purpose is to gain a range of perspectives about subjects and
                            situations. While similar to group interviewing, they are not the same.
                            In group interviews a number of people are interviewed at the same time.
                            In focus groups, however, the purpose is to generate interactions and
                            discussions within the group. Indeed, through the provision of a
                            'safe' environment, focus groups aim to promote
                            self-disclosure among participants, through generating group dynamics
                            within discussions (Freeman, 2006). In the realm of qualitative
                            research, focus groups lie somewhere between naturalistic observation
                            and individual interviews (Seal, Bogart and Ehrhardt, 1998).



Market Research Example


Focus groups were first developed in the 1940s by Robert Merton at the
                            Bureau of Applied Social Research in the USA, an organization dedicated
                            to mass communication research. After that, academics rather lost
                            interest, but focus groups were taken up with enthusiasm by the
                            practitioner, market research community in the 1950s. In the 1980s they
                            were rediscovered by the academic community (Krueger and Casey, 2009)
                            since when they have been an essential part of qualitative social
                            research, exploring people's opinions, beliefs and perceptions
                            about products, services, ideas and concepts (Freeman, 2006). They are
                            used in many different fields, including:
Marketing research where corporations are interested in the
                                    views of consumers about their products or services, as well as
                                    their perceptions about price, retail environments and their
                                    reactions to advertising.Academics including sociologists, psychologists, and health,
                                    education, management and organizational behaviour
                                    researchers.Political scientists and governments who want to gauge public
                                    opinion to proposed new policies.Marginalized groups or people with inadequate literacy or
                                    language in the dominant culture that limits the use of more
                                    traditional research methods such as interviews.
Today, focus groups are no less popular with marketing specialists. For
                            example, some multinational corporations have specialist facilities
                            dedicated to testing products with consumers. Products are arranged in
                            dedicated rooms and the eye movements of focus group participants are
                            measured (they wear special spectacles) as they enter the room to see
                            which products attract their attention. Focus group meetings follow at
                            which their choices, and the reasons for them, are discussed. The name
                            of the organization is not revealed, so that participants'
                            responses are not influenced. These specialist facilities are usually
                            located in towns or cities in which the demographics are ideal -
                            a mix of income groups and ethnicities so that heterogeneous samples can
                            be picked. As we will see in this chapter, the choice of samples is
                            often an important theme in focus groups.
Image 18.1 A focus
                                group in action© iStock.com /
                                monkeybusinessimages


The Uses And Benefits Of Focus Groups
One of the most beneficial features of focus groups is their
                            'robust versatility for shedding light on almost any topic or
                            issue' (Stewart et al., 2007: 42). Compared to large-scale
                            surveys, for example, they can be assembled relatively quickly and
                            cheaply and provide data which researchers can begin analysing almost
                            immediately the focus group session is finished. They also provide
                            opportunities for the clarification of responses, for posing additional
                            probing questions and for the observation of non-verbal responses such
                            as gestures, smiles and frowns (Stewart et al., 2007). Unlike research
                            methods such as interviews, focus groups allow for the synergistic
                            building up of data as respondents add to the views expressed by others.
                            Indeed, a research study by Seal et al. (1998) suggested that interviews
                            may be better used to identify the range and depth of individual values
                            and beliefs, but group settings may be better at generating discussion
                            around shared and unshared attitudes and experiences.
Focus groups can be used at the exploratory stage of a study (Krueger,
                            1998), for example, when the themes or boundaries of a subject are
                            unknown or unclear, and when the key constructs for investigation need
                            to be identified. For example, a company wants to develop an
                            understanding of why staff turnover has increased steeply over the last
                            five years. Before it conducts a survey through a questionnaire, it
                            needs to ascertain the main themes and issues the survey instrument is
                            going to address. A focus group made up of managers, and another of
                            human resources staff, might begin to identify a range of valid themes.
                            Focus groups, then, are a useful starting point for exploring respondents' views
                            about objects and events, allowing for the subsequent design of
                            closed-end survey items. This combination of focus groups followed by a
                            survey, is of course, an example of mixed methods research discussed in
                                Chapter 8. Focus groups can also be
                            used at the confirmatory stage of research. For example, when marketing
                            research has yielded inconclusive results about a product, focus groups
                            can tease out more subtle sources of a product's appeal or lack
                            of it. While Basch (1987) suggests that focus groups are not useful for
                            traditional hypothesis testing, Stewart et al. (2007) argue that it is
                            common for focus groups to be used for the purpose of developing
                            hypotheses that may be later tested quantitatively.
Focus groups allow researchers to explore the feelings, attitudes,
                            beliefs, prejudices, reactions and experiences of a subject, in a way
                            that would not be so accessible through other approaches such as
                            observation, interview or survey. Sometimes these views might be held
                            individually and be independent of a social setting, but often they will
                            emerge from social interactions with other individuals and groups. For
                            Morgan and Krueger (1993), focus groups can be particularly effective
                            when there are issues of power within the group, when the culture of a
                            group is of interest, and when researchers want to explore the degree of
                            consensus around a subject. Indeed, Kitzinger (1995) points out that
                            focus groups are particularly useful when researching cross-cultural
                            issues and ethnic minorities because the technique is sensitive to
                            detecting cultural variables. However, as Winslow, Honein and Elzubeir
                            (2002) warn, what is assumed to work in, say, Western societies may not
                            transfer across other cultures.
Focus groups can achieve what Lindlof and Taylor (2002) call a chain or
                            cascade effect, where listening to other people's memories and
                            experiences triggers ideas in other participants. This is particularly
                            the case where participants realize that they share a common experience,
                            and feel that their views are validated and supported by others. So, for
                            example, employees who have been the victims of workplace bullying might
                            be more willing to talk about their experiences in front of others who
                            have shared a similar traumatic experience. Above all, focus groups help
                            to clarify similarities and differences between the opinions and values
                            held by participants (Freeman, 2006). According to Kitzinger (1994,
                            1995), focus groups can:
Facilitate the collection of data on group norms.Encourage a greater variety of communication between
                                    participants.Provide insight into the operation of group/social processes in
                                    the articulation of knowledge.Encourage open conversations about sensitive subjects that might
                                    be left less developed through a one-to-one interview.Use conflict between participants to clarify why they
                                    believe what they do.Explore turning points in arguments when people change their
                                    minds and document how facts and stories operate in
                                    practice.Encourage participation from people who do not want to be
                                    interviewed on their own.Facilitate discussions on sensitive subjects or sexual
                                    harassment at work.Help to empower and motivate participants as part of an action
                                    research project.
However, some commentators also note some of the limitations of focus
                            groups, or advocate their use with caution.


The Limitations Of Focus Groups
One of the limitations of focus groups is that moderators have less
                            control or influence over processes and outcomes, than if, say, the data
                            were being collected through an interview (Morgan, 1997). The
                            conversations, discussions and even arguments can take on a flow and
                            life of their own. However, if the moderator were to step in to redirect
                            the flow of dialogue, this would defeat the point of the exercise. But
                            this means that some focus group members may come to dominate the discussions, whilst
                            others may say little or nothing unless prompted. As Kitzinger (1994)
                            points out, one of the downsides of group dynamics is that the group may
                            censor deviations from group norms or standards.
Locating and persuading respondents to take part may also be a challenge.
                            An interview, particularly if it is structured, may take only a few
                            minutes to complete. A focus group session, however, might take up at
                            least an hour, or often longer. It may be necessary, therefore, to offer
                            some kind of incentive such as gift vouchers, a prize draw or similar
                            inducement. As Kitzinger (1995) also points out, focus groups are not
                            appropriate when it is essential to maintain confidentiality, since, by
                            design, views are expressed in a group environment.
As discussed in 'Epistemological considerations and focus
                            groups', below, one of the drawbacks of focus groups is that they
                            are often composed of convenience samples, hence limiting the
                            generalizability of the results. Indeed, as Stewart et al. (2007)
                            caution, people who are willing to travel to a focus group location and
                            give up one or two hours of their time, may be quite different to the
                            population under discussion, at least on dimensions such as compliance
                            and deference. Furthermore, the responses of members of the group are
                            not independent of each other, which further limits the generalizability
                            of the results.
There may be further difficulties at the analysis stage. The discursive
                            nature of the data often means that summarization and interpretation of
                            the results can be challenging. The results may also have been
                            contaminated by the moderator providing cues as to what kinds of answers
                            are desirable, certainly a danger if the moderator is inexperienced. Table 18.1 provides a summary of
                            the strengths and weaknesses of using focus groups.


Adapted from Halcomb, E.J., Gholizadeh, L.,
                                DiGiacomo, M., Phillips, J. and Davidson, P.M. (2007)
                                'Literature review: considerations in undertaking focus group
                                research with culturally and linguistically diverse groups',
                                    Journal of Clinical Nursing, 16(6): 1000-11.
                                Reprinted by kind permission of John Wiley and Sons



Organizing Focus Groups - An Overview
Figure 18.1 outlines the steps required in planning and
                            organizing a focus group, each of which is discussed in more detail
                            below.



Planning & Designing Focus Groups


Figure 18.1 Steps
                                in the design and running of a focus groupSource: Adapted from Stewart et al.,
                                2007

Identify Problem/Formulate Research Question
Focus groups are not just an open discussion. They do, as their name
                                implies, have a focus, hence they must have an agenda and seek
                                answers to a specified problem. Defining a problem allows for the
                                generation of a clear statement about the kinds of information
                                needed and what kinds of research methods are most appropriate. For
                                example, a study that seeks to measure the impact of reward policies
                                on employee motivation is best answered by an experimental design,
                                not a focus group. However, a study that involves whether workers in
                                a nuclear plant understand, and wish to implement, safety
                                regulations could be addressed through focus group research.
                                Specifying the research problem in turn helps in the development of
                                research questions and subsequently the writing of questions to be
                                posed in the focus group itself.



Identify Sampling Frame/Recruit Participants
As we saw in Chapter 9, a sampling frame is
                                the operational definition of the population. While it is important
                                to have a sound sampling frame in large scale research such as
                                surveys, this is less important for focus groups because it is less
                                easy to generalize beyond the focus group to the population. Hence,
                                the sampling frame needs to be only a good approximation to the
                                population of interest (Stewart et al., 2007). So, if the research
                                was concerned with gauging the views of owners of small and
                                medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), using membership lists of local
                                Chambers of Commerce would suffice. However, in doing this, you need
                                to consider and acknowledge that membership organizations like
                                Chambers of Commerce may represent a disproportionate number of
                                certain types or sizes of organization, so the sample may not be
                                truly representative.



Case Studies in Research: Small and
                                        Medium Sized Enterprises


The diversity, or otherwise, of a group may be difficult to plan. A
                                highly diverse group, say in terms of social class, status or
                                seniority (for example, fans from the same football club), might
                                reveal a wide range of viewpoints, but only if participants are
                                sufficiently relaxed and confident to speak in each other's
                                presence. Conversely, a highly heterogeneous group (for example, all
                                members of the same professional association) might bond well and
                                elicit contributions from all members - but responses might
                                be bland and somewhat repetitive. Morgan (1998) suggests that focus
                                group members prefer to meet with those who they consider have
                                similar characteristics and levels of knowledge to themselves.
                                Groups should also be homogeneous in terms of culture and language
                                (Strickland, 1999) while Halcomb et al. (2007) argue that
                                consideration should also be given to gender and age. In some
                                non-Western cultures it is considered impolite for younger people to
                                proffer opinions that are different to those of older members of the
                                group. The diversity or homogeneity of focus groups may partly be
                                determined by the epistemological stance of the researcher -
                                see 'Epistemological considerations and focus groups',
                                below.
From a practical perspective, Kahan (2001) suggests that homogeneity
                                helps focus groups generate interactions, so multiple
                                homogeneous groups can be used, each group selected to represent
                                different kinds of stakeholder or status level. Similarly, Krueger
                                and Casey (2009) argue for the use of three or four focus groups
                                with each type of participant so that patterns and themes can be
                                identified and data saturation achieved (see Chapter
                                    25). Recruiting participants to a focus group takes more
                                organizing than most other forms of data gathering method, partly
                                because a group of people must be identified and invited. MacIntosh
                                (1981) recommends that the ideal size for this group should be
                                between six and eight participants, with the session lasting between
                                one and two hours, while Krueger (1994) recommends between six and
                                12 members. The first step in recruiting to a focus group is
                                screening for eligibility, often on factors such as demographics:
                                age, gender, occupation, community role, etc. When the research
                                requires different kinds of focus group, this screening is
                                essential. Having identified participants, they can be contacted by
                                letter, email or personally. This communication will set out the
                                overall purpose of the research and make clear that a focus group
                                discussion is involved. The importance of the individual's
                                participation should be noted, as should any reward structure such
                                as payment if any is provided. The date, start and end times of the
                                focus group should be given, with the time of arrival normally
                                20-30 minutes prior to the start. On a practical note,
                                Stewart et al. (2007) suggest recruiting slightly more people than
                                needed in case some participants drop out. Indeed, some researchers
                                have reported that up to 20 per cent of participants fail to attend
                                (Beaudin and Pelletier, 1996). Having invited participants, it is
                                also prudent to follow this up with a telephone call or email the
                                day before the focus group meeting to reduce the likelihood of
                                'no shows'.


Top Tip 18.1
Avoid using large groups of participants. Generally, a group
                                        size of about six is ideal. Larger numbers make the group
                                        dynamics harder to manage and may divert you from the
                                        purpose of the exercise, eliciting data for analysis.





Identify Moderator And Others
Moderators must be appointed who fit the needs of the participants in
                                the focus group (Krueger and Casey, 2009). So, for example, a
                                moderator skilled in and empathetic to working with vulnerable
                                groups might not be suited to running a focus group for web
                                designers. But whatever the subject under discussion, the moderator
                                should be an experienced facilitator, not necessarily a subject
                                matter expert (Langer, 2001). When working with a group from a
                                particular ethnic group or culture, Halcomb et al. (2007) suggest
                                that the moderator is ethnically similar to this group, a perceived
                                similarity that might assist in reducing communication barriers. But
                                whatever their 'fit' with participants, all moderators
                                should understand, and be able to work with, unfolding group
                                dynamics, and be able to 'orchestrate' the workings of
                                the group. This might mean encouraging quieter members to speak,
                                calming down more vociferous members who like to dominate
                                discussions, and ensuring that the group keeps on task (see Table 18.2).




On The Web 18.1
Take a look at bad focus group moderation in action at:

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0sSZTWp21Fk

(The URL for this useful video link can be accessed via the
                                    companion website: https://study.sagepub.com/grayresearchbusiness.)






Common Moderator Mistakes


The question of structure is also important. Moderators will need to
                                concentrate on structure and direction when seeking to control
                                dominant group members, but will probably flex into a more
                                unstructured style once the group has developed its own dynamics.
                                Neveril (2004) and Hunter, Bailey and Taylor (1994) offer between
                                them a range of approaches that a moderator should use:
Make a good first impression. Establish the tone by making
                                        eye contact, smiling etc.Be clear about intentions and expectations. Introduce self.
                                        Welcome the participants. State clearly what the focus group
                                        is about and establish ground rules (see Table 18.2). Explain
                                        what will come out of it (e.g. a report or article). Do
                                            not ask if there are any questions at this point
                                        as this may lead to a long discussion that delays the
                                            start.Create a comfortable atmosphere for participants. Ensure
                                        temperature is at the right level, seats comfortable,
                                        lighting acceptable.Be awake - listen, look, sense what is happening in
                                        the room.Be your natural self - avoid being over formal.Use clear language.Request personal stories.Use self-disclose to encourage self-disclosure of
                                        participants.Be comfortable with silences.Bring to the fore patterns (consistencies and
                                        inconsistencies).Be culturally sensitive.Have fun.

Top Tip 18.2
Keeping discussions 'on topic' can sometimes be
                                    quite a challenge, even for experienced moderators. The use of a
                                    flipchart can help here. The list of topics introduced at the
                                    beginning of the session can be noted on the flipchart, so
                                    everyone can see the agenda. New themes that emerge during the
                                    discussion can also be added as the group progresses. However,
                                    do use flipcharts sparingly and spend a minimum of time standing
                                    in front of them so as not to appear to dominate the group.



Top Tip: Moderating Focus Groups





Keeping People Focused





Image 18.2
                                    Facilitator using a flipchart to elicit discussion© iStock.com / vgajic
In addition to a moderator, Kahan (2001) also suggests the use of a
                                rapporteur whose job it is to take notes (subject to the approval of
                                the participants) especially in circumstances where the sensitivity
                                of the discussion makes video or audio recording unethical or
                                unfeasible. The rapporteur should use a laptop or tablet to take
                                notes - including notes on non-verbal communication and
                                participant interactions (Halcomb et al., 2007). When the topic is
                                highly technical, for example the siting of a nuclear power station,
                                then a subject matter expert might be used to provide detailed
                                information to group participants. Generally, those who commission
                                the research should be
                                discouraged from attending as they have too much of a vested
                                interest in the results and merely add to the number of observers.
                                Once the session has ended, the moderator and rapporteur should get
                                together and discuss the quality of the field notes (see
                                'Record data', below). Napolitano, McCauley, Beltran
                                and Philips (2002) also suggest the use of an assistant moderator
                                whose role it is to take notes not on the verbal discourse but to
                                observe and record group dynamics. Stewart et al. (2007) call this
                                role an observer, who must sit away from the main group so they are
                                seen to be independent of the group. They should be introduced by
                                name only as more detail might reveal too much about the purpose of
                                the research and bias responses.


Book And Prepare Facilities Including Room
Location is important, with a 'neutral' venue being
                                preferable to avoid participants having a particular response to a
                                building or setting (Powell and Single, 1996). For example, a
                                research project seeking to investigate the problems small and
                                medium-sized enterprises face in accessing finance would not meet in
                                a bank. This would also fit with the advice of Winslow et al. (2002)
                                that the setting should be similar to one in which the target group
                                would normally congregate. The nearer the location is to
                                participants' home or workplace, the more likely they are to
                                attend. Travel time is typically more critical than distance.
                                Psychology also plays a part. If a location is perceived to be in,
                                say, an area of deprivation where personal safety might be an issue
                                (particularly for young people and women), then this might affect
                                both numbers who will attend the focus group and its
                                composition.
Having booked meeting facilities it is essential to ensure that
                                seating arrangements aid rather than hamper group discussions. Seats
                                arranged in a horseshoe shape, so participants face each other,
                                encourages discussion. However, particularly if they do not know
                                each other, some groups prefer a barrier such as a table between
                                them. Cultural issues may play a part. Halcomb et al. (2007) point
                                out that the Asian style of focus group would customarily provide a
                                desk for people to sit at because this would be seen as a welcome
                                physical defence without which participants would feel
                                uncomfortable.
Image 18.3
                                    Different focus group set ups© Jai Seaman© Jai Seaman



Generate And Pilot Interview Questions
We examined some of the principles of question design in Chapter 14. Here, then, we
                                discuss some of the more specialist issues in relation to question
                                design for focus groups, the first of which is: How many questions
                                should be asked in a focus group? Krueger and Casey (2009) advise
                                about 12 questions for a two hour focus group session. Stewart et
                                al. (2007), however, suggest that the more complex the topic, the
                                more emotionally charged the topic or the greater the heterogeneity
                                of the group, the fewer the questions that can be covered. Given
                                that one of the key purposes of focus groups is to encourage
                                discussion, questions will be open in nature. So, questions might
                                take a format such as:
When you saw the news about X, what was your immediate
                                        response?What did you think when you first saw Y?What do you feel now when you recall Z?
Note that these questions are quite general and do not draw attention
                                to any specific dimension or aspect. More specific questions do,
                                indeed, add a dimension. Hence:
When you saw the news about the factory collapse, what were
                                        your immediate thoughts about the effectiveness of the
                                        emergency services?What did you think about its aesthetic appeal when you first
                                        saw the new Porsche?What do you feel now when you recall the negative attitude
                                        towards the new CEO?
There needs to be a balance between general and more specific
                                questions. Here a number of commentators recommend a
                                'funnel' approach as a frame for questioning (Morgan,
                                1997). Through this method, an introductory question is used to
                                stimulate group discussion, allowing the moderator to gain an
                                insight into the basic opinions of the group. After this, questions
                                gradually narrow with transition questions before core, key
                                questions are posed. A final 'catch all' question
                                provides closure to the session. Stewart et al. (2007) offer a
                                similar approach, arguing that questions should move from the
                                general to the specific and from the most important to the less
                                important. Figure 18.2 (a) provides a
                                simple illustration. However, in practice, questions may begin with
                                the general and move to the specific, but after that the direction
                                of the group discussion may lead the questioning in unexpected
                                directions (see Figure 18.2 (b), in this
                                example, never getting back to the general).
Whatever direction it takes, the focus group plan should at least
                                plan for the funnel flow suggested. Table
                                    18.3 provides an illustration of the kinds of questions
                                posed by an organization investigating how large organizations are
                                making use of business coaching. Notice that some of the questions
                                follow Napolitano et al. (2002), who advise that concrete statements
                                should be followed by shorter questions.
Krueger and Casey (2009) offer two additional possible ending
                                questions. The first is: 'All things considered', an
                                attempt to determine the final position of each individual in the
                                group on areas of critical concern. The second is the summary
                                question. The moderator gives a short oral summary of the discussion
                                and participants are asked to comment on its completeness and
                                accuracy. For example, 'Today we have explored the issue of
                                wind farm power generation and the greening of technology. Most of
                                the group are in favour of wind farms but are sceptical about their
                                long term effectiveness. Would this be a fair summary of what has
                                been said?'
Figure 18.2
                                    Questioning framework from the general to the specificSource: Adapted from Stewart et
                                    al., 2007
Speaking in public, and especially on subjects where viewpoints are
                                polarised, may make some people particularly reticent to speak. The
                                moderator may notice people not completing sentences or looking as
                                though they want to speak without actually doing so. Here probing
                                questions can be vital. These can take a variety of forms. A simple
                                one is the use of positive gestures and noises
                                ('Uh-huh') just to keep a respondent talking so there
                                is depth to their response. Another kind of probe is when the
                                moderator repeats what the contributor has said: 'What I
                                understand from that is....', a technique which often
                                elicits a further piece of dialogue. The moderator can also probe by
                                asking for examples or personal stories from people's
                                experience.
As in the development of all data gathering instruments, the piloting
                                of focus group questions is vital. This could be through a mock
                                focus group, ideally with a group of people who are typical of the
                                intended participants. Krueger and Casey (2009), however, warn that
                                such a group might be difficult and time consuming to arrange.
                                Better would be to get together a few people who fit the proposed
                                focus group demographics. Test whether it is easy to ask the
                                questions without having to read them and ascertain whether
                                participants actually understand the questions. The moderator who is
                                going to be used in the focus groups should be the person who poses
                                the questions - testing how they pose the questions and also,
                                vitally, how they facilitate the discussion that follows.


Adapted from Halcomb, E.J., Gholizadeh,
                                    L., DiGiacomo, M., Phillips, J. and Davidson, P.M. (2007)
                                    'Literature review: considerations in undertaking focus
                                    group research with culturally and linguistically diverse
                                    groups', Journal of Clinical Nursing, 16(6):
                                    1000-11. Reprinted by kind permission of John Wiley and
                                    Sons




Conduct The Group
Observe participants as they enter the room and notice non-verbal
                                communication taking place, whether people are talking to each other
                                and the subject of conversations. Use this information, if relevant,
                                as a guide to who should sit next to each other. Avoid letting
                                friends sit next to one another since cliques can soon form. Once
                                the focus group has assembled, the role of the moderator becomes
                                central, this being to:
Introduce him or herself, including their credentials, that
                                        is, their justification for moderating the meeting.Explain the purpose of the focus group.Provide reassurances about confidentiality (within
                                        constraints).Ask permission for the use of a digital recorder (if
                                        required).Mention logistical issues such as the approximate length of
                                        the session, when breaks are going to be taken, and the
                                        location of facilities such as toilets and safety features
                                        such as fire exits.Make clear the ground rules of the session (recall Table 18.2).

Employability Skill 18.1

Establishing Rapport
Apart from the above activities, it is essential that the
                                        facilitator tries to establish rapport with the group as
                                        soon as possible.This might be achieved by greeting
                                        participants as they arrive or by providing some personal
                                        information about themselves (to 'connect'
                                        with the group).



Building Rapport





Top Tip 18.3
It is best if demographic information on participants (for
                                    example, their age, gender, job descriptions) is collected
                                    before the focus group starts rather than during the discussions
                                    (Clark, 2009); this is also the time to get ethical approval
                                    forms signed by participants.



The moderator poses the pre-planned questions and essentially
                                orchestrates the workings of the group. In doing this, moderators
                                must show an even hand, not favouring one group member over another.
                                    Table 18.4 offers a range of
                                possible behaviours that the moderator may have to respond to.
                                Members may have their own interests which may, or may not, coincide
                                with the interests of the researcher. The moderator needs to be
                                aware that he or she may have to impose a structure or agenda on the
                                group which may divert them from what the groups consider to be
                                significant.





Employability Skill 18.2

Keeping Calm Under Pressure
Facilitating a focus group may help to develop an important
                                        employability skill - keeping calm under pressure. As
                                        we can see from Table 18.4, such groups can often contain a variety
                                        of 'characters', some of whom, occasionally,
                                        can indulge in challenging behaviours.



Calm Under Pressure





Case Study 18.1

Getting A Focus Group To Focus
Kahan (2001) reports on a study where the process within the
                                        focus groups at first went badly wrong. The research
                                        concerned public attitudes towards the strengthening of
                                        river dykes in the Netherlands, particularly the views of
                                        environmental groups who protested on the grounds that these
                                        would harm the environment. The political debate became so
                                        heated that the minister concerned commissioned a study to
                                        determine whether the previously established security level
                                        (dyke height) was too conservative.



Staying on Topic


The questioning
                                        approach was to avoid beginning directly with the main
                                        policy issue and instead to start with a general topic and
                                        later move to specifics. So, researchers began by asking
                                        participants about how the river landscape fits with their
                                        image of the country, how important it was and in what ways
                                        they enjoyed the landscape. Unfortunately, in the first
                                        focus group, composed of political activists, researchers
                                        admit that the agenda was quickly taken over by these
                                        activists who launched into a set of prepared speeches.
                                        After an hour the researchers called for 'time
                                        out', explained the purpose of the research and, in
                                        effect, asked the group to begin again. Having vented their
                                        anger, the group readily agreed and the next 90 minutes went
                                        according to plan.


Source: Adapted from Kahan, 2001



Activity 18.1
Considering the above case study, were the researchers right to
                                    allow the session to continue for an hour before calling
                                    'time out'? What else could they have done?


Employability Skill 18.3

Listening To The Opinion Of Others
So far we have concentrated on how the researcher/facilitator
                                        poses questions to the group. However, an equally important
                                        skill is that of active listening. Do not fire too many
                                        questions. Allow participants time to think. Mentally
                                        process what they say carefully before posing a new
                                        question. Active listening not only shows respect for the
                                        views of those in the group, it helps to elicit
                                        responses.



Top Tip 18.4
Especially if you are new to conducting empirical research,
                                    seriously consider engaging the services of an experienced
                                    moderator. Firstly, this will enable you to concentrate on your
                                    role as a researcher: listening, observing and recording data.
                                    Secondly, if group dynamics take an unexpected turn (for
                                    example, if participants become upset or angry), the moderator
                                    will be able to take appropriate action, either to calm
                                    tensions, or in extreme circumstances to close the focus group
                                    early. If you are undertaking an academic dissertation, then
                                    consider teaming up with a fellow student who is also using a
                                    focus group and provide each other with support - they
                                    moderate your focus group and you moderate theirs.



Record Data
Capturing group discussions (and interactions between participants)
                                can be achieved in a number of ways, each of which has its
                                advantages and disadvantages. Here, we deal with three approaches,
                                namely memory, field notes and audio-recordings.


Memory
Memory is one of the least reliable forms of data recording since
                                    it is so fallible. However, especially if equipment fails to
                                    work (for example, digital recorders), it may be the only form
                                    of recording available. If there are at least two researchers
                                    working in the group, they should get together immediately after
                                    the focus group has finished to agree and write up some
                                    notes.


Field Notes
You will recall that we discussed the use of field notes in Chapters 7 and 15 in relation to
                                    observational research. For focus groups, however, there are
                                    some additional issues that need to be borne in mind
                                    particularly since we are concerned with collecting data from
                                    groups rather than individuals. Hence, given that there are
                                    multiple voices and interactions taking place, the research team
                                    must decide in advance what it is they want to capture. This
                                    could include:
Selected themes with a number of key quotes.Observation of group interactions including emotional
                                            responses.Turning points where views change.
Krueger and Casey (2009) offer three approaches to taking field
                                    notes.
Record notes and quotes. Here the researcher
                                            draws a vertical line down the page and creates two
                                            columns: notes and quotes. Key ideas are captured under
                                            notes, with as close to verbatim quotes as possible on
                                            the right hand page. As the moderator moves on to the
                                            next question, the researcher draws a horizontal line
                                            and begins a new section.Rich description. Here the attempt is to capture
                                            the conversation word for word as closely as possible.
                                            Spaces are used to separate contributions of each
                                            speaker.Speaker identification. With long transcripts it
                                            can become difficult to identify individual speakers.
                                            Here field notes are used to identify who is speaking,
                                            with the first few lines of what they say. These can
                                            later be matched to the transcript and the names of
                                            speakers added.
Whatever note-taking method is employed, Krueger and Casey (2009)
                                    recommend that notes should always include the following
                                    information:
The name of the study.The date/time/location of the focus group.The type and number of participants.The names and roles of researchers.A diagram of seating arrangements including a first name
                                            or code for each participant.


Audio Recordings
We discussed using digital recorders in Chapter 15. These, however, were for use in recording
                                    the views of individual respondents. Recording the discussion of
                                    group participants offers special challenges, not least of which
                                    is that sometimes people will be talking at the same time. It is
                                    vital, therefore, that the quality of the recording is at its
                                    best. Whatever type of digital device you intend to use, go to
                                    the focus group location and try it out before the focus group
                                    event. If the device is placed, say, in the middle of a table,
                                    will the voices of all contributors be heard? It helps here if
                                    you use an external microphone. It is also best to use the
                                    highest quality recorder and digital format such as Stereo High
                                    Quality (SHQ). Paying more for equipment and sound card will
                                    ultimately save on transcription costs.


Top Tip 18.5
To help transcribers, start the focus group by
                                            introducing yourself and then get all participants to do
                                            likewise. Transcribers can then put a name to each
                                            voice.






Approaches To Data Analysis
In one sense, the analysis of data emanating from focus group
                                discussions is no different to any other kind of data. However, a
                                number of qualifications have to be made. Focus group analysis tends
                                to start immediately after the first focus group has been completed
                                - data collection and analysis are concurrent (Krueger and
                                Casey, 2009). This also helps in the generation of questions since
                                it will become obvious sooner rather than later as to which
                                questions are generating illuminating responses and which are not.
                                This section rounds off this overview of organizing focus groups by
                                looking at some technical aspects of data analysis. The next section
                                deals with some philosophical issues.



Analyzing Verbal Data


The first of these technical issues is identifying the unit of
                                analysis. For focus groups, it is the group that is the unit of
                                analysis and not the individuals that comprise it - hence,
                                the aim of data analysis will be to capture the views expressed by
                                the group as a whole. This means not only an analysis of the
                                raw data but also of the interactions and group dynamics (Kitzinger,
                                1995). Given the open nature of questions posed to focus groups, and
                                the fact that group dynamics and interactions may become part of the
                                data set, analysing focus group data can be quite a challenge. One
                                way of handling group analysis, particularly when multiple focus
                                groups are used, is by using a grid (Miles and Huberman, 1994) where
                                groups are plotted on the vertical axis and question numbers on the
                                horizontal axis, as in Table
                                    18.5. To achieve this, each question needs to be asked in
                                each focus group (although as we noted earlier, sometimes a question
                                schedule will be modified progressively from one focus group to
                                another, as some questions are seen to work better than others).




Case Study 18.2

Getting A Blend Of Professionals Together
The aim of the research project described by Zimmerman,
                                        Restrepo, Culpen, Remington, Kling, Portelli and Foltin
                                        (2010) was to seek to understand the kinds of factual and
                                        other information that different professionals prefer and
                                        emphasize when faced with an emergency situation, and the
                                        communication skills required. The focus groups concerned
                                        two potential terrorism scenarios: a terrorist attack
                                        involving the hypothetical release of sarin (a synthetic
                                        chemical and nerve agent), and another attack involving the
                                        release of smallpox, both in confined physical spaces,
                                        namely, a train, train station and a bus depot. Two separate
                                        focus groups were held for each type of attack. Each focus
                                        group concentrated on three issues:
How participants respond to such events.How events are defined geographically.How variations arise in information used by
                                                participants from different professional
                                                groups.
By understanding how people react to a terrorist attack,
                                        researchers expected to gather insights into how
                                        professionals refine scenario design and their responses to
                                        the crisis.
Focus group participants consisted mainly of professionals
                                        from emergency planning and response teams and were selected
                                        through snowball sampling (recall Chapter 9). Hence, initial contact was made with
                                        individuals in government agencies, utilities and the health
                                        professions with experience in emergency response. They in
                                        turn suggested other professionals. Given the complexity of
                                        the topic, the researchers felt that a size of 6-8
                                        people was appropriate, that is, a small group. Participants
                                        were not known to each other. The duration of the groups was
                                        typically between 1.5 and 2.5 hours, with the setting in a
                                        conference room in the offices of a university. The room had
                                        plain white walls and participants were seated around a
                                        rectangular table. The ethical requirements of the
                                        university institution were adhered to. The sessions were
                                        manually transcribed rather than recorded.
The moderator directed the discussion according to a
                                        pre-planned agenda. Firstly the research director introduced
                                        the objectives and rationale of the study, including the
                                        nature of risk communication and some of the challenges. The
                                        characteristics of the effects of sarin and smallpox were
                                        outlined. Then the moderator presented a series of tables
                                        which describe the desired behaviour of the general public
                                        associated with an attack, and details of actual behaviour.
                                        The framework provided the basis for group discussion.
                                        Questions posed included: What information is needed to
                                        influence behaviour? How should the message be worded? Who
                                        should deliver the message?
In terms of results, participants recommended merging some of
                                        the time periods presented in the framework to avoid
                                        repeating the same information for different time periods.
                                        Secondly, the nature of the space (confined or otherwise)
                                        was critical in shaping the message given to the public.
                                        Thirdly, the professionals spoke different languages and
                                        emphasized different information needed in responding to the
                                        crisis.


Source: Zimmerman et al., 2010



Activity 18.2
Explain why the use of focus groups might be particularly
                                    relevant to discussions of risk communication. Can you think of
                                    other scenarios where groups of professionals might come
                                    together through focus groups to discuss issues relevant to
                                    researchers?




Focus Groups And Research Design
As we saw in Chapter 6, research design
                            comprises an overarching plan for the collection, measurement and
                            analysis of data. A research design, then, could comprise the use of
                            only one focus group. However,
                            as we saw in Chapter 17, one of the purposes of
                            qualitative research is to achieve a degree of data
                            'saturation', a point where the last focus group does not
                            provide or promise new knowledge (Flick, 2009). Data saturation lends
                            credibility to the research, hence it is usual to use at least three or
                            four focus groups as part of a research design (which may, of course,
                            also include other data gathering methods as part of a mixed methods
                            design). Krueger and Casey (2009) distinguish between a number of
                            alternative designs, depending on the purpose of the research.

Programme Or Product Development Design
Krueger and Casey (2009) pinpoint three phases in a programme or
                                product design when focus groups can be useful. The first is when
                                researchers seek to understand more about the product or programme.
                                If this was, say, a training programme, then this would often be
                                called the needs assessment stage (see Figure
                                    18.3). One or more focus groups helps the researcher to
                                understand the needs of consumers or employees which helps in the
                                development of a series of prototypes (samples or models, built to
                                test a product or programme), which are themselves pilot tested
                                (evaluated) by focus groups. The prototype most favoured by the
                                focus groups is then developed into the 'final' stage
                                model which again is evaluated by focus groups.



Focus Groups in Product Design


If, say, the authority responsible for promoting waste recycling
                                among domestic households wanted to implement a popular and
                                successful scheme, it might first start by organizing a series of
                                focus groups aimed at understanding customer interests, motivation
                                (to recycle or not) and concerns. Developing an understanding of
                                customer interests helps in the design of various approaches which
                                include the provision of different prototype designs for
                                'wheelie' bins for unwanted newspapers and food, each
                                of which are tested in a selected district for three months. The
                                most practical designs are subsequently 'rolled out'
                                (implemented) throughout the town, but the authority still evaluates
                                the results through more focus groups to ensure popular 'buy
                                in' to the scheme and to see if it can be improved -
                                see next section.
Figure 18.3
                                    Research design for product or programme development



Programme Or Product Evaluation Design
The above example shows how focus groups can be used iteratively in
                                the development process. In this section we look at how they can be
                                used to evaluate final products or programmes. Krueger and Casey
                                (2009) offer a range of designs including a Single-category design,
                                Multiple-category design, Double-layer design and Broad spectrum
                                design. We will take the example of waste recycling in the above
                                section and apply it to each of these designs.

Single-Category Design
The wheelie bins are used across the town, but the local
                                    authority knows from evaluation reports that some districts seem
                                    to be using the bins more than others, and there are also
                                    variations even on individual roads. The authority, then, wants
                                    to evaluate how residents are using the bins, and how less
                                    committed residents can be brought into the scheme. Using a
                                    Single-category design (residents as the category),
                                    information-rich residents are recruited to, say, four focus
                                    groups. After the groups have been held and the data analysed,
                                    if data saturation is reached, the focus groups stop; if new
                                    information is being obtained from the fourth group, another
                                    group is held, and so on until there is saturation (see Figure 18.4).
Figure
                                            18.4 Single-category designSource: Adapted from Krueger
                                        and Casey, 2009


Multiple-Category Design
The local authority might have a suspicion that certain variables
                                    are at play and that these influence residents in their decision
                                    on whether to recycle or not. One variable might be age, hence,
                                    focus groups are organized for three age groups: 18-39;
                                    40-64; 65+. In addition, it is believed also
                                    important to gain the views of recycling bin collectors since
                                    they have the opportunity to witness residents' behaviour
                                    and may have some interesting views. However, since this is a
                                    small group, only one focus group will be necessary (see Figure 18.5).
Figure
                                            18.5 Multiple-category designSource: Adapted from Krueger
                                        and Casey, 2009



Double-Layer Design
If the local authority believes that not only age but social
                                    class has an influence on recycling behaviour, then it will
                                    adopt a double-layer design, using the same age categories, but
                                    this time across, say, three layers (districts), each district
                                    chosen because of its known socio-demographic features. Figure 18.6 illustrates the
                                    resulting design.
Figure
                                            18.6 Double-layer designSource: Adapted from Krueger
                                        and Casey, 2009


Broad Spectrum Design
The domestic waste recycling example is typical of the type of
                                    issue that can involve a wide spectrum of public opinion and
                                    interests. In these cases, the public authority may seek to
                                    canvass the views of those groups who have a keen interest in
                                    the subject, before then ensuring that less key, but by no means
                                    unimportant, groups are also taken into account. The key groups
                                    may sometimes be over sampled as they will provide a benchmark
                                    against which the other groups can be measured (Krueger and
                                    Casey, 2009). In our recycling example, it might be the
                                    'refusenik' groups that provide the baseline,
                                    since it is achieving changes in their behaviour that the scheme
                                    must achieve. Other groups that must also be sampled could
                                    include the managers of the recycling plants, scheme
                                    administrators, ecologists and scientists with expertise in
                                    recycling theory. Figure 18.7 provides an
                                    illustration.
Figure
                                            18.7 Broad spectrum design





Special Issues In Focus Group Research
While one of the benefits of using focus groups is their versatility,
                            working with some types of audience or certain kinds of themes throws up
                            particular challenges. In this section we will look at using focus
                            groups with children and with international, culturally diverse
                            audiences, before exploring how focus groups can be used to explore
                            difficult and embarrassing issues.
Even before the questions are posed, it is essential to relax the group,
                            perhaps by engaging in conversational topics such as sport, music, or
                            favourite television programmes. The moderator should also model the
                            kinds of behaviours that demonstrate the sharing of ideas. Thus it often
                            helps with a youth audience if the moderator is also from this age
                            group, provided they have been given sufficient and detailed
                            instructions on how to conduct the group. Working with young people,
                            moderators may find themselves having to overcome scepticism about the
                            process, since young people may be suspicious about the motives of the
                            research and the credence taken of their views. Hence, trust has to be
                            built.

Focus Groups And International Audiences
When moderating a focus group overseas, it is better to conduct the
                                group in the local language even if English is a commonly used
                                second language in the country. This ensures that all participants
                                both understand the questions and can respond fluently. Focus group
                                organizers also need to be sensitive to aspects of power and status.
                                In some cultures, where respect for authority and age is paramount,
                                younger people and those who perceive themselves as lower in status
                                may hesitate to contribute.



Digital Focus Groups: Increasing
                                        Internationality




Discussing Sensitive Issues
It is important here for the moderator to set the right tone from the
                                start. Since participants may be embarrassed, the moderator can
                                lighten the atmosphere by divulging a knowledge or interest in the
                                subject. For example: 'The first time I got fired from my job
                                ....' As Stewart et al. (2007) advise, a useful way of
                                deflecting sensitivity is to get participants to comment on the
                                views or experiences of friends or colleagues rather than
                                themselves. This, however, may not always be practical since
                                participants might be required here to have more intimate knowledge
                                of others than they actually possess.




Epistemological Considerations And Focus Groups
According to Sayre (2001), three epistemological perspectives are
                            relevant to the qualitative analysis of focus group data.
Firstly, social constructivism claims that reality and the
                                    meanings people accord to it are socially constructed. Focus
                                    group researchers that hold this approach tend to emphasize how
                                    group members collaborate and reach a consensus on how shared
                                    meanings about events, products or themes are constructed.In contrast, qualitative researchers from a constructionist
                                    persuasion reject the notion that there is a single reality.
                                    Instead, knowledge is seen as provisional and context dependent.
                                    Hence, strategies are adopted that favour reflexivity and the
                                    articulation of the researcher's perspectives as a
                                    legitimate element of the analysis. Constructs such as
                                    robustness, credibility, dependability and transferability are
                                    seen as key (Lincoln and Guba, 1994).Then there is interpretivism, which notes the views expressed by
                                    participants but refuses to take them at face value, preferring
                                    to compare words with other data such as non-verbal
                                    communication (facial expressions, tone of voice, etc.). Those
                                    who adhere to an interpretivist stance are more likely to use
                                    rapporteurs to make observations and produce notes of these.
                                    This approach seeks consumer stories as powerful tools for
                                    understanding how consumers construct meaning and make
                                    decisions. Hence, textual data are read, analysed for
                                    interpretation and re-read and re-analysed.
To the three epistemological positions outlined above, Freeman (2006)
                            discusses a fourth - a 'realist' approach.
                            Qualitative researchers who favour 'realism', seek to
                            represent reality (Hammersley, 1992) and analyse data to discover
                            pre-existent categories and consistency of meaning. There may be a
                            concern for producing convincing evidence of validity and reliability,
                            so that the findings can be considered 'true'.
Exploring the impact of epistemological positions on focus groups,
                            Freeman (2006) takes the work of Krueger (1994) to highlight a realist
                            position, and Kitzinger (1995) takes a constructionist stance to
                            illustrate four areas of interest, namely, group membership and
                            sampling, homogeneity and heterogeneity in group composition,
                            interaction within groups and generalizability of results (for a summary
                            see Table 18.6).

Realist And Constructionist Approaches To Focus
                                Groups
Let us look at each of these elements in turn.

Group Membership And Sampling
From his realist perspective, Krueger (1994) is critical of the
                                    use of convenience samples and pre-existing groups, warning of
                                    the dangers of using groups where people know or work with each
                                    other. One reason is that these groups will have their own
                                    pre-existing dynamics, and can be influenced by formal and
                                    informal hierarchies. But a more important problem posed by
                                    convenience sampling is the threat to external validity (see
                                    'Generalizability of results', below). From her
                                    constructionist perspective, however, Kitzinger (1995) champions
                                    the use of pre-existing groups (for example, people who work
                                    together), arguing that there is no single reality waiting to be
                                    revealed. Using pre-existing groups allows for observation of
                                    fragments of interactions between participants that approximate
                                    to naturally occurring interactions yielding data that might
                                    have been gathered through participant observation.



Source: Adapted from
                                        Freeman, 2006



Homogeneity And Heterogeneity In Group
                                    Composition
Krueger (1994) warns against heterogeneity in group composition
                                    as this acts as a threat to external validity. He advises that
                                    participants should be segmented into relevant sub-groups using
                                    a series of focus groups for each sub-group. So, if the study is
                                    concerned with aircraft safety then there should be separate
                                    sub-groups for aviation authority experts, pilots, and cabin
                                    crew. This helps in the analysis of differences between
                                    sub-groups, and increases the external validity of comparisons
                                    made between sub-groups, since knowledge of such differences has
                                    currency beyond the study to a broader population. However,
                                    there is a concern that homogeneity may inhibit discussion,
                                    especially when there are power or status differences between
                                    group participants. In the above example, for instance, would
                                    cabin crew speak so freely when there are pilots or aviation
                                    authority experts in the group? In contrast, for Kitzinger
                                    (1995) issues of external validity are of less concern since she
                                    is interested in situated discourses rather than shared
                                    perceptions of population samples (Freeman, 2006). While she
                                    acknowledges that status differences may inhibit some
                                    participants, this does not mean that people's
                                    'real' thoughts will not emerge.


Interaction
For Krueger (1994) interaction is a functional device for
                                    ensuring that data are gathered. But for Kitzinger (1995)
                                    interaction is a central analytical resource and intrinsically
                                    valuable in itself. It is one of the defining features of focus
                                    groups as a research method. When group dynamics work well,
                                    co-participants [sic] act as co-researchers, taking the
                                    discussion in unexpected directions (Kitzinger, 1994).
                                    Interactions in group work also allow for the generation of
                                    theory rather than the mere testing of it.



Generalizability Of Results
According to Krueger (1994), with an adequate number of
                                    homogeneous focus groups with randomly selected participants,
                                    results may be generalizable to populations from which the
                                    groups were drawn. As would be expected, Kitzinger (1995) is
                                    more cautious about making claims for external validity, arguing
                                    for transferability based upon the theoretical saturation of
                                    data segments. At this point, it is up to the reader to make a
                                    judgement as to the credibility of these claims (Freeman, 2006).
                                    Hence, results are more likely to yield conceptual insights and
                                    illumination rather than generalizability (Kitzinger, 1995).
                                    Stewart et al. (2007) also consider focus group results to be
                                    idiosyncratic and therefore difficult to generalize. However,
                                    this does not mean they lack value - indeed, they possess
                                    the kind of ecological validity not found in other kinds of
                                    research, such as traditional surveys. Case Study 18.3 provides
                                    an illustration of how focus groups can sometimes provide more
                                    accurate and valid results than a large-scale survey.

Case Study 18.3

Focus Groups And The Influence Of Social
                                            Interactions
In April 1985, the management of Coca-Cola Co. announced
                                            that it was going to change the flavour of its flagship
                                            brand, a decision that proved to be one of the greatest
                                            brand disasters of modern times. Coke's market
                                            rival, Pepsi, had discovered in taste tests that the
                                            majority of consumers preferred the taste of Pepsi to
                                            that of Coke. Indeed, a majority of loyal Coke drinkers
                                            also reported preferring Pepsi. Coke's management
                                            responded by researching the possibility of changing the
                                            Coke recipe to respond to the apparent changes that had
                                            occurred in consumer tastes. In blind taste tests, the
                                            new Coke beat Pepsi by as much as six or eight
                                            percentage points.
Coke's market research on the reformulation was
                                            one of the most exhaustive market research projects in
                                            history, costing $4 million and including survey
                                            interviews with nearly 200,000 consumers. On 23 April
                                            1985, Coke announced the reformulation with a grand
                                            flourish. At first all went well. During the first few
                                            weeks after the new Coke launch the company's
                                            weekly survey of 900 respondents showed consumers
                                            preferring new Coke over old Coke by a margin of 53 per
                                            cent to 47 per cent. However, in a number of US cities,
                                            old Coke loyalists sponsored protest rallies and
                                            boycotts and received widespread media attention. A
                                            trickle of angry letters became a stream. By July only
                                            30 per cent of consumers interviewed reported preferring
                                            the new Coke. Yielding to public pressure, the company
                                            re-introduced the old Coke as a 'flanker
                                            brand' to be sold alongside the new Coke.
                                            However, soon the old Coke was outselling the new 8 to
                                            1.
So why did Coke's extensive market research fail?
                                            Schindler (1992) explains that Coke's large-scale
                                            quantitative survey and its focus groups came to
                                            different answers. Some of the focus groups were shown a
                                            storyboard depicting a proposed commercial. One said
                                            Brand X, a soft drink, was going to be improved. The
                                            focus group was happy with this. But when it came to
                                            changing Coke for the better, the resounding response
                                            was NO. The researchers, however, trusted the survey,
                                            which comprised a large number of interviews spread over
                                            a wide, and presumably representative, area. But what
                                            had happened was that the majority of the population had
                                            the opportunity to be stimulated by media reports and
                                            other social interactions with angry Coke loyalists and
                                            most changed their minds. This is what was predicted by
                                            the focus groups. Given the 10-12 per cent figure
                                            from the quantitative survey for Coke loyalists, a
                                            typical eight- to 12-member focus group is likely to
                                            have at least one angry loyalist as a member. The focus group
                                            results showed that, in this situation, exposure to the
                                            views of angry Coke loyalists is likely to sway the
                                            others in the group to their position.
According to Schindler (1992), the real lesson from the
                                            new Coke case is that the focus group technique is more
                                            than just a means of getting a quick and detailed look
                                            at consumer opinion. It is a unique source of
                                            information about how the consumer will respond in a
                                            situation where there will be an awareness of the
                                                views of other consumers [my emphasis]. The
                                            distinctive strength of focus groups is less important
                                            when individuals can accurately anticipate the views of
                                            influential others and are actively conscious of these
                                            views when they are being interviewed. For example,
                                            factory workers are likely to be highly and accurately
                                            aware of how their fellow workers might respond to the
                                            imposition of an across-the-board pay freeze. In such
                                            eases, individual and group methods will yield the same
                                            results and the distinctive strength of focus groups is
                                            less important. Nevertheless, focus groups can reveal
                                            important insights about social interaction effects that
                                            other qualitative methods are likely to miss.


Source: Adapted from Schindler, 1992



Activity 18.3
Think about a business subject about which focus group
                                        participants are unlikely to know the views of others in the
                                        group.




Phenomenology And Focus Groups
We saw in Chapter 2 and in the
                                realist/constructionist example above, that a researcher's
                                epistemological stance can have a profound influence on their choice
                                and application of research method. Bradbury-Jones, Sambrook and
                                Irvine (2009) discuss this in relation to phenomenology and the use
                                of focus groups. The primary objective of phenomenology is to
                                investigate and describe phenomena as consciously experienced,
                                people's 'natural attitude', prior to critical
                                or theoretical reflection (Husserl, 1983: 51). The underlying belief
                                is that it is best to research phenomena through the eyes of the
                                person(s) having the experience. Another important feature of
                                descriptive phenomenology is that of phenomenological reduction,
                                achieved through the performance of 'bracketing', that
                                is, withholding the impulse to make judgements or assumptions about
                                the world, and looking at phenomena in their essence. However,
                                according to Heidegger, the attempt by Husserl to guarantee a truth
                                undistorted by human interpretation is misdirected (Polkinghorne,
                                1983). To be human is to be interpretive, with the interpreter
                                always bringing their own experiences and frames of reference to
                                their understanding of the phenomena. Hence, understanding is based
                                upon interpretation of phenomena not on a description of them
                                (Bradbury-Jones et al., 2009).
Where does this leave the role of focus groups? Webb and Kevern
                                (2001) argue that focus groups and phenomenology are incompatible.
                                Since the goal of phenomenological research is to get individuals to
                                describe their experiences in as uncontaminated a way as possible,
                                the use of research methods that involve groups is inappropriate
                                since individuals will be influenced by the views of others.
                                However, Bradbury-Jones et al. (2009: 666) distinguish between
                                Husserl's descriptive and Heidegger's interpretive
                                (hermeneutic) phenomenology, arguing that, since Husserlian
                                phenomenology aims to adopt a detached position, using any kind of
                                    group approach to data
                                collection may be 'skating on thin ice'. However,
                                since Heideggerian phenomenology is not concerned with the
                                uncontamination of participant accounts, the use of focus groups
                                should not be discounted. Indeed, interpretive phenomenology, as its
                                name implied, is concerned with interpretation. For Bradbury-Jones
                                et al. (2009) the researcher does not arrive at an objective
                                description of the phenomenon being studied. Instead, during data
                                gathering, the researcher shapes the interview, but in turn is
                                shaped by it. Hence, in focus groups, the researcher is engaged in a
                                process of 'reciprocal interpretation with
                                participants' (Bradbury-Jones et al., 2009: 667). Focus
                                groups may also be relevant to phenomenological research in that the
                                approach may help researchers to bracket their assumptions when they
                                are challenged by group members. The researcher, then, is able to
                                arrive at a clearer, and richer understanding of the phenomenon
                                under study (Bradbury-Jones et al., 2009).



Ethical Considerations And Focus Groups
Ethics were discussed in detail in Chapter 4.
                            However, there are some specific issues that concern the ethical conduct
                            of focus groups that will be outlined here. The first is that ethical
                            principles, while of course a challenge within all approaches to
                            research, pose particular problems for focus groups. An obvious one is
                            that confidentiality is difficult to keep since statements made by
                            participants will be heard in a public forum. Confidentiality therefore
                            can be promised only within certain constraints. The potential for
                            breaches of confidentiality, then, needs to be highlighted on ethical
                            consent forms (Smith, 1995). Krueger and Casey (2009) recommend that
                            these forms are presented when participants first arrive and before the
                            focus group begins, when a member of the research team can explain the
                            protocol orally and answer questions in a confidential manner. This can
                            be especially helpful when participants have literacy problems.
                            Confidentiality can also be assisted if participants refer to themselves
                            and others only by first name.



Focus Group Checklist


Using groups or teams of participants from the same organization or
                            sector may have far-reaching consequences once the focus group is over.
                            Barbour (1999) suggests that this is factored in during sample selection
                            to identify and avoid combinations of groups where conflict is likely to
                            occur. During the focus group, some participants might voice opinions
                            that are upsetting to others. One of the roles of the rapporteur, apart
                            from taking notes, is to monitor the comfort level of participants
                            (Halcomb et al., 2007) to ensure they are not becoming too stressed.
                            Sometimes upset may result from statements containing misinformation.
                            The role of the moderator is to provide accurate information -
                            possibly through debriefing or the distribution of information leaflets
                            at the end of the session (Kitzinger and Barbour, 1999). In the final
                            analysis, adhere to one of the basic ethical principles in research
                            - do no harm!

Top Tip 18.6
Given that focus groups can generate discussion but also arguments,
                                it is important that you have ethics approval for running such
                                groups. If you are on an academic programme, it would be prudent to
                                get advice on this from your supervisor or tutor as well as looking
                                at the ethics guidelines of your institution.




Summary
Focus groups are ideal ways of exploring people's beliefs
                                    and perceptions about products, services and concepts and are
                                    used in a wide variety of contexts including marketing, human
                                    resources management, social policy, and health and education
                                    management.Focus groups are not group interviews. Rather they aim to
                                    achieve a cascade effect where the utterances of one participant
                                    triggers ideas in others.Focus groups have many strengths, but may pose challenges where
                                    confidentiality is key and where success is dependent on the
                                    skills of the moderator.Typically focus groups will comprise between six and eight
                                    participants and will last between one and two hours.The choice of homogeneous or heterogeneous samples, and the
                                    claims made for the results, will be influenced by the
                                    epistemological stance of the researcher.Researchers will often use three or four focus groups or more
                                    until data 'saturation' is achieved.Questions must be carefully designed and piloted with the number
                                    of questions dependent on the complexity of the topic and the
                                    experience of the moderator. Funnelling is often used, with
                                    general questions being posed before specific ones.Ground rules for the conduct of the focus group must be
                                    explained and adhered to, particularly timings and respect for
                                    others in the group.

Review Questions
To what extent do the benefits of focus groups outweigh the
                                        disadvantages?Why is the role of the moderator so vital to the success of
                                        focus groups?Why is the beginning of the focus group so critical to its
                                        success? What makes for an effective start?Explain how the funnel approach is used to design the flow
                                        of questions.What is a probe? Give some examples of probing phrases or
                                        approaches.Explain how the epistemological stance of a researcher can
                                        affect areas such as sample selection in focus groups and
                                        claims for external validity.



Further Reading
Krueger, R.A. and Casey, A. (2009) Focus Groups: A Practical Guide for
                                Applied Research, 4th edn. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage. Provides a
                            useful guide for planning a focus group, the kinds of questions to ask
                            and how to moderate a group. Although written from a sociological
                            perspective, the advice can be applied to any kind of research
                            topic.
Liamputtong, P. (2011) Focus Group Methodology: Principles and
                                Practice. London: Sage. Covers, in commendable detail, essential
                            topics such as focus group methodology, and the practicalities of
                            running a successful focus group. In addition, there is a useful chapter
                            on using focus groups on sensitive topics and with vulnerable groups.
                            Each chapter concludes with a series of tutorial questions for
                            discussion and an extensive list of sources for further reading.
Morgan, D.L. (1997) Focus
                                Groups as Qualitative Research, 2nd edn. Thousand Oaks, CA:
                            Sage. At less than 100 pages, this book is short and accessible. It
                            provides an overview of social science approaches to using focus groups,
                            and contains a useful section that compares the use of focus groups with
                            individual interviews.


Journal Resources
Rodriguez, K.L., Schwartz, J.L., Lahman, M.K.E. and Geist, M.R. (2011)
                            'Culturally responsive focus groups: Reframing the research
                            experience to focus on participants', International Journal of
                                Qualitative Methods, 10(4): 400-417. Illuminates the
                            advantages of using culturally responsive focus groups (CRFGs) in data
                            collection.
Stokes, D. and Bergin, R. (2006) 'Methodology or
                            "methodolatry"? An evaluation of focus groups and depth
                            interviews', Qualitative Market Research: An International
                                Journal, 9(1): 26-37. A study that suggests that group
                            processes may have an influence on the consensus view expressed in focus
                            groups, which may not be representative of respondents'
                            individual views.
Underhill, C. and Olmsted, M. (2003) 'An experimental comparison
                            of computer-mediated and face-to-face focus groups', Social
                                Science Computer Review, 21(4): 505-512. Discusses the
                            results of a study that shows that the quality of the information
                            obtained from computer-based focus groups is not significantly different
                            from information obtained from face-to-face groups.

Don't forget to visit the companion website at https://study.sagepub.com/grayresearchbusiness for the
                                following resources which support this chapter:

















19 Unobtrusive Measures

Chapter Introduction

Chapter Outline
Identifying physical measuresDocumentsNew unobtrusive measures: digital archivesEthical issues in using digital technology


Keywords
Unobtrusive measuresAccretionOrganizational documentsDigital archivesEthics



Icon Key







Author Video







Chapter Objectives
After reading this chapter you will be able to:
Distinguish between unobtrusive measures and other research
                                        approaches.Describe the advantages of unobtrusive measures over more
                                        interactive methods.Select between different unobtrusive measures for conducting
                                        research.Demonstrate how to access data archives on the
                                        Internet.



So far, we have concentrated on interactive research methods such as
                            surveys, case studies, interviews and observations. Unobtrusive
                            measures, however, involve the use of non-reactive sources, independent
                            of the presence of the researcher, and include documentary evidence,
                            physical evidence and archival analysis. The term archive derives from
                            the ancient Greek aekheion, which means a house that is the
                            residence of the superior magistrates, the archons, those that command.
                            This house was where official documents were stored and where the
                            archons acted as both guardians and interpreters of the documents. Here,
                            the principle was created that archives require that documents are
                            stored in one place (Featherstone, 2000).
These archives exist in a wide variety of formats and can consist of
                            files, maps, drawings, films, sound recordings and photographs. While
                            libraries tend to provide access to published materials, archives hold
                            unique unpublished records. But, as Sleeman (2002) points out, with the
                            growth of electronic environments such as the Internet, what is
                            'unique' and 'published' or
                            'unpublished' is increasingly blurred. Web pages, for
                            example, can contain links to many other sites or pages, challenging the
                            notion of a document as an integral and independent record.
As we have seen, interactive measures carry with them various inherent
                            problems, such as the dangers of interviewer bias, the possibility of
                            research tools of questionable validity and reliability, or reactivity
                            between the interviewer and interviewee. Unobtrusive measures, because
                            they are dealing with 'dead' data, in principle, are
                            unlikely to face the risk of reactive measurement effects.



Unobtrusive Measures


But, as we shall see, unobtrusive measures pose other risks if used on
                            their own. Some materials, for example, tend to survive better than
                            others, so their representativeness is open to question. To ensure
                            reliability, it is often prudent to use unobtrusive measures in
                            conjunction with other approaches.
In this chapter we will look at various kinds of unobtrusive measures and
                            how they can be of value to the researcher. We will then examine a
                            number of typical sources of unobtrusive measures.


Identifying Physical Measures
From the prehistoric cave paintings of early man to the Great Wall of
                            China, mediaeval cathedrals or the discarded fast food containers of
                            modern times, human beings have left behind physical evidence of their
                            existence. According to Webb et al. (2000), these physical or
                                trace measures can be divided into four broad categories:
                            natural and controlled accretion measures, and natural and
                            controlled erosion measures.


Natural Accretion Measures
Accretion takes place where there is a build up of deposits of
                                materials or evidence. Within the context of ancient worlds, for
                                example, this could include the accumulation of shards of pottery.
                                In a more modern context, it could include the build up of piles of
                                litter, or, say, the amount of dust gathering on some files or
                                equipment, showing how little they are being used. An often-quoted
                                example is that of graffiti appearing on the surfaces of (usually)
                                urban features such as walls or buildings. Lee (2000) provides
                                examples of research where graffiti have been used to analyse
                                relationships and attitudes between different ethnic gangs, and how
                                the graffiti delineated certain 'zones of tension'
                                between groups.
But accretion measures could also include more innocent examples,
                                such as the number of plastic cups accumulating in waste bins around
                                an office. We are not interested, however, in these materials for
                                themselves, but for what they might reveal about aspects of human
                                behaviour. In the case of the plastic cups, we could use them to
                                come to a tentative estimate of the number of breaks taken by office
                                workers, as the following case study shows.

Case Study 19.1

Natural Accretion Measures - Cold
                                        Coffee!
After trade union pressure, an office manager agrees to
                                        install a vending machine for hot and cold drinks. After
                                        only a month, through casual observation, he becomes
                                        concerned that the vending machine is encouraging a
                                        'take a break' mentality, and that too many
                                        staff are losing focus on their work. He decides to carry
                                        out a short study to see if his hypothesis is correct.
He first of all notes where people consume their drinks, and
                                        finds that there are two areas: at the vending machine
                                        itself, which has now become a sort of social area, and at
                                        people's personal desks. Using unobtrusive measures,
                                        once staff have left work at the end of the day, he goes
                                        around the office, collecting used plastic cups from the
                                        waste bins. He finds over 50 cups in the bin next to the
                                        vending machine, but a total of over 200 in individual staff
                                        bins.
The next day, he covertly observes six members of staff
                                        consuming their drinks to make an average estimate of the
                                        time they spend on each break. In doing this, however, he
                                        finds that it is only those people who congregate around the
                                        vending machine who actually stop to talk. Those who take
                                        their drinks back to their desks continue immediately with
                                        work, taking a drink when they can. Indeed, he now recalls
                                        that when he delved into individual waste bins the previous
                                        evening, many contained grey-brown slops in the bottom. This
                                        is another unobtrusive measure - the fact that many
                                        staff had been so busy, their tea or coffee had gone cold
                                        and had to be poured into the bin! Since these people are
                                        clearly working rather than taking a break, the manager
                                        concludes that the vending machine is probably increasing
                                        productivity, not reducing it.



Activity 19.1
Take another look at Case Study 19.1.
What evidence is there that the manager used a triangulation of
                                    methods?
How accurate would the study have been if the manager had only
                                    used unobtrusive measures? Would the data have been reliable if
                                    he had conducted the research using, say, an interview
                                    schedule?
Suggested answers are provided at the end of the chapter.




Controlled Accretion Measures
This is where the researcher tampers with the materials that are
                                connected to the accretion comparison. Webb et al. (2000) give the
                                example of researchers who tested advertising exposure using the
                                'glue-seal method'. Here, a small glue spot was
                                inconspicuously placed between the pages of a magazine close to the
                                binding. After the magazine had been read, the researchers could
                                detect, by noting whether the seals had been broken, which pages had
                                been opened fully and looked at and which had not. This method was
                                developed because of the tendency in questionnaire surveys for
                                respondents to falsely claim they had read or viewed an
                                advertisement. But as Webb et al. note, this controlled accretion
                                measure is rather limited in its effectiveness. It does not, for
                                example, allow researchers to determine precisely which
                                advertisement was seen, only which pair of pages. It also yields no
                                data on how long an advertisement was looked at, or indeed, if it
                                was actually viewed at all.



Website Analytics in Research


A more modern example of controlled accretion is the use of the Web.
                                Many organizations make use of a Web counter to keep a tally of how
                                many 'hits' they are receiving on their website.
                                Sophisticated software is also now available to provide data on how
                                long a person stayed on the site, which pages they viewed, and
                                whether the hit came from inside or outside the organization. Where
                                a company has a website that contains information that people may
                                genuinely want (reports, articles, economic or business data, etc.),
                                then it can grant access to the site only through visitors having to
                                complete an online pro forma about themselves. The company can now
                                develop a detailed profile of its potential customers that it then
                                targets with its marketing materials.


Natural Erosion Measures
Here, there is a degree of selective wear or deterioration on the
                                material being studied. For example, examining the wear and tear on
                                office carpet tiles may reveal the density of human
                                'traffic' in a particular section of a library.
                                Similar deterioration in a department store might reveal the
                                location of the most popular goods. Observation (see Chapters 16 and 17) might also be used to
                                confirm these findings.
If, for example, you wanted to discover the most popular resources
                                used by learners in an organization's Open Learning Centre, a
                                sensible approach would be to check the records of how often a book,
                                video or CD Rom had been borrowed. But this is only an indirect
                                measure, since it tells us nothing about the extent to which the
                                resource has actually been used. Here, unobtrusive natural erosion
                                measures could be used, checking the wear and tear on the learning
                                materials. So, we could compare how many times page corners had been
                                turned down on different study guides and handbooks. Playing some of
                                the Centre's training videos might soon reveal which ones
                                seem rather worn out. One problem, of course, is that with the move
                                towards digital technology, such signs of wear and tear will be
                                virtually impossible to detect.


Controlled Erosion Measures
In this case, it is possible to use or manipulate the extent to which
                                something wears out against some other experimental variable. Say,
                                for example, a company hired people to distribute its leaflets
                                door-to-door around neighbourhoods. How does it know that the
                                leaflets are being delivered? Using controlled erosion measures it
                                could estimate the rate at which the distributors' shoes wore
                                out, by taking a measurement of sole depth before they started the
                                job and, say, after 3 months. Of course, there are many potential
                                intervening variables here, not least of which is the extent to which staff used their shoes
                                during their leisure time. The answer here would be to issue
                                'company' shoes so that this could be controlled
                                for.



Documents
Documents are some of the most frequently used unobtrusive measures and
                            include a wide variety of personal, organizational and institutional
                            documents, and state financial, political and legal records. We can
                            distinguish between two types of documents: running records and
                                episodic records. Running records include organizational
                            documents, actuarial records and political and judicial records. In
                            contrast to running records that tend to be in the public domain,
                            episodic records such as personal diaries are discontinuous and tend to
                            be private. Hence, they are often more difficult to access. Webb et al.
                            (2000) suggest three main classes: sales records, industrial and
                            institutional records, and personal documents. To these we can add:
                            visual and mass media records, and institutional investigations. Many
                            types of documents are examples of what are termed 'secondary
                            sources', which are discussed in more detail in Chapter 21, Secondary analysis.



Top Tip: Unobtrusive Measures





Document Analysis Research




New Unobtrusive Measures: Digital Archives
So far, we have looked at quite traditional forms of unobtrusive
                            measures, many of which include the collection of documents (of various
                            descriptions), usually located in one place. But because of problems of
                            access, many document archives are under-utilized by researchers. After
                            all, if the archive that you need is hundreds or even thousands of
                            kilometres away, you are going to have to do some serious personal
                            planning to see it. The growth of the Internet and the World Wide Web,
                            however, is changing this. It is also worth considering another new and
                            digital source of information, closed circuit television, as yet another
                            modern source of unobtrusive information.



Unobtrusive Data from Company Websites



The Internet
The Internet and World Wide Web are already making an impact on how
                                archives are accessed.

In the long term it may well be that the greatest contribution
                                    which the Internet makes to research is to provide easier access
                                    to archives. (Sleeman, in Dochartaigh, 2002: 220)

Archives were once one of the most inaccessible research resources,
                                and just discovering which resources were held in which archive
                                could be a major research activity in itself. Today, however, the
                                Internet allows archivists to put information about their
                                collections into the public arena. The next stage, which is
                                happening with many archives already, is then to put the collection
                                itself onto the Web. With the provision of a search facility, it
                                becomes possible to search for archival information from your work
                                desk. On the Web 19.1 provides some useful examples.
One factor that distinguishes archives from published sources, is
                                that collections are presented so that the context and original
                                order of the materials is maintained. This is an attempt to preserve
                                the authenticity of the archive and its value to researchers. One of
                                the dangers of the Web is that it can allow the user multiple access
                                to documents at different levels. Archivists are conscious of this
                                danger, hence, they often show the researcher how a holding was
                                created. The use of Web links also allows for documents to be linked
                                to one another in a variety of ways, each of which demonstrates
                                different relationships and contexts.



Internet Research




On The Web 19.1
Take a look at the following websites, each of which provides you
                                    with access to archives of government and business
                                    information.
Euromonitor (http://www.euromonitor.com/default.asp): This site is a
                                    global information provider of strategic analysis and market
                                    statistics for dozens of global industries.
National Archives and Records Administration of the United States
                                    (NARA) (http://www.nara.gov): This
                                    site provides a research room that gives details of its records,
                                    plus a search tool, NARA Archival Retrieval Locator (NAIL), for
                                    locating archival sources across the USA.
Public Records Office, England (PRO) (http://www.pro.gov.uk): A site that contains over nine
                                    million files that are searchable through a multi-level
                                    catalogue. The database includes legal and government
                                    archives.
The National Archives of Australia (http://www.naa.gov.au): This site holds federal
                                    government records on defence, immigration, security and
                                    intelligence, naturalization and other issues.
EAN (European Archival Network) (http://www.european-archival.net): A site, organized
                                    alphabetically and geographically, for searching for European
                                    archives.



As well as websites dealing with general government and business
                                information, there are a growing number of sites that offer access
                                to statistics. Sleeman (2002) distinguishes between two kinds of
                                site:
Statistics websites: These are the websites of
                                        agencies (often government agencies) that collect statistics
                                        and make them available online. Not only can data tables be
                                        viewed, the sites often provide tools with which the data
                                        can be manipulated and analysed.Data archives: These provide indexes to data sets
                                        gathered from a wide variety of research projects and
                                        organizations, often allowing users to download full data
                                        sets for analysis on their own computers.
The websites suggested in On the Web 19.2 provide you with an
                                opportunity to explore examples of each type of website.

On The Web 19.2

Statistics Websites
US Census Bureau (http://www.census.gov): Provides data on the US
                                        population, income, housing, and economic and government
                                        statistics.
Statistical Resources on the Web (http://www.lib.umich.edu/libhome/documents.center/stats.html):
                                        A vast guide with links to economics, politics and sociology
                                        sources.


Data Archives
National Digital Archive of Datasets (NDAD) (http://www.ndad.ulcc.ac.uk): Provides access to
                                            computer data sets of UK government departments and
                                            agencies.
ICPSR (The Inter-university Consortium for Political and
                                            Social Research) (http://www.icpsr.umich.edu): Provides access to
                                            the world's largest archive of computerized
                                            social science data.





Monitoring Technology
Many workplaces are now becoming penetrated by a growing
                                infrastructure of technology capable of monitoring work performance.
                                Leaving aside, for a moment, any ethical issues, the data generated
                                from such technology are not only of value to the organizations that
                                had it installed, but also to researchers - if they are able
                                to gain access to it. Davies (2001) discusses both the range and
                                power of the emerging technologies, including miniature cameras that
                                monitor employee behaviour, 'smart' ID badges that
                                track an employee's movements in a building, and telephone
                                management systems analysing the patterns of telephone use and the
                                destination of calls.
Advances in location tracking now mean that geostationary
                                satellite-based systems can send information on the precise location
                                of an employee or vehicle back to a tracking centre. In the growing
                                IT industry, employee use of their computer can also be monitored
                                and measured, including the number of keystrokes they have been
                                making, which websites they have accessed and the amount of time the
                                computer was idle during the day. Many businesses routinely analyse
                                their employees' email. Software can be used for analysing an
                                organization's entire email traffic phrase by phrase,
                                including a search for specific key words. In telephone call
                                centres, software monitors the length and content of calls and the
                                timing and duration of employee toilet and lunch breaks. Software
                                can also monitor how often a call worker uses a customer's
                                name and how often they try to overcome a potential
                                customer's initial objection to a sale.



Workplace Email Monitoring


Closed circuit television (CCTV) equipment is also now becoming
                                commonplace where people travel, shop, socialize and even work.
                                According to Davies:

Once viewed as a blunt tool of surveillance, CCTV in the space of
                                    fifteen years is now seen as an integral design component of the
                                    urban and the work environment. (Davies, 2001: 13)

Certainly CCTV is now becoming an integral component in modern
                                retailing. Kirkup and Carrigan (2000) relate how CCTV is being used
                                for:
Security: To deter shoplifters and pickpockets and
                                        also to detect fraudulent activities among staff.Safety: To see who is still in a building after a
                                        fire or security alert.Training: Allowing a retailer to capture the
                                        behaviour of both staff and customers that can then be used
                                        in staff development programmes.
But it is the research dimension where CCTV can provide a valuable
                                mechanism for understanding consumer behaviour. For example, it can
                                help retailers (or the researchers they commission) to:
Analyse customer flows.Evaluate the impact of store refits.Identify ways of increasing store penetration.Measure dwell-time in different departments or on specific
                                        displays.Understand the nature of interactions between staff and
                                        customers.
Image 19.1
                                    CCTV equipment in use - an example of monitoring
                                    technology© iStock.com / stnazkul
In short, CCTV allows the retailer to explore the relationships
                                between the profile of shoppers, their level of involvement in
                                browsing and trialling, and the nature of their response to
                                different stimuli (Kirkup and Carrigan, 2000). Digital technology
                                can now be used both to gather and to analyse data. Software called
                                'The Observer', for example, allows for the
                                computerized coding of observations, and the production of video
                                'highlights'.

On The Web 19.3
Take a look at the specifications for The Observer software and
                                    what you can do with it at:

http://www.noldus.com/products/index.html





Ethical Issues In Using Digital Technology

Ethics And The Internet
Once email communication has occurred between people, it remains
                                available for other people to access in the future. In the case of
                                newsgroups this can be for days or weeks, but for mailing lists it
                                can be for as much as two years. These posts and archives, then, can
                                be used by researchers as documents for analysis, and form a
                                potentially rich source of data. Sixsmith and Murray (2001),
                                however, raise some intriguing ethical issues linked specifically to
                                research using the Internet.



Ethics in Online Research



Accessing Voices
The ethical obligations of researchers go beyond the need merely
                                    to protect participants. It is also necessary to involve those
                                    in the research process whose voices are rarely heard in research, and for
                                    whom the new digital media provide a unique opportunity for
                                    communication. This could include socially disadvantaged groups,
                                    and people with disabilities. For Flietas (referenced in
                                    Sixsmith and Murray, 2001), email and Internet chatrooms may be
                                    perfect communication tools to address this problem. However,
                                    some of the potential ethical difficulties researchers face in
                                    accessing and using Internet postings were discussed in Chapter 4.


Gaining Consent
As we saw in Chapter 4, an important
                                    feature of ethical considerations is that participants give
                                    their fully informed consent. An exception to this principle is
                                    observational research in which behaviour in the public domain
                                    may be observed without consent, so that natural behaviour can
                                    be observed in its context. But in 'observing'
                                    email and Internet communications, are researchers similarly
                                    free from seeking consent? As Sixsmith and Murray (2001)
                                    comment, this is a highly contentious issue. Some researchers
                                    believe that all posts on the Internet are in the public domain
                                    and are, therefore, available for research purposes without the
                                    need for consent. But as Sixsmith and Murray warn (and as we
                                    noted in Chapter 4), such a practice
                                    could lead to distrust and anger amongst discussion forum
                                    participants and would be highly damaging. Yet, if researchers
                                    do consult the discussion group, they run the risk of alerting
                                    participants to the fact that they are being observed and this
                                    may alter the dynamics of the group interaction. The observation
                                    would no longer be unobtrusive in the strictest sense. But
                                    Sixsmith and Murray conclude that the best course of ethical
                                    action is for researchers to consult the introductory notes or
                                    charters of electronic forums.
Even when following these kinds of guidelines, if undertaking
                                    research through a discussion list it is prudent to contact the
                                    list moderator to gain permission for the research. Even if
                                    permission is granted, researchers need to be aware that their
                                    activities may not be greeted with approval by all members on
                                    the list. In joining a discussion group, researchers should
                                    announce their presence as researchers. But later on, other new
                                    members will be unaware of this intrusion unless researchers
                                    post reminders of their presence. Of course, they will also have
                                    access to the posts of those who left messages but subsequently
                                    left the group. These people will be unaware that their comments
                                    are being used by researchers.


Respecting Privacy
The ethics of research stipulate that the privacy and anonymity
                                    of participants must be respected during the research process
                                    (American Psychological Association, 1992). However, in
                                    practical terms, distinguishing between what is private and
                                    public behaviour can be difficult, since some private behaviour
                                    (for example, private conversations, intimate behaviour, etc.)
                                    can be observed in public places. Hence, the concept of privacy
                                    needs to be understood within its specific social setting.



Ethics of Internet Research


In the case of discussion list posts, the researcher has to
                                    establish whether these are made in a public or private context.
                                    The problem here is that participants may tend to regard their
                                    posts as public (to the group) but private as far as outsiders
                                    are concerned. Since many posts are made from home-based
                                    computers, participants may tend to assume that their privacy
                                    will be respected. It may be useful, then, to distinguish
                                    between discussion groups, where privacy is probably assumed,
                                    and mailing lists where posts may be transmitted to hundreds or
                                    thousands of subscribers. Since the latter are available to
                                    everyone on the Internet, it is fairly safe to assume that they
                                    can be regarded as being in the public domain.



Ensuring Anonymity
In using archived posts for research analysis, the anonymity of
                                    participants should be preserved. Any information that could
                                    identify the originators of the post should be removed,
                                    including names or pseudonyms used, as well as the names and
                                    locations of lists and newsgroups. The problem here, however, is
                                    that the removal of this kind of information also limits the
                                    possibilities of thick description, that is, relating the
                                    research data with features such as the age, nationality and
                                    occupation of participants. Despite this problem, it is respect
                                    for ethical principles that should take priority.


Avoiding Misinterpretation
In analysing data, it is important that the researcher does not
                                    misrepresent the participant's meaning or views. This can
                                    be a particular danger when using data from discussion forums or
                                    archives because the data available may be incomplete (often old
                                    posts are deleted by the moderator or writers themselves).
                                    Another problem is that the discussion group data may not
                                    represent the entire communication process, since some
                                    participants will exchange emails privately.
To reduce the danger of misinterpretation, tracts of related
                                    messages need to be considered as a group, especially since
                                    messages are often related to each other in a thread. This
                                    allows for the discursive context of a message to be considered
                                    through a more grounded interpretation.


Identifying Ownership
This is a complex issue. Do posts or archives belong to the
                                    poster (author), the discussion group or the observer (who may
                                    be a researcher)? Issues of intellectual property rights and the
                                    Internet are contentious and, as yet, still largely
                                    unresolved.
JISCmail (2008), for example, a UK discussion list for the
                                    academic community, states that ownership of an email sent to a
                                    forum within the JISCmail community remains with the poster of
                                    that email. The sender also retains the moral right to be named
                                    as the author of the work. But JISCmail also warn that the
                                    poster of a message gives JISCmail permission to reproduce,
                                    distribute and archive their message as appropriate. JISCmail
                                    users may also read, save, download and print all messages sent
                                    within the JISCmail system. Hence, sending a message to a
                                    public, online discussion list is rather like sending a letter
                                    to the editor of a newsletter - it would be regarded as
                                    intended for publication, unless there was a stipulation by the
                                    sender that this was not the case. But in sending a message to a
                                    discussion group, the sender still retains 'moral
                                    rights' to work and would expect that:
The message is not changed or reworded if forwarded on
                                            to others without the author's permission.The message is not quoted out of context in a way that
                                            would mislead people or damage the author's
                                            reputation.The name of the original sender would always be
                                            acknowledged.



Data Ownership





Attributing Authorship
It is the convention always to attribute authorship when making a
                                direct quotation from someone's work. But what if the source
                                is a discussion group? We have seen that JISCmail (2008) regards
                                emails as similar to published works so that any quotation should
                                include a credit to its source. However, as we have seen, this
                                contradicts people's right to anonymity. The solution here is
                                to request the author's permission before making long
                                quotations.



Ethics And Monitoring Technology
Many of the above issues, particularly those relating to privacy, are
                                also raised by the growth of monitoring technology, such as CCTV
                                cameras and other surveillance media. Carrigan and Kirkup (2001)
                                argue that the researcher's main responsibility is to those
                                that are observed, but there are also responsibilities to other
                                groups, namely:
The client who has commissioned the research.The general public who may not want to be filmed in certain
                                        shops (for example, chemists, opticians or lingerie
                                        stores).Innocent bystanders, since modern surveillance cameras have
                                        a 360° field of vision and are capable of filming
                                        well beyond their intended zone.The police or legal system if criminal activities are
                                        observed.Employees who may be concerned that recordings of their good
                                        or bad behaviour will affect their pay or promotional
                                        prospects.



Benefits of Monitoring Technology


The challenge is in reconciling the interests of these disparate
                                groups. The objective of the research might be monitoring flows of
                                customer traffic within the store to observe interest in particular
                                displays. But later, the store management (clients) might request
                                the recordings to examine employee behaviour. This abuses the
                                privacy rights of the employee and reneges on the purpose of the
                                research. If employees become aware of this kind of potential for
                                abuse, they may become uncooperative, which then threatens the
                                reliability and validity of subsequent research. However, the wishes
                                of clients are difficult to ignore since they are the financial
                                sponsors of the research. One way out of these difficulties is
                                through the design of ethical frameworks.

Ethical Frameworks
Laczniak (cited in Carrigan and Kirkup, 2001) suggests an ethical
                                    framework through which, if any of the following questions can
                                    be answered negatively, then the action is probably
                                    unethical:
Does action A violate the law?Does action A violate any general moral obligations:
                                            justice, beneficence, self-improvement, etc.?Is the intent of action A evil?Are any major evils likely to result from action A?Is a satisfactory alternative, action B, which produces
                                            equal or more good with less evil than action A, being
                                            knowingly rejected?Does action A infringe the inalienable rights of the
                                            participant?Does action A leave another person or group less well
                                            off, and is this person or group already relatively
                                            under-privileged?



Ethical Monitoring Guidelines


The purpose of this framework is to sensitize researchers to the
                                    factors that are important in dealing with ethical issues. For
                                    example, if employees are monitored while customer behaviour is
                                    being recorded, is the framework being violated? The answer is
                                    'Yes'. While no evil is being intended, we cannot
                                    be assured that no evils will arise from the action because
                                    there is no way of knowing whether employers will use the video
                                    evidence against employees. Hence, it becomes important to look
                                    for other defence mechanisms.


Professional Codes Of Conduct
We have seen in previous chapters that many
                                    professional associations that rely on research have put in
                                    place their own professional codes of conduct. In the case of
                                    market research, for
                                    example, this is provided by the Market Research
                                    Society's (MRS) Code of Conduct which in turn is based
                                    upon the International Code of Marketing and Social Research
                                    Practice. In terms of establishing rules on the uses of video
                                    and other recording equipment, the MRS stipulates that:
The researcher must [original emphasis] inform
                                            employees about any recording or monitoring methods
                                            (e.g. tape recording, video recording and presence of a
                                            mirror or a camera) both at recruitment and at the
                                            beginning of an interview, giving the employee the
                                            option not to proceed. This also applies to instances
                                            where remote monitoring is used.
Any audio or video recordings must not
                                                [original emphasis] be released by a researcher or
                                                research agency unless explicit permission has
                                                previously been obtained from all the employees
                                                involved. Where such permission is to be obtained
                                                the researcher must ensure that employees are given
                                                as much relevant information as possible about the
                                                future use of the data, in particular:
To whom they are to be given.To whom they are likely to be shown.For what purposes they are likely to be
                                                  used.
Any recorded data collected for research purposes
                                                must [original emphasis] not be used for any
                                            non-research purpose (Market Research Society,
                                            2010).
However, as Carrigan and Kirkup (2001) note, as yet, many
                                    professional codes contain few specific references to the use of
                                    CCTV in retail settings. They also exclude the need to inform
                                    individuals where observation techniques or recording equipment
                                    are being used in a public place. Unfortunately, one of the
                                    difficulties is in the definition of a 'public
                                    place', with some organizations arguing that this
                                    includes the workplace, thereby gaining exclusion from codes of
                                    conduct. Conversely, employees and their trade unions or
                                    professional associations may disagree with this broad
                                    definition. The codes of conduct of some television companies
                                    suggest that when filming in an institution there is no
                                    obligation to seek agreement when people are shown incidentally,
                                    randomly or anonymously. However, Carrigan and Kirkup (2001)
                                    argue that employees are not anonymous in this sense and so
                                    deserve equal rights of privacy. Where employees are the
                                    specific subject of the surveillance where standards of service
                                    are being evaluated, further safeguards are needed. For example,
                                    the video material should not subsequently be used for purposes
                                    other than the original objective (hence, it should not be used
                                    for disciplinary purposes). Staff should also be informed that
                                    filming is going to take place. The professional code of the
                                    European Society for Opinion and Market Research (ESOMAR)
                                    stipulates that participants must be asked to give their
                                    permission for the use of video recordings for non-research
                                    purposes and should be given the opportunity to have the media
                                    deleted. If researchers pass a video on to a client it must be
                                    labelled with appropriate restrictions.

On The Web 19.4
Take a look at the Market Research Society's Code of
                                        Conduct at:

http://www.mrs.org.uk/

Click on
                                        Code/Guidelines, and look in particular for guidelines
                                        dealing with employees.
See also the website of the European Society for Opinion and
                                        Market Research at:

http://www.esomar.nl/guidelines/Tapeandvideo.htm




Ethical Contracts
Since many professional codes are still trying to catch up with
                                    the ever-changing developments in technology, Carrigan and
                                    Kirkup (2001) suggest that an important safety net can be
                                    provided by ethical contracts. These make transparent the roles
                                    and responsibilities of all stakeholders, including the
                                    researcher, before any research is undertaken through:
Clarifying the aims and nature of the research.Identifying, with stakeholders, any potential conflicts
                                            that may arise.Drafting resolutions to these problems.Seeking the explicit agreement of all those
                                            affected.
If, at any point, a stakeholder wishes to act outside of the
                                    contract, the agreement of all other stakeholders must be
                                    sought.
There are, however, differences between employees and customers
                                    as subjects of surveillance research in that employees can be
                                    identified by the researcher or by their client. As such, the
                                    researcher has a particular responsibility to ensure anonymity
                                    for these individuals, or at least informed consent. Staff
                                    should be given assurance about the objectives of the research
                                    and should be allowed open access at all times to the CCTV
                                    control room. These objectives should not include using
                                    surveillance for non-research purposes such as disciplinary
                                    action, and permission for filming (although not necessarily its
                                    timing) should be sought.
Seeking the permission of customers is much more problematic.
                                    First, it would be simply impractical to ask all customers
                                    individually for their agreement. Secondly, there might be
                                    circumstances when the researcher might not want customers to
                                    know that they were being filmed since this might affect their
                                    subsequent behaviour. Most market research codes of practice
                                    allow researchers to withhold this information to reduce the
                                    risk of bias. But permission would have to be obtained if the
                                    researcher wished to pass on video footage to any third party.
                                    If a recording is passed on to a client, it should be labelled
                                    with appropriate restrictions that the recipient should be made
                                    aware of. It is also important that the video data are not held
                                    for longer than the purposes for which they were collected.
                                    Kirkup and Carrigan (2000) suggest a maximum time period of 31
                                    days for CCTV footage, after which it should be destroyed.




Summary
Unobtrusive measures involve the use of non-reactive sources
                                    such as files, photographs, videos, sound recordings and
                                    drawings, and now the Internet.Unobtrusive measures include the analysis of physical accretion
                                    and erosion measures, and the use of documents that include a
                                    wide range of organizational, business and personal records.One of the advantages of using unobtrusive records is that they
                                    deal with 'dead' data, and they do not pose the
                                    risk faced by many other research methods of reactive
                                    measurement effects such as interviewer bias, or socially
                                    conditioned responses by participants.An important source of unobtrusive measures are documents that
                                    include running records (such as actuarial, political and
                                    judicial records) and episodic records (such as sales records
                                    and personal records).Unobtrusive measures carry with them their own inherent problems
                                    in that documents, for example, may be stored selectively,
                                    survive selectively and be inaccurate and incomplete.The growth of the Internet and monitoring technology such as
                                    CCTV means that the scope for research using unobtrusive
                                    measures is increasing at a rapid rate. However, the new
                                    technology also brings with it new ethical challenges which
                                    require recognizing the interests of disparate groups. The use
                                    of ethical contracts may be one way of reconciling these
                                    different interests.

Review Questions
A researcher seeks to identify the radio stations that
                                        people listen to in his home town. Using an unobtrusive
                                        measures approach, he goes to five of his local garages
                                        where cars are being repaired, and finds what radio stations
                                        car radios are tuned to. He could have used a survey
                                        approach. Why do you think he chose unobtrusive measures in
                                        this case?Thinking of media in your own home or office, are there any
                                        documents, videos, photographs or other media that are now
                                        in a format that cannot be 'read'? What does
                                        this tell you about the vulnerability of digital and other
                                        records?Why is it prudent to use other data gathering methods when
                                        using unobtrusive measures?



Further Reading
Lee, R.M. (2000) Unobtrusive Measures in Social Research.
                                    Buckingham: Open University Press. Given that the pioneering
                                    work of Webb et al. was written in 1966, this is a welcome and
                                    very much updated discussion of the subject. It also contains a
                                    useful chapter on unobtrusive measures and the Internet.Webb, E.J., Campbell, D.T., Schwartz, R.D. and Sechrest, L.
                                    (2000) Unobtrusive Measures. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.
                                    Something of a classic, it was in this book that the term
                                    unobtrusive measures was originally coined and described with
                                    elegance, clarity and intriguing examples. First published in
                                    1966 and helpfully republished by Sage as a revised version in
                                    their Sage Classics series.


Journal Resources
Hill, A.D., White, M.A. and Wallace, J.C. (2014)
                                    'Unobtrusive measurement of psychological constructs in
                                    organizational research', Organizational Psychology
                                        Review, 4(2): 148-174. Discusses the growing
                                    number of unobtrusive sources in organizational research,
                                    including text messages, emails, blogs and photographs in
                                    company annual reports.Marrelli, A.F. (2007) 'Unobtrusive measures',
                                        Performance Improvement, 46(9): 43-47.
                                    Application of unobtrusive measures in performance technology is
                                    outlined, including their advantages and disadvantages.



Suggested Answers For Activity 19.1
Triangulation of methods is evidenced by the fact that the researcher
                            uses observation (of where people consume their drinks), as well as
                            using the unobtrusive indicators. This, certainly, helps towards the
                            reliability of the study.
Using an interview method would probably not have worked here because the
                            honesty of replies could not be assured - and would the manager
                            have believed them?

Don't forget to visit the companion website at https://study.sagepub.com/grayresearchbusiness for the
                                following resources which support this chapter:

















20 Visual Methods

Chapter Introduction

Chapter Outline
Empirical approaches to visual researchTheoretical approaches to visual researchAdvantages of using visual data in organizational
                                        researchChallenges of using visual dataCategories of visual organizational researchTypes of visual media research methodsVisual ethics in context


Keywords
Visual mediaContent analysisVisual research methodsPhoto elicitation



Icon Key







Author Video







Chapter Objectives
After reading this chapter you will be able to:
Distinguish between visual and other research methods.Outline the advantages and drawbacks of using visual
                                        research methods.Describe and make use of visual research methods.Apply ethical principles in the use of visual research
                                        methods.



The world is awash with visual forms of communication, with images a part
                            of contemporary culture and everyday life, imbuing modern society with
                            potent and persuasive means to convey information, evoke mood or sell
                            products (Bolton, Pole and Mizen, 2001). From ergonomically designed
                            workspaces, to logos and symbols of corporate identity, we are
                            constantly bombarded with physical stimuli and their emotive power
                            (Warren, 2002). These visual media include: two-dimensional still visual
                            images such as photographs, cartoons, maps, graphs, logos and diagrams;
                            two-dimensional moving film, television, video and interactive web pages
                            and other multimedia; three-dimensional and lived media such as dress
                            and architecture (Bell and Davison, 2013). One element of this has been
                            the growing importance of the analysis of visual images in research. As
                            Prosser and Loxley (2008) point out, while social sciences have
                            privileged word- and numbers-based approaches, there is a general
                            awakening of visually orientated theoretical frameworks and visual
                            research methods. Indeed, some argue that visual methods reach the parts
                            that other methods cannot reach (Buckingham, 2009). Visual research
                            utilizes our basic capacity to interpret the world through our sense of
                            sight (Pole, 2004). While the analysis of visual images in business
                            research is on the increase, visual methods have an older pedigree,
                            originating in the first half of the twentieth century in the field of
                            social anthropology. In the nineteenth century, anthropologists used
                            photography to document supposed racial 'types' in foreign
                            cultures as part of their study of mankind, as illustrated in Image 20.1
                            - a form of 'scientific' racism.



Logos and Corporate Identity


Image 20.1
                                'Racial types' as designated by a nineteenth century
                                anthropologist
Photographs were also used as a
                            visual notebook to document material elements of culture such as
                            artefacts (for example, pots, beads, masks, etc.). After 1895, with the
                            invention of the motion picture camera, motion film was also used as a
                            visual medium. Banks (1995) notes that contemporary anthropologists are
                            revisiting many of these images to explore what they tell us about the
                            ideas that led to their production (racial stereotypes) as much as the
                            images themselves.
Today methods based on photography and video are essential components of
                            most fields of inquiry, including sociology, health studies, educational
                            research, criminology, media and cultural studies, social psychology and
                            management and organizational studies (the latter the focus of this
                            chapter). As Warren (2008) states, visual methods allow respondents to
                            demonstrate the aesthetic and sensory aspects of organizational life
                            much more vividly than through linguistic methods. However, as Bell and
                            Davison (2013) point out, visual methods remain relatively unexplored in
                            management studies, even though photography was utilized early in the
                            nineteenth century to explore labour processes. Indeed, Ray and Smith
                            (2012) warn that despite the calls for more visual methodologies in
                            organizational research, the use of photographs remains sparse. This
                            situation, though, may be changing with a 'visual turn' in
                            management studies, building on a growing awareness of the importance of
                            aesthetics, sensuality, symbolism and art in organizational life, as
                            counter-weights to the rational approach to organizing. Hence, in
                            business-oriented research, Ray and Smith (2012) report on how visual
                            media have been used to analyse the facial features of CEOs, analyse the
                            professional identification of accountants, how individuals interact
                            with retail spaces, portraits and business leadership construction, and
                            cultural influences in advertising.
However, as the analysis of visual images has grown as a method of
                            scientific inquiry, the question of how researchers should approach this
                            mode of inquiry has also grown in importance. In conducting such an
                            inquiry, Bell and Davison (2013) offer a useful categorization based on
                            a distinction between empirically based methods and theory-based
                            methods, the structure of which we will use next.


Empirical Approaches To Visual Research
We explore some of the technical approaches to visual analysis in Chapter 24, Getting started with
                            NVivo. Here we will examine some of the principles of visual data
                            analysis using photographs (particularly in advertising) as the prime
                            focus. Visual research methods have historically been seen as part of
                            the post-positivist tradition where visual data such as photographs are
                            used as factual evidence to support a realist narrative (Denzin and
                            Lincoln, 2005). However, increasingly visual research methods have also
                            been used in a more critical manner where the social construction of
                            images is brought into question (see Critical visual analysis, below).
                            We will explore aspects of this approach in the section that follows.
                            Empirical approaches include visual content analysis using coding of
                            pictures and photographs, and visual elicitation where visual data are
                            used to elicit conversations about a subject through interviews or focus
                            groups. One of the limitations of empirical approaches is that they
                            often give limited information on how visual data should be analysed and
                            interpreted (Bell and Davison, 2013). Another weakness is the
                            'myth of transparency', the idea that visual images offer
                            a window on the truth (Pink,
                            2013) in that, say, a photograph presents what actually happened. This,
                            however, ignores the cultural and historical context in which images are
                            produced, a realist epistemological stance that privileges the visual as
                            a reflection of reality. Collier (2001) distinguishes between those
                            approaches that directly examine the content of images as data (such as
                            content analysis), and those that more indirectly use the images as
                            triggers for features not directly present in the images themselves. We
                            will look at three approaches here: content analysis, semiotics and
                            critical visual analysis.

Visual Content Analysis
The first step in content analysis is cataloguing the
                                'seen' elements in the photograph, counting elements
                                just as one would in counting word frequencies in textual content
                                analysis (Banks, 2007). By implication, the frequency of a feature
                                is taken as an indication of its significance. The researcher also
                                has to pay attention to details in the photograph and reflect on the
                                context in which it was taken. For visual content analysis to be
                                successful, there must be at least two different sets of data (such
                                as from two different publications or two different periods) so that
                                comparisons can be generated. For example, we might want to compare
                                the visual representation of women and men in advertisements or
                                company reports (as in Case Study 20.1, below). As we will see in Chapter 24, software such as
                                NVivo allows the researcher to tag the physical elements within a
                                photograph. Patterns of features across a photograph can then be
                                identified.
In a study of images of tourism in brochures and guidebooks, for
                                example, photographs were coded according to the type of physical
                                environment that was represented, the type of people in the image
                                and the information used to analyse the social effects of tourism
                                (Hunter, 2008). The researcher found that the images cast the
                                natural and cultural resources of a destination in a positive light
                                and even prescribe the proper host-tourist interactions
                                through their depictions. Content analysis has also been used in
                                other contexts such as the analysis of company annual reports and
                                the ways in which they present gender and diversity issues (Anderson
                                and Imperia, 1992) - see Case
                                    Study 20.1 below. However, as Bell and Davison (2013) point
                                out, the visual content analysis approach does have some inherent
                                difficulties. For example, deciding on what constitutes a visual
                                image is not always straightforward; how does the researcher code a
                                visual image that contains several pictures or photographs; and how
                                to measure images - by their occurrence or the space
                                occupied? Users of visual content analysis also tend to focus on the
                                analysis of only the researcher, ignoring how participants or other
                                audiences might interpret images.

Case Study 20.1

A Photo Analysis Of Female And Male Portrayals
                                        At Work
The company annual report is designed to convey the
                                        personality and philosophy of the firm to readers, who
                                        include individual investors, potential customers,
                                        institutional investors, bankers, professional analysts and
                                        others. Anderson and Imperia (1992), however, question the
                                        messages conveyed in these reports about women, including
                                        sexual stereotyping. Photographs in a firm's annual
                                        report serve a number of purposes: furthermore, they help
                                        illustrate what the company's buildings, products,
                                        employees, customers and managers look like; images tell a
                                        story that is more convincing than text alone. In their
                                        study, Anderson and Imperia looked at themes that included:
                                        male dominance, work roles and the portrayal of women as
                                        less serious, less useful persons.



Gendered Portraits


The passenger
                                        airline industry was chosen as a unit for study, partly
                                        because it employs many women and because it has been highly
                                        occupationally segregated (e.g., male pilots and female
                                        stewardesses). A total of 119 annual reports were studied
                                        from 25 different firms. Using content analysis, photographs
                                        were coded to detect indicators of sexism including the
                                        depiction of females as performing passive (non-working or
                                        helping) roles as opposed to action roles, canting postures
                                        (head or other parts of the body, tilted), or non-serious
                                        behaviour. Posed photographs (rather than those depicting
                                        work or travel) were scored against the following
                                        measures:
Orientation to the camera: 1 = direct; 2 =
                                                7/8 or slight turn with both ears visible and slight
                                                asymmetry of face; 3 = 3/4 or more of moderate to
                                                high aversion with one ear visible and moderate
                                                asymmetry of face.Smiling: 1 = no smile; 2 = simple smile (no
                                                teeth showing); 3 = broad smile (teeth
                                                showing).Head canting measured by drawing a line
                                                bisecting the face from mid chin to mid forehead and
                                                measuring the angle between this line and a vertical
                                                line: 1 = none; 2 = moderate (1 to 15 degrees); 3 =
                                                high (more than 15 degrees)
Travellers were classified as either business or leisure by
                                        their clothing or other visual clues such as briefcase,
                                        laptop computer or active involvement in reading or writing.
                                        Gestures such as hands orientation were also measured. Two
                                        raters independently scored each report, with a high degree
                                        of inter-rater reliability being achieved (r = .92). Given
                                        that the data were nominal, statistical evaluation comprised
                                        Chi-square analysis.
The 119 reports yielded 1,388 photographs of which 430 were
                                        discarded because they only included non-human subjects
                                        (e.g. aircraft, etc.). Table 20.1 reports on the depiction of male and
                                        female non-flight crew employees. It shows that photographs
                                        of non-flight employees were far more likely to be depicted
                                        as men (n = 451) rather than women (n = 226). Women were
                                        also more likely to be presented in non-working situations
                                        (75 per cent of males were depicted at work compared to 49
                                        per cent of females: Chi-square = 26.41, d.f. = 2, p
                                        < .001). When males were not actively working they
                                        were more often shown alongside cues about work role such as
                                        the presence of uniform or a background of an aircraft or
                                        hangar.


Note: Numbers in
                                            parentheses are column percentages

Data analysis of photographs of executives and employees
                                        focusing on the variables of smile, cant and orientation,
                                        found that male executives were portrayed as more serious
                                        (less likely to be portrayed as smiling), than female employees, but
                                        this did not hold for female executives when compared to
                                        female employees. For women at all levels, the depiction of
                                        them smiling was a statistically significant difference
                                        between men and women, with women more likely to be
                                        portrayed smiling. Similarly with body cant, two-thirds of
                                        men were presented with no body cant, while for women this
                                        was 40 per cent. Anderson and Imperia (1992) conclude that
                                        annual reports in the airline industry presented gender
                                        differences in photography similar to those shown in other
                                        media, showing wide differences in the depiction of gender,
                                        an example of sexual stereotyping.



Activity 20.1
Take a company annual report or brochure the company publishes
                                    about itself. Locate all the photos depicting people and conduct
                                    a frequency count on how many are male and female. How many
                                    males are presented in work situations compared to females?
                                    Which figure is the larger? How many people are smiling? Are
                                    there more smiling depictions of women than of men?


Top Tip 20.1
When conducting empirical research within a workplace, look out
                                    for any in-house company magazine or similar publications.
                                    Explore the brand or image being presented. Could any visual
                                    images within the documentation be used to supplement your
                                    research?



Top Tip: Using Visual Research





Visual Elicitation
Visual elicitation methods are another empirical approach because
                                data are generated during the research process. This may happen in
                                one of four ways: by using pre-existing visual data; data generated
                                by the researcher; data generated by research participants; or data
                                generated collaboratively by the researcher and participants. While
                                the taking of visual images by the researcher for the purpose of
                                research is comparatively rare in management studies, it is more
                                common for researchers to involve participants in the process of
                                generating and/or analysing visual data (Bell and Davison,
                                2013).



Advertising Archives



Pre-Existing Visual Data Used As A Basis For
                                    Interview/Discussion
In contrast to researcher-created and participant-created
                                    photographs, researchers can also make use of pre-existing
                                    visual data such as photo archives often found in public and
                                    university libraries, professional associations and corporate
                                    libraries. Not only are archives less costly to use, one
                                    advantage is that they can be used to trace organizational
                                    changes over time (Ray and Smith, 2012). Parker (2006), for
                                    example, suggests how photographic archives can provide evidence
                                    for the staffing and layout of an organization, and gender
                                    presence and roles. However, researchers should be clear about
                                    their research questions and the role that photographs can play
                                    in answering them. One significant drawback is the lack of
                                    knowledge of the context in which the photos were taken,
                                    including the intent of the photograph and what was not photographed or left
                                    out of the frame. The intellectual property rights attached to
                                    photographs may also be problematic and costly. We noted in Chapter 19 that archival
                                    records may survive selectively. In the case of photographs,
                                    those that represent the organization in a positive light may
                                    have more chance of surviving than those that are mostly
                                    negative.


Researcher-Created Visual Data
As Prosser and Loxley (2008) point out, still and moving
                                    photographs provide the backbone of visual research in sociology
                                    and anthropology from around 1900 to the mid-1960s during which
                                    time there was an assumption that the images generated by the
                                    researcher represented 'reality'. During this time
                                    the analytical focus was on a researcher-centred understanding
                                    of the content of the image. More recently, this has been
                                    challenged, with the focus on the analysis broadening out to
                                    encompass other voices including those of respondents (see next section). The
                                    researcher-created approach has the advantage of offering an
                                    element of control over the process (Ray and Smith, 2012). One
                                    of the disadvantages is the potential for researcher
                                    self-consciousness when taking photographs in a work environment
                                    and possibly hostile member reactions to the presence of the
                                    researcher. This, however, could be addressed by the researcher
                                    becoming embedded in the organization before photography takes
                                    place and getting managers to explain the purpose of the study
                                    to organizational members. Researcher-created visual images are
                                    well-suited for research where the documentation of
                                    organizational change is needed. According to Prosser and Loxely
                                    (2008) visual images can document a scene quickly and more
                                    completely than could be accomplished if the researcher were
                                    merely to take notes. For example, a camera image can
                                    'freeze' a scene in detail, such as people
                                    attending a team meeting, or the evacuation of a factory during
                                    a practice fire drill. Furthermore, photographs can be taken
                                    fairly unobtrusively compared to more conventional
                                    approaches.
It is important, however, that the researcher does not merely
                                    wander around an organization snapping photographs - some
                                    element of pre-planning is essential. Petersen and
                                    Østergaard (2003) suggest what they call an observational
                                    guide, linked to the aim of the research, which in their case
                                    was knowledge sharing in an organization. Table
                                        20.2 presents some of their ideas. Note that the
                                    researchers wanted to capture situations showing knowledge
                                    sharing but also where it seemed absent.



Photographs in Organizational
                                            Research




Adapted from Petersen N.J. and
                                        Østergaard, S. (2003) 'Organisational
                                        Photography as a Research Method: What, How and Why'.
                                        Academy of Management Proceedings, Seattle. 1-6
                                        August. Reproduced by permission of the Academy of
                                        Management.



Top Tip 20.2
If creating visual data, say, through taking photographs,
                                        avoid generating suspicion or hostility amongst employees by
                                        taking your time to become 'embedded' and
                                        accepted. Get managers to explain the purpose of the study
                                        to organizational members.



Participant-Created Visual Data
With participant-created visual data, the researcher elicits the
                                    collaboration of, say, individuals or teams of employees who
                                    take an active role in capturing visual data using still or
                                    video cameras. One of the positive features of
                                    participant-created visual data is that it is the subjective
                                    perspective of participants that is brought to the fore, rather
                                    than the researcher's assumptions as to what is important
                                    (Vince and Warren, 2012). However, Ray and Smith (2012) warn
                                    that one of the disadvantages is that participants are usually
                                    missing from their own photographs; they can also misrepresent
                                    themselves by only taking positive shots.
The extent to which researchers adopt this approach depends on
                                    whether they see respondents as 'the other' or as
                                    experts in their own lives (Prosser and Loxley, 2008). This
                                    recognition of respondents' role, however, needs to be
                                    seen as being positioned on a continuum rather than as an
                                    'either/or' scenario. To some extent, it may also
                                    be misleading to pose a dichotomy between researcher and
                                    participant-created images, since both may be used in the same
                                    study (Bell and Davison, 2013). For example, Bell's
                                    (2012) study of the UK-based Jaguar car plant owned by Ford
                                    Motors, used visual data generated by the researcher as well as
                                    visual data produced by organization members as part of their
                                    everyday activities (see Case
                                        Study 20.4). Buckingham (2009) describes how, in
                                    consumer research, companies often provide participants with
                                    disposable cameras, asking them to produce drawings or visual
                                    diaries. Similarly, Warren (2002) gave cameras to employees in a
                                    website design department in an IT company and asked them to
                                    show 'how it felt' to work there. Other
                                    researchers have asked research participants to draw pictures to
                                    represent their organization, before using these as a basis for
                                    focus group discussions or interviews. However, as Bell and
                                    Davison (2013) note, in these photo-elicitation studies,
                                    drawings are produced which often play a subordinate role as a
                                    means of accessing linguistic interpretations, as Case Study 20.2 shows.


Collaborative Approaches To Photographic
                                    Production
In a collaborative approach to visual research, the researcher
                                    and participant work together to produce visual images that are
                                    authentic representations of the research context (Pink, 2013).
                                    Some studies make use of both researcher-created photographs and
                                    also participant-created, while others include these and also
                                    archive photographs. This hybrid approach offers the possibility
                                    of triangulation (Ray and Smith, 2012). Another hybrid approach
                                    is where the researcher walks around the workplace with the
                                    participant while the former takes photographs based on the
                                    stories participants are telling about events and features. The
                                    photographs can be used later to get participants to expand on
                                    their stories. The following Case Study provides an illustration
                                    of collaborative visual research methods in practice.


Case Study 20.2

The Brand Experience Of
                                            Harley-Davidson
In a three-year ethnographic study in Australia, Schembri
                                            (2008) explored the consumer's experience of the
                                            iconic Harley-Davidson motorbike brand. Not only do
                                            brands yield functional benefits, some brand attributes
                                            generate brand 'personality', encouraging
                                            preference for that brand. The Harley-Davidson is a
                                            particularly appropriate focus for exploring brands
                                            because it is associated with a vibrant biking
                                            subculture, based around the social, political and
                                            spiritual dimensions of a broader biker ethos, within
                                            which, different factions interpret these dimensions in
                                            different ways. Some bikers' clubs include
                                            clean-shaven professionals or even women, while
                                            traditional Harley (boys') clubs continue to
                                            exclude females other than as sexual objects.
In her research study, Schembri (2008) first of all
                                            sought to gain cultural immersion by buying a
                                            Harley-Davidson and spending many hours riding with
                                            Harley Owners Group (HOG) members. As she comments,
                                            'Shifting roles from riding bitch to owner and
                                            rider, the author became more intimately aware of what
                                            Harley-Davidson means' (Schembri, 2008: 1302).
                                            She undertook fieldwork that included participant
                                            observation along with informal and unstructured field
                                            interviews, all recorded on a hand-held camcorder. To
                                            gain an overview of the subculture, she began by
                                            interviewing marginal members before moving on to key
                                            players to gather more detailed information. She also
                                            studied the Harley Owners Group (HOG) monthly chapter
                                            magazine. But visual images were not only
                                            researcher-created. The researcher invited HOG members
                                            to take an active part in filming. One member, for
                                            example, filmed a five-day 2,500 mile journey from
                                            Wollongong NSW to Ayers Rock in Northern Territory
                                            during which he also interviewed fellow HOG members
                                            about their experience. As Schembri (2008) comments,
                                            through this collaboration, the validity of the study
                                            was enhanced because this became a negotiated version of
                                            reality.
Image
                                                  20.2 Motorcyclists, Australia© iStock.com /
                                                Petej



Activity 20.2
Exploring Case Study 20.2, what does this tell you about
                                        subgroups within the Harley Owners Group? How should the
                                        visual methods researcher seek to capture the different
                                        views of this diverse group?






Theoretical Approaches To Visual Research
So far we have looked at empirical approaches to data analysis. In this
                            section we switch to theoretical approaches that include aesthetics,
                            semiotics and rhetoric, and ethical philosophy. Theoretical approaches
                            in visual organizational research are useful in focusing attention on
                            the analytical approach adopted and the type of knowledge generated, and
                            hence are important for creating a theoretical lens for analysis (Bell
                            and Davison, 2013). In contrast to empirical approaches, theoretical
                            visual research adopts a more reflexive stance towards data collection
                            and analysis. Hence, meaning is not regarded as an external
                            'truth' but is derived through the interpretations of
                            research participants (Bell and Davison, 2013).

Aesthetics

Art Theory
These are theoretical frameworks derived from the study of fine
                                    art. Unfortunately, this has often meant the study of the visual
                                    image in art history, making these models difficult to apply to
                                    organizational research. Similarly, film theory tends to focus
                                    on the cultural worth of the film and is of limited application
                                    to the study of organizations. There are, however, exceptions.
                                    Schroeder (2005) looks at product branding and how marketing
                                    campaigns draw on visual materials (logos, product design,
                                    packaging, etc.) to create distinctive brand images through the
                                    medium of visual art. Artists, he argues, are themselves
                                    examples of image creation - they build their own
                                    recognized look, name and style. Art is also used to build brand
                                    images in what is now a visual culture. Schroeder (2005)
                                    analyses the work of several artists, including Andy Warhol,
                                    arguing, for example, that Warhol's soup can series shows
                                    that brands are psychological and unattached to the goods they
                                    inhabit. We consume the brand as much as we consume the soup.
                                    Warhol's can series celebrates product design, packaging,
                                    retail display and mass production.


Fashion And Dress
A number of studies have explored dress codes in organizations.
                                    Employees who are well dressed are believed to form better
                                    impressions with colleagues, clients and customers (Cardon and
                                    Okoro, 2009). Hence, many companies create dress codes in order
                                    to gain the benefits of a professional looking workforce.
                                    Sometimes, however, employees may resist dress codes, regarding
                                    them as restrictive and hierarchical. In other situations,
                                    employees may adhere to an unwritten but
                                    'understood' dress code. Rafaeli and Pratt (1993)
                                    suggest that employees who fail to adhere to dress standards
                                    suffer the consequences, which range from insults and ridicule
                                    to losing their jobs. Indeed, they argue that adding analyses of
                                    dress to studies of organizations can enhance the understanding
                                    of organizational behaviour. Organizational dress includes
                                    clothing (e.g., jacket, skirts, trousers) and artefacts (e.g.,
                                    security passes, jewellery, watches) that employees of an
                                    organization wear while at work. Some organizations have strict
                                    dress codes, for example:

Employee Dress and Appearance Standard It is our
                                        policy to mandate a dress and appearance standard for
                                        employees. . . . Employees shall not wear blue jeans (any
                                        color denim material including 'designer
                                        labels') during work time. Employees shall not wear
                                        sun dresses, mini skirts, or shorts, during work time.
                                        (Rafaeli and Pratt, 1993: 34)

Rafaeli and Pratt
                                    (1993) argue that dress in organizations conveys meanings: (a)
                                    through the attributes of the dress (i.e., colour, material, or
                                    style) and (b) through the comparisons it enables among members
                                    of the organization and between members and non-members of the
                                    organization. Some styles of clothes, for example, may symbolize
                                    higher status than others. So a formal and tailored suit may
                                    convey more status than informal and casual styles. Dress may
                                    also indicate processes that are internal to the organization in
                                    two ways: (a) it may reveal values inherent to the
                                    organizational culture; (b) it may indicate the nature of
                                    division of labour in the organization. In her study, Dellinger
                                    (2002) found that accountants dressed in formal suits as a
                                    signal of their skills and abilities, juxtaposing themselves to
                                    the workers in art and editorial departments who are more
                                    'carefree'. Hence, accountants see themselves as
                                    part of the business side of a company, setting the standard for
                                    what it means (for them) to be 'professional'.



Semiotics And Rhetoric
Semiotics is the study of signs and how meanings are made and reality
                                represented through sign systems (Bell and Davison, 2013). It is
                                particularly concerned with the ideological and power bases of
                                images and how they are used to construct cultural meanings. In
                                doing this, the focus is often on the role of the sign maker in
                                shaping meaning in accordance with their vested interests. Hence,
                                there are notions here of multiple interpretations and the
                                importance of both the sign maker and the viewer in constructing
                                meaning. Exploring the construction of community life within the
                                world of Nike women's advertising, Grow (2006) uses a
                                semiotic analysis of 27 Nike print campaigns across a ten year
                                period from 1990 to 2000, to show how Nike's advertising
                                systematically constructed women's athletic experience within
                                a series of mediated communities, framed within fitness and sports.
                                The sign that binds these two oppositional experiences together is
                                the Nike swoosh. The advertising weaves together known everyday life
                                experiences of females (fitness and sport) and spins them into new,
                                previously little known, experiences in the athletic arena based on
                                empowerment and community (Grow, 2006).


Critical Visual Analysis
Critical visual analysis seeks to connect images to their cultural
                                context of consumption by posing questions such as: How do images
                                communicate strategically? How do images circulate in consumer
                                culture? How do customers interpret and understand these images? How
                                do images relate to brand meaning? (Schroeder, 2006). Critical
                                visual analysis is concerned with identity and how this interplays
                                with issues such as gender, race and sexual orientation. Hence,
                                consumers are seen to construct and perform identities in
                                collaboration with brand culture. In contrast to semiotics with its
                                focus on the construction of meaning, critical visual analysis
                                relies on description, articulating the form, subject matter, genre,
                                medium, colour, light, line and size - the elements that
                                build the image (Schroeder, 2006). Ideally, interpretations emerge
                                from the description. Case Study 20.3 provides an illustration.



Visual Brand Identity




Case Study 20.3

Critical Analysis: Calvin Klein And Gender
                                        Identity
Schroeder (2006) provides a critical analysis of the Calvin
                                        Klein marketing campaign of the 1990s, through describing
                                        and analysing the subject matter, genre and other features
                                        of the advertisements. These advertisements became famous
                                        for their controversial content, particularly their
                                        sexualized images. Taking the CK One fragrance and its
                                        slogan 'For a man or a woman', Schroeder notes
                                        that the product is closely linked to gender identity and
                                        sexual allure and uses these to subvert gender norms. To
                                        understand how this is achieved, Schroeder turns to the
                                        subject matter to identify and describe people, objects,
                                        places or events in the photograph. Taking one notable
                                        advertisement which appeared across six pages of the 1994
                                            Glamour magazine, Schroeder notes the stark use
                                        of black and white images and that people are standing, most
                                        of them facing the camera. But central to the figures is
                                        Kate Moss, the British supermodel, who dominates the scene.
                                        Her well-known romantic liaisons with male stars gives the
                                        viewer a 'hook' into the advertisement that
                                        guides our interpretation. The multiracial appearance of the
                                        models also contributes to the ad's character,
                                        particularly because gender diversity was rarely seen in ad
                                        campaigns during this period.
In analysing the form of the advertisement, that is,
                                        the way the subject matter is presented, Schroeder notes
                                        that in the original ad, the image folds out to reveal more
                                        CK One images.This form resembles a polyptych, a work
                                        of art consisting of four panels such as those found in
                                        altarpieces presenting sacred subjects.This altarpiece
                                        aspect gives the ad an additional art historical resonance.
                                        Schroeder even claims that this may contribute to the
                                        'worship' of the CK One icons.
Genre is concerned with a type or category, in the
                                        case of the CK One ad, a group portrait. Group portrait
                                        painting first became established in sixteenth century
                                        Holland, where guild members commissioned an artist to paint
                                        them - as a celebration of their commercial success.
                                        Schroeder comments that in the CK One ad, the people adopt
                                        strange poses that contribute to the conceptual meaning of
                                        the image: these consumers are different - they use
                                        CK One. There are other connections between the CK One ad
                                        and sixteenth century Dutch art. Each uses visual
                                        conventions to represent group identity. In the Dutch
                                        example it is membership of the guild; in the CK One ad, it
                                        is common consumption of the brand.
Image
                                                20.3 CK One© iStock.com /
                                            evemilla


Source: Adapted from Schroeder, 2006




Activity 20.3
Take a look at the inVisio website at: www.in-visio.org. The International Network for Visual
                                    Studies in Organization has been created to bring together
                                    researchers, practitioners and artists exploring the visual
                                    dimensions of business, management and organizational life.




Advantages Of Using Visual Data In Organizational
                            Research
As we have seen in the previous section, visual data provide such a rich
                            array of research data because organizations communicate using a vast
                            array of visual resources: products, architecture and workplace design,
                            websites, printed literature (reports, advertising brochures) and the
                            physical appearance of its members (Kunter and Bell, 2006). Visual data
                            allows for a more sophisticated understanding of the contested nature of
                            organizational cultures and their complex networks of
                            interrelationships. Visual data such as photographs can provide a means
                            of data collection and analysis that is less restrictive than other
                            methods (e.g. interviews, diaries and surveys) where respondent (faulty)
                            recall may generate bias (Ray and Smith, 2012). They can capture rich
                            data and also work well when words alone are inadequate to capture the
                            field experience, or when participants suffer from poor literacy
                            standards. They also capture organizational experiences in real time
                            - tracking a process across an organization. They can also
                            capture the voices of a wide range of organizational members (Warren,
                            2009).
Visual data can also be used to draw attention to the embodied identity
                            of the researcher. In other words, rather than trying to hide the
                            presence of the researcher, he or she can be shown, say, interacting
                            with research participants. The incorporation of the ethnographic self
                            in the ethnographic research involves treating the researcher not just
                            as a narrator of the research story but also as an integral part of it
                            (Kunter and Bell, 2006). Taking visual images can also force
                            fieldworkers to engage and empathize with participants in their own
                            settings. This close engagement, however, requires the researcher to
                            adopt a reflexive approach, questioning their personal assumptions.


Challenges Of Using Visual Methods
The use of visual data, however, is not without its challenges. It comes
                            with significant resource requirements including time, money and
                            technical expertise. There is always the danger of respondent fatigue
                            and withdrawal and sometimes data recording instruments may become
                            faulty. As we shall see later, there are also ethical issues around
                            covert observation and gaining consent. One of the challenges of using
                            visual methods is noted by Van Maanen (1988), who raises the issue of
                            what he calls the realist tale. Here, the researcher's presence
                            is eliminated, the basic assumption being that what the researcher sees
                            is what any other well placed and well trained researcher would see.
                            However, as Becker (1974) asserts, this is misguided because reality can
                            be represented in many different ways. As Pink (2013) argues, when
                            people take photographs they draw on their own cultural and personal
                            resources of visual
                            experience. Hence, 'Far from being an exercise in capturing
                            reality objectively, visual research reflects and represents elements of
                            the context in which the image is made' (Kunter and Bell, 2006:
                            187).
As Prosser and Loxley (2008) state, the early days of visual sociology
                            and visual anthropology from about 1900 to the mid-1960s was untroubled
                            by what constituted realism, i.e. whether or not the images that were
                            produced were unequivocally an accurate and unbiased representation of
                            what they were purported to represent. Banks (2001), Pink (2006) and
                            others, however, have warned against naïve empiricism, arguing
                            that visual images are always constructed and that they are never a
                            means of documenting 'reality' objectively. Hence, in
                            visual methods we are concerned with two issues. Firstly, what is the
                            meaning of the content being reviewed? Secondly, in what context was the
                            image produced? So we are interested in who produced the image and for
                            what purpose. So Banks (2001) distinguishes between the
                            'internal' narratives of an image (its content) and the
                            'external narratives' the contexts in which it is
                            distributed and interpreted. Doing autobiographical research through the
                            use of video diaries might, at first sight reveal singular
                            'truths' about a workplace. But, as Pini (2005, in
                            Buckingham, 2009) warns, they may merely reproduce what the participant
                            thinks are the expectations of the researcher or the goals of the
                            research.


Categories Of Visual Organizational Research
We have so far explored some of the theoretical and empirical approaches
                            to visual data and noted some of its strengths and potential weaknesses.
                            In this section we will discuss some of the practical methods used in
                            visual methods, including photo interviewing, reflexive photography and
                            photo voice.



Visual Research Methods



Photo Interviewing
The technique of photo interviewing was originally used in
                                anthropology, for example, showing informants photographs to get
                                them to talk about specific rituals, an approach known as
                                photo-elicitation. Showing a respondent a photograph can produce a
                                situation that is similar to viewing a family photo album, helping
                                to avert the often artificial strangeness of an interview situation
                                (Schwartz, 1989). In business contexts, photo interviewing has been
                                used to study the nature of work in a US factory (Hareven and
                                Langenback, 1978), and to evoke memories of a steel town (Modell and
                                Brodsky, 1994). In the latter case, the researchers firstly used
                                photos to elicit memories of the town and then got respondents to
                                talk about their own photographs of the area (see Auto-driving,
                                next). Ray and Smith (2012) recommend that participants not only
                                select the photographs but review them and even write about why they
                                took the photos and the meanings they attach to them before
                                discussing them with the researcher. They suggest that this might
                                lead to a deeper discussion during the subsequent interview.
                                Hurworth (2003) suggests that photo interviewing can be a powerful
                                tool for the researcher since it can:
Be used at any stage of research.Provide a means of getting inside a programme or
                                        context.Bridge psychological and physical realities.Allow for the combination of visual and verbal
                                        language.Assist in building trust and rapport between the researcher
                                        and participants.Produce unpredictable data.Promote longer and more detailed interviews than verbal
                                        interviews.Be used in conjunction with other methods to create
                                        triangulation.
Warren (2009: 577) also argues that photo interviewing can often
                                produce speedier rapport between participants and researcher and the
                                greater involvement of participants, partly because both parties are
                                on a more equal footing - 'a democratizing
                                effect'.


Auto-Driving
Auto-driving was first developed in the field of marketing and
                                involves getting consumers to take photographs and then to be
                                interviewed about them. This form of photo-elicitation was termed
                                auto-driving because it puts the respondent in the 'driving
                                seat', allowing them to select what they want to photograph.
                                This technique was first used by Heisley and Levy (1991) to elicit
                                data on respondents' evening meals. The photos were used as
                                stimuli to interviews during which the complexities of family
                                dynamics emerged, allowing the researchers and respondents to
                                develop a negotiated interpretation of consumption events. Within
                                this, it allowed for increased voice of the informants and authority
                                in interpreting these events.
Bolton et al. (2001) use this approach in their research into
                                part-time child employment in the UK, giving young people disposable
                                cameras with which to take photographs of their workplace and
                                working lives. Hence, it was a visual record of their culture
                                rather than about their culture, blurring the distinction
                                between researcher and those being researched. Interviews, written
                                diaries and focus groups were also used. The photographs were
                                revealing in that they portrayed scenes not usually seen by
                                customers or researchers including stockrooms, rubbish skips and
                                toilets. As Bolton et al. (2001: 512) point out: 'The
                                pictures convey the reality of the culture of young people's
                                work in a way which the children's written and spoken words
                                do not.'


Reflexive Photography
Reflexive photography involves getting participants to use
                                photographs as symbols to illustrate the subjective meaning of the
                                things (people, physical environments, support services, etc.) in
                                their working lives (Schulze, 2007). Photographs are then explored
                                by a reflexive interview to discover their reactions to the images
                                they have captured by invoking comments, memory and discussion.
                                Given its emphasis on participants' subjective meaning,
                                reflexive photography is epistemologically closely associated with
                                symbolic interactionism. Schulze (2007) describes a study that
                                sought to explore how male university academics construct their
                                world in a period of transition. The aims of the project were
                                explained to the participants who were provided with a camera that
                                was preloaded with a 12-exposure film. The academics were asked to
                                take photographs that symobolized the most significant aspects of
                                their work. After processing the films photo-elicitation interviews
                                were conducted.


Photo Novella
These are 'picture stories' through which participants
                                are encouraged to talk about everyday routines or events (Hurworth,
                                2003). The key technique here is that participants show their
                                photographs and talk about their significance and meaning to them.
                                These techniques are particularly used in health and education studies and with
                                marginalized or disadvantaged groups to give them more
                                'voice'. As a technique it has been underutilized in
                                management and organizational studies.


Photo Voice
More recently the term 'photo voice' has been used in
                                preference to photo novella, where it is sometimes used in
                                conjunction with participatory action research where the approach is
                                used amongst groups who want to initiate change (Hurworth, 2003). It
                                is this emancipatory agenda that distinguishes photo voice from
                                participant-created visual research such as auto-driving or photo
                                novella (Vince and Warren, 2012). Here, participants use visual
                                media such as cameras to critically analyse their everyday
                                experiences and environment. The goals of photo voice are to:
Enable employees to record and reflect on their
                                        business's strengths and concerns.Promote critical dialogue and knowledge about important
                                        issues using group discussions of photos.Exchange the resulting views with organizational strategists
                                        and decision-makers.



Types Of Visual Media Research Methods
Visual methods offer us a wide variety of formats that include the
                            analysis of photographs, video data, websites and images, including
                            cartoons, drawings and even maps.

Photographs
Photographs have the potential to reveal information about contextual
                                information that is often missing from data gathering methods such
                                as taking field notes and conducting interviews (Kunter and Bell,
                                2006). However, according to Prosser (2006) a photograph does not
                                show how things look. It is an image produced by a mechanical
                                device, at a very specific moment in time and in a particular
                                context, by a person working within a set of personal parameters.
                                There is no one visual method or perspective that has ascendancy
                                over all other ways of making sense of visual images. Indeed, all
                                images are regarded as polysemic (having many possible meanings). In
                                Case Study 20.4, Bell (2012) provides a detailed example of how
                                photographic analysis can illuminate a story of organizational
                                decline.

Case Study 20.4

Critical Semiotic Analysis Of Photographs And
                                        Organizational Death
Bell (2012) uses photographs (and other sources) to explore
                                        the social construction of organizational memory about the
                                        closure of the Jaguar motor car plant in Coventry in 2004.
                                        She argues that the visual plays an important role in the
                                        formation of collective memory, including preserving and
                                        representing the
                                        past in a more immediate and emotional way than the written
                                        or spoken word. In conducting her research, Bell (2012) made
                                        a number of visits to the site with a local chaplain,
                                        someone who was a key informant, having visited the plant
                                        regularly for a number of years. Bell talked to employees
                                        and kept detailed field notes. It was clear from an early
                                        stage that death was an important symbolic construct used by
                                        employees and others to describe the significance of the
                                        closure. It also became clear that images were an important
                                        means of constructing organizational narratives about the
                                        closure.
The researcher collected data from two sources. Firstly, she
                                        used published and unpublished documents and images from the
                                        Jaguar archives consisting of 100,000 photographs and
                                        illustrations, 600 of which were taken by Jaguar's
                                        picture archivist during the last days of the plant's
                                        existence. Secondly, she focused on images that were used by
                                        employees and others to tell the story of the
                                        organization's death from the point when the closure
                                        was announced, to when cars ceased to roll off the
                                        production lines. She also used photographs that she took
                                        during her own plant visits. Other sources include national
                                        and local media coverage of the closure.
Reflexive analysis explored the subjectivities and intentions
                                        of individuals involved in producing the images and how they
                                        told their stories in different ways. The main focus,
                                        however, was on interpreting the images, with a focus on
                                        what was included, prioritized or overlooked, and the
                                        differences they constructed between people, places and
                                        things (Bell, 2012). Since many of the texts in the study
                                        were multimodal (they contained both images and text), the
                                        analysis also explored the interaction between these two
                                        elements. The dominant story is the one represented by the
                                        company's motor industry museum, containing a
                                        collection of over a hundred vehicles representing the
                                        company's history. These sites of organizational
                                        memory provide a physical location for the preservation and
                                        representation of the past, a narrative based upon
                                        established interests. With the announcement of the
                                        plant's closure, images were used to construct an
                                        alternative narrative which told a story of a
                                        'violent, tragic and sinister death and commemorated
                                        the pain, grief and suffering associated with it'
                                        (Bell, 2012: 11). In Bell (2012: 11), Figure 6 illustrates
                                        the official design for the union anti-closure campaign.
                                        Bell describes it as a transactional image involving an
                                        Actor, 'Uncle Sam' (Jaguar was US-owned), who
                                        is murdering the Jaguar wildcat. She notes that the heart
                                        has been cut out, representing ritual sacrifice. Contrary to
                                        the heroic status of Uncle Sam in American culture, here he
                                        is seen as malicious, while the Jaguar is elegant, beautiful
                                        but suffering. The text, 'Jaguar Workers Fighting for
                                        a Future', however, is more optimistic and, at the
                                        same time, less oppositional.
Bell (2012) also analyses other images, including photographs
                                        she took inside the plant. She concludes that the study
                                        demonstrates the power of images arises from their role in
                                        enabling employees and others to challenge the dominant
                                        organizational memory and construct alternative narratives
                                        of the past and its relationship to the present. The
                                        analysis of visual images shows that organizational memory
                                        is a site of on-going struggle involving the mobilization of
                                        meaning.


Source: Bell, 2012



Activity 20.4
Go to the Bell (2012) article and take a look at the image of
                                    'Uncle Sam' murdering a Jaguar wildcat. Bell
                                    suggests that contrary to the heroic status of Uncle Sam in
                                    American culture, here he is seen as malicious, while the Jaguar
                                    is elegant, beautiful but suffering. The text, 'Jaguar
                                    Workers Fighting for a Future', however, is more
                                    optimistic and, at the same time, less oppositional. Do you
                                    agree? How much more powerful is this image than expressing the
                                    same sentiments in words?




Video Data
The use of video to analyse workplace practices was first pioneered
                                by Suchman (1987) in a study in which she video-taped and analysed
                                people using photocopiers, since which there have been many studies
                                that have documented work practice. Digital video enables
                                researchers to inspect, zoom in, juxtapose, annotate and slow down
                                audio-visual recordings to enable highly detailed inspection
                                (Hindmarsh and Tutt, 2012). Above all, it helps researchers to share
                                materials from the 'data session', allowing
                                researchers to view, discuss and collaboratively analyse video
                                activities. Not surprisingly, video shares many of the approaches to
                                visual methods research with stills photography. Hence, Jewitt
                                (2012) discusses the uses of video data gathering methods as part of
                                participatory action research projects, or videography, an approach
                                that seeks to stimulate critical reflection rather than as a way of
                                gathering data.


Cartoons
Cartoons have been found to be a particularly helpful device in
                                research and have been used to explore a wide variety of themes
                                including the economy, political regimes and organizations.
                                According to Hardy and Phillips (1999), cartoons are a valid focus
                                for research because they are publicly available and relatively easy
                                to collect. Secondly, they are relatively self-contained and use
                                texts that portray concise representations of alternative discursive
                                positions and viewpoints. Hence, they may express the interests and
                                views of a particular social group by expressing a particular way of
                                looking at people and settings (Gombrich, 1978). Political cartoons
                                create imaginary worlds which are used to subvert the social order
                                by inverting certain features of current political systems. They
                                emphasize certain features they are targeting and suppress others in
                                order to juxtapose order and disorder (Morris, 1991).


Drawings
Image 20.4 A
                                    cartoon describing corporate culture© iStock.com / andrewgenn
The use of drawings in management and organizational studies
                                stretches as far back as the 1980s, with the publication of
                                Zuboff's (1988) book In the Age of the Smart Machine: the
                                    Future of Work and Power (Vince and Warren, 2012). Zuboff
                                asked clerical workers to draw pictures illustrating how they felt about their
                                jobs before and after a new computer system had been installed.
                                Creating the drawings helped the staff to articulate feelings that
                                would have been hard to draw out through traditional interviews
                                because they tap into emotions as well as the rational. Vince and
                                Broussine (1996) report on a study of 86 managers from six
                                organizations, each of whom was asked to reproduce a diagram. The
                                research process consisted of five stages, namely:
Participants were asked to address their feelings about
                                        organizational change, so were asked to 'draw a
                                        picture that expresses your feelings about change at work in
                                        your organization'.Participants were asked to write on the back of their
                                        drawings 'five to ten words or phrases which come to
                                        mind when you look at your picture'.Participants then showed their own drawings to other team
                                        members who commented on what meanings they drew from the
                                        images; these interpretations were collected by the
                                        researcher in a field diary.A few weeks after the initial exercise, inter-group
                                        reflections were organized between middle managers and the
                                        senior managers involved in the research. This meeting
                                        shared the drawings, and the reflections of the individuals
                                        and the team.The middle and senior managers then undertook to produce a
                                        synthesis of the data in order to make sense of it for
                                        themselves. The implications for the organization were also
                                        discussed.
Vince and Broussine (1996) report that the managers were surprised by
                                the strength of the emotional reactions that the drawings created,
                                particularly around poor inter-personal communications and
                                difficulties around boundary relations. Warren (2009) warns that
                                getting organizational members to participate in what seem
                                non-rational activities like drawing might release messy emotions
                                that are potentially damaging. Researchers need to be aware of this
                                and plan accordingly.

Case Study 20.5

Using Sketches To Elicit Data On An
                                        Organization'S Personality
Stiles (2011) describes a study in which he researched into
                                        ideological divisions within a university business school,
                                        getting respondents (academic staff, administrators and
                                        students) to draw pictorial images that, for them, described
                                        their organization's personality or personalities.
                                        First, he gave the following instructions:

Imagine that you're trying to communicate with
                                            someone who can't read or write. Some people say
                                            each place you work in has its own personality. I want
                                            you to imagine your organization has its own personality
                                            or personalities and do a rough sketch to explain to
                                            this person who can't read or write what that
                                            personality or personalities look like. (Stiles, 2011:
                                            15)

Respondents were then encouraged to describe and interpret
                                        their own pictures while drawing, these explanations being
                                        audio-recorded. The researcher limited himself to innocuous
                                        probes or non-verbal cues. At the data analysis stage, the
                                        researcher looked for patterns in the visual and verbal data
                                        to identify variability and consistencies in content and
                                        form, which were then grouped into themes. Stiles (2011)
                                        stresses that care is taken to reproduce the verbal
                                        discourse as near-verbatim as possible, with grammatically
                                        uncorrected conversation to allow the reader to evaluate the
                                        researcher's interpretations. After analysis,
                                        emerging themes included individual identity fragmentation,
                                        institutional fragmentation and leadership
                                        fragmentation.




Activity 20.5
Team up with a fellow researcher and each of you make a drawing
                                    of the personality of an organization you have worked in, or
                                    work in now. Take it in turns to explain the drawing to each
                                    other. How effective was the drawing in helping you develop a
                                    verbal discourse? Would the discourse have been as effective if
                                    you had not created the drawing?



Maps
The combination of micro-computers and the creation of web-based
                                geographic information systems such as Google Earth has transformed
                                the process of creating maps, so that users can query or create new
                                maps with the click of a button (McKinnon, 2011). There has thus
                                arisen a range of technical and theoretical innovations in fields as
                                broad as development studies, women's studies, planning and
                                political ecology. Traditional maps attempt to illustrate spatial
                                relationships, whereas new mapping techniques such as cartograms
                                (see Activity 20.6) rely on
                                distortion to offer a visualization of something other than spatial
                                relationships (McKinnon, 2011).

Activity 20.6
Go to www.worldmapper.org
                                    and click on Map Categories under which you will see a list of
                                    headings. Under each heading you will find additional titles of
                                    maps.You might find the following of interest, but feel free to
                                    browse this interesting site.
Transport - Aircraft PassengersManufacturers - Computers ExportsProduction - Services Women/MenWork - Female ManagersIncome - Living on Over $200Pollution - Carbon Emissions 2000




Visual Ethics In Context
We have discussed ethical issues in research in previous chapters.
                            Nowhere are ethics more important than in visual research methods, not
                            least because they may include images of people and have the potential
                            to expose sensitive areas of businesses and organizations. As we saw in
                                Chapter 4, Institutional Review
                            Boards in higher education institutions and professional associations
                            are increasingly concerned about issues of informed consent and
                            participant anonymity. However, as Clark (2012) cautions, issues such as
                            informed consent are not always straightforward or possible in visual
                            research. For example, it may not always be clear to participants as to
                            what they are consenting to. Furthermore, even in situations where
                            participants collaborate in the research (through, for example,
                            producing video diaries), they may not fully understand the intentions driving the research study
                            (Clark, 2012). Vince and Warren (2012) further warn that a key ethical
                            issue is the extent to which participants continue to consent to
                            collaborate in the research beyond the initial stage when the
                            participants' consent form has been signed. How, for example, can
                            anyone give their informed consent when they inadvertently appear in a
                            photograph taken in a retail store? We saw in Case Study 20.5 above that
                            the use of drawings can elicit strong emotional responses but that these
                            may not always be visible to the researcher. Ray and Smith (2012)
                            outline four issues relating to the ethical taking of photographs in
                            organizations: intrusiveness, informed consent, capture of logos and
                            brands, and credibility.

Intrusiveness
Given the intrusive nature of cameras, Clark (2012) suggests that the
                                anonymity of participants can be preserved in a number of ways:
Using computer software and pixelation techniques to blur
                                        faces.Not using images where individuals can be recognized.Making individuals more difficult to recognize by using
                                        pseudonyms alongside the unaltered image.Using images for research analysis but not in
                                        publications.
The intrusive nature of visual methods raises the problem of
                                reactivity - people change their behaviour because of the
                                presence of the camera. This can be mitigated if the researcher
                                spends time in the organization before data gathering so that a
                                level of trust can be built (Schembri and Boyle, 2013).


Informed Consent
We have seen in Chapter 4 on Research Ethics
                                that gaining the informed consent of participants is of paramount
                                importance. This informed consent should include the use of personal
                                images and how the image will be used in any forthcoming
                                publications (Ray and Smith, 2013). Warren (2002), for example,
                                asked each of her respondents for permission to use the photographs
                                they had taken as part of her journal articles and PhD thesis.
                                However, she notes that should the photographs be used in the
                                publication of a book or in non-academic literature, she would wish
                                (where possible) to confirm with them that this permission still
                                holds. Researchers need to always keep in mind that taking
                                photographs in organizations is frequently politically sensitive. As
                                Schembri and Boyle (2013) point out, employees may be willing to
                                share their thoughts and views, helping researchers to interpret a
                                phenomenon of interest. Willing and articulate participants are a
                                rare commodity, and researchers need to be acutely aware of the
                                political dynamics relevant to the cultural context so that these
                                participants are protected. The chance of harm to participants can
                                also be minimized if the researcher seeks to continually check and
                                validate emerging findings with relevant organizational insiders. In
                                    Figure 20.1, Vince and Warren
                                (2012) offer a helpful briefing to research participants taking
                                their own photographs.


Capture Of Logos And Brands
Researchers need to be aware that brands and logos may be
                                inadvertently picked up in photographs but that these are often
                                protected by intellectual property right laws. The use of logos is
                                usually considered allowable as long as there is no commercial gain
                                on the part of the researcher, but the ownership of any images
                                should be made explicit in any research publication (Ray and Smith,
                                2012). Researchers also need to be careful that photographs do not
                                capture iconic images that reveal the identity of an organization,
                                particularly if anonymity has been promised (Vince and Warren, 2012;
                                Warren, 2002).
Figure 20.1 An
                                    example of a briefing document provided by researcher to
                                    participants taking photographs


Credibility
Warren (2009) cautions that researchers with cameras may lack
                                credibility in the eyes of some business managers, and this might
                                cause problems when researchers are trying to gain access to an
                                organization. This is helped if the purpose of the research is
                                clearly explained. It helps considerably if the outcomes of the
                                research can be presented in advance as being of value to
                                management.

Case Study 20.6

Achieving Credibility In
                                        Photo-Elicitation
Ray and Smith (2012) report on a project that investigated
                                        how fast-growing firms manage their strategic direction and
                                        priorities on a daily basis. Marena (www.marenagroup.com) was the focus of the study, a
                                        performance compression apparel firm employing 80 people.
                                        Before entering the company, the researchers, both from the
                                        University of Tennessee, sought IRB approval, which, they
                                        report, took longer than expected. They were required to
                                        provide a detailed description of how the taking of
                                        photographs, proposed in the study, would be incorporated
                                        into final publications whilst preserving participant anonymity. The IRB
                                        demanded that participants give their consent to having
                                        themselves photographed and that faces and other identifiers
                                        such as tattoos should not be visible. Furthermore, the IRB
                                        required that written consent be obtained from company
                                        executives that they approved the taking of photographs in
                                        the organization.
In practice, the photo-elicitation approach did not work as
                                        planned. Firstly, it was difficult to lure busy workers from
                                        their work, even though all had been happy to sign the
                                        informed consent form. The result was that researchers had
                                        to interview workers as they were sewing or packing garments
                                        or at lunch. Secondly, when photographs were shown to
                                        workers some laughed while others expressed confusion and
                                        were unable to connect them to the firm's strategic
                                        priorities. The researchers realized that the problem was
                                        the relevance of the selected photographs, so the use of
                                        photographs was suspended and the researchers reverted to
                                        traditional interviewing. It was during these interviews
                                        that several workers made suggestions as to what should be
                                        photographed, including a specific moulding machine and
                                        viewing the hectic fulfilment of customer orders at the
                                        packing stage. These suggestions showed that the workers
                                        did, indeed, have a good understanding of the
                                        company's strategic priorities.


Source: Ray and Smith, 2012



Activity 20.7
Take a look at the website of the International Visual Sociology
                                    Association (IVSA) at:

http://visualsociology.org/about/ethics-and-guidelines.html

Focus particularly on the Code of Research Ethics and Guidelines
                                    which sets out the principles and ethical standards that
                                    underlie professional responsibilities doing visual research
                                    from a diversity of cultures, disciplinary orientations and
                                    methodological approaches.




Summary
Visual forms of communication are a part of contemporary culture
                                    using potent and persuasive means to convey information, evoke
                                    mood or sell products.Visual research methods in organizations can include the use of
                                    photographs, video data, cartoons and getting participants to
                                    draw images and discuss their meaning.Empirical approaches to visual content analysis use the coding
                                    of pictures and photographs, and visual elicitation where visual
                                    data are often used to elicit conversations about a subject
                                    through interviews or focus groups.Theoretical approaches include aesthetics, semiotics and
                                    rhetoric, and ethical philosophy. Theoretical approaches are
                                    useful in focusing attention on the analytical approach adopted
                                    and the type of knowledge generated.Researchers can use pre-existing visual data (for example in
                                    archives) or data can be researcher-created, participant-created
                                    or a mixture of the two using collaborative approaches.Visual research in organizations can include photo interviewing,
                                    auto-driving, reflexive photography, photo novella or photo
                                    voice. The latter is often used when organizational change is
                                    the focus.Approaches to data analysis of visual data include content
                                    analysis, thematic analysis and hybrid analysis.There are particular ethical challenges posed by visual research
                                    methods in organizations. It may be difficult to maintain
                                    anonymity of both individuals and organizations themselves.
                                    Informed consent may have to be negotiated on a regular
                                    basis.

Review Questions
How is the 'myth of transparency' (Pink,
                                        2013), the idea that visual images offer a window on the
                                        truth, a feature of visual analysis? How can it be
                                        avoided?Reflexivity is more important in visual research than in any
                                        other methods. Discuss.What compelling reasons could a researcher give to an
                                        Institutional Review Board for using participant-created
                                        rather than researcher-created data gathering methods?Why might organizations be sceptical about allowing a
                                        researcher to embark on visual data gathering?



Further Reading
Belk, R.W. (2008) Handbook of Qualitative Research Methods in
                                Marketing. Cheltenham: Edward Elgar. Even if marketing is not
                            your focus, a useful book for illustrating different approaches to
                            visual analysis, including content analysis, cultural studies and
                            semiotics.
Heath, C., Hindmarsh, J. and Luff, P. (2010) Video in Qualitative
                                Research. London: Sage. The authors show how video generates new
                            and distinctive insights for both academic and practitioner audiences. A
                            wide range of helpful case materials are used to illustrate theory,
                            drawn from the authors' own research project.
Pink, S. (2012) Advances in Visual Methodology. London: Sage. An
                            edited work by one of the most respected commentators on visual research
                            methods. Includes chapters on ethics, CCTV and the Internet.


Journal Sources
Bell, E. (2012) 'Ways of seeing death: A critical semiotic
                            analysis of organizational memorialization', Visual
                                Studies, 27: 4-17. Some of this article appeared as part
                            of Case Study 20.4. Reading the whole article you will explore the
                            analysis of a variety of visual data sources.
Dion, D. (2007) 'The contribution made by visual anthropology to
                            the study of consumption behavior', Recherche et Applications
                                en Marketing (English Edition), 22(1): 61-78. Describes
                            the main methodologies of visual anthropology and discusses their use in
                            marketing research. Identifies
                            two ways of using pictures and videos in the field of research: as a
                            recording device and as a research tool.
Garrod, B. (2009) 'Understanding the relationship between tourism
                            destination imagery and tourist photography', Journal of
                                Travel Research, 47(3): 346-358. Uses visitor-employed
                            photography to test the notion that tourist photographs both reflect and
                            inform destination images.

Don't forget to visit the companion website at https://study.sagepub.com/grayresearchbusiness for the
                                following resources which support this chapter:

















21 Secondary Data Analysis

Chapter Introduction

Chapter Outline
Advantages and disadvantages of using secondary dataSources of secondary dataQualitative data sourcesSecondary data analysisCriteria for selecting a data setA systems approach to using secondary dataSecondary data methodologiesSecondary data in mixed methodologiesResearching company websites and social media presenceEthical considerations in secondary analysis


Keywords
Secondary data analysisSecondary data sourcesPrimary dataSecondary dataCompany websitesSocial mediaEthics



Icon Key







Author Video







Chapter Objectives
After reading this chapter you will be able to:
Define what is meant by secondary data.Evaluate the advantages and disadvantages of using secondary
                                        data.Describe the sources of secondary data such as national and
                                        local government records, the records of agencies and
                                        business organizations, etc.Describe the kinds of secondary sources available such as
                                        census returns, financial records, annual reports, policy
                                        documents, newspaper articles, diaries, biographies,
                                        etc.Implement a systems approach to making use of secondary
                                        sources.Undertake secondary data analysis ethically.



There are numerous definitions of secondary data, often involving quite
                            subtle differences, suggesting that there is an overall lack of
                            consensus as to what the term actually means (Smith, 2006). According to
                            Heaton (1998), secondary analysis involves the use of existing data,
                            collected for the purpose of a prior study, in order to pursue a
                            research interest which is distinct from the original work. This may
                            comprise a new research question or an alternative perspective on the
                            original question. However, for Schutt (2007), even re-analysis of
                            one's own data for a new purpose constitutes secondary analysis.
                            Whatever the definition, secondary analysis involves the use of data
                            that have already been gathered or compiled and may involve the use of
                            new statistical approaches or theoretical frameworks (Smith, 2006).
                            Secondary sources may be analysed in conjunction with primary data
                            sources (such as surveys, interviews, observations etc.) or instead of
                            primary data. In terms of the kinds of sources, secondary data may be
                            gleaned from census returns, government records at national and local
                            level, business organizations (including financial records, annual
                            reports, minutes of board meetings, policy documents), scientific
                            papers, human resource records, newspaper articles, websites or social
                            media. Secondary sources can provide a rich insight into the history of
                            an institution, its mission, its presentation of self and how others
                            perceive it (Schneider, 2006a). Whether sources are considered primary
                            or secondary depends on the relationship of the researcher to them. So,
                            if the data were collected by the researcher, they may be considered
                            primary data. If collected by one researcher but used by another, the
                            latter considers them secondary data. However, as we shall see, if a
                            researcher returns to their own data set at a later date, but with new
                            research questions or theoretical framework, some researchers would
                            regard this as secondary data analysis. Hence, the distinction between
                            primary and secondary data analysis is not always clear cut. Finally, it
                            should not be overlooked that a literature review is itself an example
                            of secondary data analysis.



Qualitative Secondary Analysis




Top Tip 21.1
If you are undertaking an academic qualification such as a
                                    Master's degree, check as to whether you are permitted to
                                    conduct (a) a dissertation using only secondary data sources or
                                    (b) a dissertation as a review of the literature. Some
                                    institutions insist on the use of primary data only. This,
                                    however, takes a somewhat limited perspective since, as we shall
                                    see, secondary sources can offer a rich seam of data.





Advantages And Disadvantages Of Using Secondary Data
The Internet has brought professional researchers and students instant
                            access to sources and volumes of data sets that previous generations
                            could only just imagine. However, this is a two-edged sword, since
                            researchers now have to distinguish between what is valid and useful
                            data and what is garbage. Hence, in deciding whether to make use of
                            secondary sources, researchers need to weigh up the pros and the cons
                            involved. While secondary data analysis is increasingly considered a
                            legitimate and valuable way of conducting research, the potential
                            disadvantages and problems mean that this must be done with care.



What is Secondary Analysis



Advantages
Cost. The data have already been collected by another
                                        individual or research team. Even if the data set has to be
                                        purchased, its cost is likely to be less than would have
                                        been incurred if the data had been collected from
                                        scratch.Time is another factor. The researcher can get on
                                        with data analysis rather than go through the processes of
                                        research design, instrument design, data gathering, data
                                        entry and data cleaning. By being timely, studies using
                                        secondary data can be of more interest to policymakers who
                                        need up-to-date information (Hofferth, 2005).Breadth and scale of data sets available. These
                                        include national surveys and data that have been collected
                                        on a longitudinal basis. Secondary data are also available
                                        in greater quantity allowing for the use of more powerful
                                        statistical tests (Rabinovich and Cheon, 2011).Replication. If the data are publicly available, they
                                        will give scholars the opportunity to carry out replication
                                        studies to fine tune or validate initial findings (Welch,
                                        2000).Explaining change and evolution. Since data often
                                        cover long periods of time, they can be useful in generating
                                        developmental explanations about a phenomenon and the
                                        changes to it that have occurred.Detachment. Secondary analysis may allow for the
                                        viewing of a data set with more objectivity that might be
                                        difficult to achieve for the original researcher (Szabo and
                                        Strang, 1997).Professionalism. Data often come from sources
                                        developed by teams of professional researchers who have many
                                        years of experience in research design and data collection
                                        (Boslaugh, 2007).Social benefits. Secondary analysis is unobtrusive
                                        (see Chapter 19) in that
                                        additional data are not collected from individuals, hence
                                        protecting their privacy (provided that anonymity is
                                        preserved). It also means that sensitive, vulnerable or hard
                                        to reach populations do not have to be contacted again.Convenience for student researchers. It has been
                                        suggested that the use of secondary data is a particularly
                                        convenient approach for student researchers (Szabo and
                                        Strang, 1997), given that they often have to complete
                                        dissertations to very demanding timescales.


Disadvantages
Data might be incomplete, obsolete, inaccurate or
                                            biased. In the case of the latter, for example,
                                        sources may tend to offer published studies where
                                        statistical significance has been found; a way of addressing
                                        this is to also use unpublished studies.Mismatched objectives/questions. Secondary data have
                                        been collected with reference to specific research questions
                                        which may not be those of the team seeking to use them for
                                        secondary analysis. Or they may have been collected with
                                        reference to one geographical area whilst the team is
                                        interested in another. The data set may also have been
                                        developed with reference to a set of variables that do not
                                        closely match those required by the new research. For
                                        example, the data set may have collected categorical data
                                        but the research requires continuous data. There is also no
                                        opportunity for the researchers to ask supplementary
                                        questions (Szabo and Strang, 1997). This can partially be
                                        overcome at the validation stage by getting someone who
                                        closely matches the demographic profile of the original
                                        research sample to comment on the new analysis.Data quality. A potentially serious drawback is that
                                        the researcher does not know how or how well the data were
                                        collected; for example, response rates may have been low, or
                                        the data gathering instruments may have contained errors or
                                        inconsistencies that call into question the validity and
                                        reliability of the data. Thorne (1994) argues that when the
                                        researcher is not part of the original research team,
                                        secondary data sets are best utilized only by experienced
                                        researchers. However, Szabo and Strang (1997) advise that
                                        these problems can partly be overcome by the researchers
                                        establishing effective communication with the original
                                        researchers to glean information on the research
                                        context.Data mining. The availability of secondary data may
                                        mean that the researcher snoops around the data looking for
                                        themes of interest, rather than commencing with a set of
                                        research questions or hypotheses. Hofferth (2005) advises
                                        that if this is the case, while the data can be used in an
                                        exploratory fashion to develop a hypothesis, to test a
                                        hypothesis, alternative data should be sought.
                                        Alternatively, the data could be split into two separate
                                        sub-samples, the first one used for exploration and the
                                        second for hypothesis if the intention is testing.The cost of learning a new data set. It takes time to
                                        become familiar with a data set through getting to know the
                                        questions, the documentation and the structure of data
                                        files. This is why, for large-scale data sets, organizations
                                        often provide training courses to familiarize potential
                                        users with the data.



Sources Of Secondary Data
Given the wide range of subject disciplines, it would be simply
                            impractical to provide a comprehensive description of secondary data
                            sources for all of them (some discipline-specific sources are suggested
                            under Further Reading). Instead, what follows is a range of examples
                            illustrating the breadth and the utility of using secondary data:
Archives and gatewaysPersonal documentsOrganizational documentsProfessional and technical reportsPolitical and judicial recordsVisual and mass mediaAcademic sourcesOfficial statistics



Sources of Secondary Data





Business Data Archives


Note, however, that these categories are not distinct and that there will
                            often be some overlap between them.


Archives And Gateways
Archival research is described by Welch (2000: 197) as 'an
                                archaeological process in that it involves the discovery and
                                interpretation of fragmentary evidence'. Archival data can be
                                created by individuals for their own purposes (for example, diaries,
                                letters, photographs, weblogs and discussion list postings -
                                see Personal documents) or by organizations (see Organizational
                                documents). Fischer and Parmentier (2010) suggest that archival data
                                have mainly been used to help the development and understanding of
                                the research context (to supplement interviews and observational
                                data), rather than as a main source of data themselves. However,
                                archival data are fast becoming a viable source largely because an
                                ever increasing amount is now available over the Internet.
In using archival data, Welch (2000) offers a five-stage process:
Discovery. Establishing the location of an
                                        appropriate collection is not always a simple task. In the
                                        case of an organization, for example, staff turnover means
                                        that corporate memory is often lost - current
                                        employees are unaware of the existence of archival evidence.
                                        Or the company's records may not be in its own
                                        keeping - they may be in national archives for
                                        example (see: http://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/records/).Access. Even if a collection is located, there may be
                                        restricted access to it or the collection may be private.
                                        Companies, for example, have no obligation to make their
                                        records publicly available. It may be a case of trying to
                                        negotiate access.Assessment. Once accessed, it then becomes necessary
                                        to evaluate the quality of the sources.Sifting. This means sorting the documents into a
                                        meaningful or systematic order either in terms of
                                        chronological order or by theme or category.Cross-checking. This is used for verification
                                        purposes. Hence, data triangulation is adopted by
                                        cross-checking sources from more than one collection.
                                        Methodological triangulation means cross-checking sources by
                                        using an alternative strategy - for example,
                                        interviews.


Personal Documents
Personal records include letters, diaries, autobiographies,
                                biographies and oral histories. Brewer (2000) suggests a way of
                                classifying personal records across two dimensions. The first is
                                whether the records are primary (compiled by the author) or
                                secondary (containing data obtained from someone else's
                                primary document). A second dimension is contemporary (compiled as a
                                document at the time) or retrospective (produced as a document after
                                the event). Using these dimensions, we get four categories, as
                                illustrated in Figure 21.1.
As Brewer warns, making generalizations from such documents can be
                                problematic, especially if they are personal documents about one
                                individual. There may be more possibility of generalizations if the
                                documents can be shown to be representative or typical of a group.
                                The contents of personal documents should also be evaluated for
                                distortion, misrepresentation, exaggeration and omission.


Organizational Documents
Organizational documents include a large array of sources that can
                                include: board minutes, the minutes of annual general meetings,
                                corporate annual reports, correspondence files including emails,
                                staff records, financial statements, press releases, advertisements,
                                magazine articles, ratings websites, etc. A company, for example,
                                might collect data on employee headcount, employee turnover,
                                promotions and absenteeism. In terms of finance, many organizations
                                are interested in knowing the size of their borrowing and the costs
                                of financing it, turnover compared to profits and share price
                                movements. Hakim (2000) also points to health service records,
                                membership records of trade unions and voluntary associations,
                                records of births, deaths and marriages, police, court and prison
                                records. Such records tend to be updated over time. Hakim also
                                suggests that these types of records are expanding with the spread
                                of computerized management information systems. One of the distinct
                                advantages of using them is their non-reactivity (recall Chapter 19). While the
                                information may sometimes be inaccurate or incomplete, at least it
                                is not usually manipulated by the producer of the data in the
                                knowledge that the material is going to be studied. Hakim (2000)
                                suggests that administrative records can provide the basis for
                                longitudinal studies, quasi-experimental designs, international
                                comparisons and studies of organizations and their development of
                                policy.



Example of Company Documents


Figure 21.1
                                    Sources of personal recordsSource: Brewer, J.D. (2000)
                                        Ethnography. Buckingham: Open University Press.
                                    Reused by kind permission of Open University Press
On the negative side, there are at least two sources of potential
                                bias: selective deposit and selective survival. Hence, which
                                records, documents or materials are archived by an organization will
                                depend both on the policy of that organization but also on the
                                extent to which that policy is implemented by its employees. In most
                                modern organizations there exists a store of
                                'official' records, such as legal and financial
                                documents, company reports, rules and regulations, staff handbooks
                                and human resource records. But in addition, there will exist a
                                wealth of less official 'grey' materials such as
                                emails, memoranda, minutes of meetings, team plans, marketing ideas,
                                etc. that are an integral part of the knowledge base and thinking of
                                the organization. Many of these will be stored on the computer hard
                                drives of designated employees (company secretary, HR manager,
                                Director of Marketing, etc.) or shared networks (backed up to cloud
                                data storage), or are created and stored by individuals. What is
                                stored or shared (often via email attachments) and what is discarded
                                will often be a matter of individual choice, rather than
                                organizational policy. Hakim (2000) warns that researchers who use
                                organizational records
                                will often find that vital data are missing, or that they have to
                                contact employees to have the data interpreted or explained to them,
                                to avoid erroneous assumptions.
Developments in computer technology have made the chances of records
                                surviving both better and worse. We are all familiar with how the
                                ravages of time have destroyed many ancient records. Those artefacts
                                that we can see in museums have survived because of their
                                composition (stone or clay rather than paper or wood, for example),
                                or just by luck. Computers allow us to store vast amounts of data
                                efficiently - or do they? There are many ways in which
                                computers hinder the survival of data and records. First, there is
                                plentiful evidence of computer failure - systems crash and
                                backups fail. Secondly, there is the problem of incompatible
                                computer systems; if, say, an organization moves to a single
                                computer platform, what happens to the data on the discontinued
                                system? Thirdly, there is technical obsolescence. In theory,
                                computer systems are upwardly compatible, so that upgraded computers
                                can read the data on older systems. But in the case of the original
                                5-inch floppy disk, these data can only be read if they were copied
                                to a hard drive. Similarly, how many of today's videos will
                                be available for viewing in 10 years' time when all
                                transmission equipment is digital and most VCRs have broken
                                down?
Apart from the impact of computers on data survival, organizations
                                themselves are subject to mergers, takeovers and closures, all of
                                which impact on whether data survive or are discarded. For example,
                                if a company is taken over by another, which of its records would
                                the new owner want to retain? Since the aggressor company already
                                has its own legal, financial, operational and HR set up, it would
                                probably not want to retain all of the captured company's
                                records. It is not only large companies where data and documents are
                                destroyed. Many small organizations fail to survive beyond their
                                first few years of existence. In addition to the casual destruction
                                of records as organizations move or merge, there is also the risk of
                                the deliberate destruction of material where this highlights the
                                errors that organizations have made.


Top Tip 21.2
In exploring organizational archives, reliability can be
                                        improved by comparing the data with that from other sources,
                                        such as newspaper or other media reports, customers or
                                        suppliers. This does not eliminate the risk that records are
                                        biased through selectivity, but it does at least reduce
                                        it.




Professional And Technical Reports
Professional reports are used to gather information that is useful to
                                an audience in the workplace (or profession). If this report also
                                comments in some way on technology, then it is more likely to be
                                called a technical report. Professional and technical reports might
                                be commissioned by professional associations, governments or large
                                corporations and might be completed by consultants, academic
                                research institutions or government departments. Baake (2007)
                                comments how technical reports can include sub-genres such as
                                feasibility studies, which investigate a subject to analyse whether
                                it is acceptable or not; similar to this, recommendations reports
                                balance a number of different options before making a
                                recommendation. Technical reports may be large scale and national.
                                For example, should a country electrify its train system? Or they
                                may be focused on orientation. For example, what type of student
                                record system should a university install? Technical and
                                professional reports allow the researcher an insight into the
                                aspirations, values and worries of an organization or
                                government.


Political And Judicial Records
The study of voting statistics and opinion polls is now almost an
                                element of popular culture, and certainly one that is common in the
                                mass media. Political pundits and researchers are interested not only with voting
                                intentions, or the total votes cast for a particular party or
                                candidate, but also with a breakdown of votes cast by region,
                                locality, age group and social class. Voting behaviour is studied
                                because it is seen by some as a 'window' into the
                                hearts and minds of people as electors, citizens, workers and
                                consumers. This assumes, of course, that people do not vote
                                tactically, that is, they vote for the party of their genuine
                                political choice, and not for another party to keep the party they
                                dislike most out of office. Other political records include the
                                speeches and voting behaviour of members of the government
                                legislature (see On the Web 21.1). These are of interest not only to
                                political commentators but also to professional lobbyists hired as
                                consultants by businesses, interest groups and campaigning
                                organizations. Another source for gauging the views of politicians
                                is interviews or comments in the media through television programmes
                                and the press. Particularly if a source is an article written by a
                                journalist, one has to be especially conscious of the threats to
                                validity through biased reporting and hidden agendas.
One potentially useful source of data that justifies more
                                consideration is the use of evidence from legal and judicial
                                investigations. Many governments, for example, set up special
                                commissions to investigate large-scale disasters (such as rail
                                crashes) or public inquiries into the siting of a new airport. It is
                                not so much the subject focus of these inquiries that is of
                                interest, but what the debate and dialogue reveals about the roles
                                of businesses, institutions and pressure groups that attempt to
                                influence the state. Of course, one of the dangers is not knowing
                                the extent to which witnesses have been screened or specially
                                selected, and what evidence has been submitted and what
                                withheld.
Image 21.1
                                    Political records include data on voting behaviour© iStock.com / BrianAJackson

On The Web 21.1
See text and videos of UK parliamentary debates at:

http://www.parliament.uk/business/publications/hansard/





Visual And Mass Media Records
Industrial societies are now awash with visual images in the mass
                                communication media, many of which can provide a novel source of
                                data, worthy of investigation and analysis. These include
                                advertisements, newspaper photographs, textbooks, comics and
                                magazines, postcards and product packaging. If we take
                                advertisements first, consider whether groups such as ethnic
                                minorities or women are depicted in ways that are obviously
                                different. Lee (2000) refers to the work of several researchers that
                                suggests that real differences do exist. In some countries, visual
                                images of black people, for example, are under-represented in
                                advertisements, and where they appear, this is often in
                                stereotypical roles as sportspeople or musicians. When black and
                                white people appear in the same advertisement, they are rarely
                                interacting with one another (Lee, 2000).


Academic Sources
These include academic journals, doctoral theses and dissertations
                                (recall Chapter 5). Whether they offer
                                secondary data depends on the approach taken. Some articles, for
                                example, may be purely conceptual, presenting, evaluating and
                                reformulating concepts and theories; as such they may contain little
                                or no data, but they may provide a comprehensive literature review
                                of what has already been written. However, empirically based
                                articles will contain data, but their use in secondary analysis will
                                depend on the extent to which the original data is presented. Due to
                                challenges of space, empirical articles may offer summaries of the
                                data rather than the data files themselves. It will be a matter of
                                judgement as to whether these summaries or meta-analyses are a valid
                                and reliable representation of the underlying data.
Reference books are often a useful source of secondary material and
                                are diverse in terms of both titles and content. Scott (1990)
                                distinguishes between three types (although he acknowledges that
                                there are overlaps between them). Firstly, directories, that
                                typically list inhabitants of an area or members of an organization
                                or association. Secondly, almanacs, an annual calendar of dates and
                                information related to those dates. While they originally provided
                                religious and astronomical data, modern almanacs have been extended
                                to include the weather and political events. The famous
                                    Whitaker's Almanack, published since 1868,
                                includes a wealth of information on many subjects including average
                                life expectancy in every country, extensive data on every country in
                                the world, and directory listings on educational institutions,
                                clubs, and media. Thirdly, Scott (1990) describes yearbooks, which,
                                as the name implies, are an annual publication that aims to bring a
                                subject area up-to-date, presenting the same basic information each
                                year. So, for example, the Global Compact International
                                    Yearbook (2011) describes the strategic policy initiative of
                                the United Nations for businesses that are committed to aligning
                                their strategies with ten principles in the areas of human rights,
                                labour, environment and anti-corruption.

On The Web 21.2
See the Global Compact International Yearbook at:

http://www.unglobalcompact.org/news/




Official Statistics
Official statistics are collected by governments through their
                                various agencies and departments and can provide a rich source of
                                specialized data for the researcher. Another important benefit is that they are
                                often collected over long periods of time and hence offer the
                                opportunity for longitudinal studies. There may, however, be a
                                number of drawbacks to using official statistics, including:
The scale of government surveys requires large numbers of
                                        interviewers who may not receive sufficient training; this
                                        may lead to a lack of standardization and interviewer
                                        bias.Resource limitation may inhibit the timely and accurate
                                        reporting of results.
Table 21.1 provides examples of
                                the kinds of large scale statistical data sets available.





Case Study 21.1

Combining The Use Of Secondary Data Sources
                                        With Primary
In a study of young people and their job searching
                                        behaviours, Green, Shuttleworth and Lavery (2005) sought to
                                        investigate how perception of the local area shaped labour
                                        market behaviour. In particular, the study set out to gain
                                        an understanding of what relatively disadvantaged young
                                        people in Belfast know about the geography of the local
                                        labour market and the locations where they were prepared to
                                        work. Physical separation and poor transport links, for
                                        example, could be a key factor in deciding young workers
                                        against certain areas. In the case of Northern Ireland,
                                        these factors were compounded by historic religious and
                                        social differences.
In undertaking this project a range of secondary data sources
                                        were used. Firstly, information from the 1991 Census of
                                        Populations was used to calculate average travel-to-work
                                        distances across Northern Ireland to show how far workers
                                        typically travel. This was intended to provide some insights
                                        into the geographical horizons likely to shape individual
                                        labour market and travel-to-work perceptions. Next, the
                                        Census of Employment was used to gather data on employment
                                        locations and changes over time, to give data on job
                                        locations (not counting the self-employed, mobile workers
                                        and those working in agriculture). Finally, data were
                                        gathered from the Department and Employment and Learning on
                                        training provision to map the residential location of
                                        trainees by training provider to show how far they tended to
                                        travel and to ascertain whether providers drew from all
                                        parts of Belfast or only from small sub-areas.
Primary data
                                        gathering focused on seven areas of the city, chosen to
                                        represent different locations but also different community
                                        (Protestant and Catholic) backgrounds. This was important to
                                        represent the influence of both location and religious
                                        orientation on perceptions and behaviour. The desirability
                                        of prospective work locations was measured through a
                                        questionnaire and two accompanying maps. The questionnaire
                                        collected data on the respondents' educational
                                        attainment, job aspirations, access to transport,
                                        willingness to be mobile, sources of labour market
                                        information, social networks and socialization patterns.
                                        Respondents were then asked to rank areas on the maps in
                                        terms of the number of jobs they thought these areas
                                        offered. Focus groups were then organized, in which
                                        participants were asked to sketch on the maps the roads and
                                        bus routes used, the areas that they knew well and those
                                        areas they perceived as unsafe. The maps were then used to
                                        elicit discussion on the kinds of areas they would work in
                                        and those areas they feared.



Activity 21.1
As Case Study 21.1 shows, secondary analysis can be conducted
                                    alongside other methodologies such as surveys and focus groups.
                                    What are the benefits of doing this? What are the drawbacks?




Qualitative Data Sources
The potential gains (and also some of the drawbacks) of using secondary
                            analysis of qualitative data have gained increasing attention in recent
                            years (Hammersley, 2010), particularly in the USA and to a lesser extent
                            in Europe and Australia (Heaton, 2008). A major landmark in the
                            development of the archiving of qualitative data came in 1994 with the
                            setting up of Qualidata, the world's first organization for
                            promoting archiving and reusing qualitative data, established at the
                            University of Essex (see On the Web 21.3). Since then, in the UK, the
                            Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) now requires researchers to
                            deposit qualitative data sets from primary research which it has funded
                            (Heaton, 2008).



Using Secondary Data



On The Web 21.3
Take a look at the website for the Economic and Social Data Service
                                (ESDS) at:

http://www.esds.ac.uk/qualidata/




Under 'Which Service?' you can select from government,
                            international, longitudinal or Qualidata. The ESDS government site
                            offers data on health, consumption, ethnic differences and employment.
                            ESDS international provides access to international macro data sets and
                            help for users in acquiring international micro data sets. ESDS
                            longitudinal includes data sets on the British Household Panel Survey,
                            the English Longitudinal Study of Ageing, and the Longitudinal Study of Young People. The ESDS
                            Qualidata site provides access to qualitative data from across the UK.
                            In all of the sets, useful information is provided as to the authors of
                            the study and their affiliations (institution), as well as background
                            details on the dates of the fieldwork, the type of observational unit
                            (for example, individuals), the population sampled and methodology. User
                            guides to using the data are often provided, as are notes on how the
                            data were cleaned and checked for gaps or errors.

On The Web 21.4
For a comprehensive list of guides for the Economic and Social
                                Services data sets go to:

http://discover.ukdataservice.ac.uk/?sf=User%20guides




Secondary Data Analysis
The secondary analysis of qualitative data derived from previous studies
                            includes the analysis of materials such as semi-structured interviews,
                            responses to open-ended questions in questionnaires, field notes and
                            research diaries (Heaton, 2008). Heaton (2004) argues that secondary
                            data analysis involves a focus on non-naturalistic qualitative
                            data and can be distinguished from documentary analysis, which involves
                            working with naturalistic or 'found' materials such
                            as autobiographies, personal diaries and photographs. However, some
                            types of qualitative sources such as life stories and diaries can be
                            classified as either secondary or documentary sources, depending on the
                            extent to which the material was shaped by the involvement of the
                            researcher (Heaton, 2008). Heaton (2004) offers a typology of approaches
                            to qualitative secondary data analysis, which are dependent on the
                            extent to which the aims of the primary and secondary data analysis
                            converge or diverge:
Re-analysis. Data from a previous study are re-examined
                                    to confirm and validate the original findings.Supplementary analysis. A more in-depth look is taken of
                                    emergent issues or elements of the data that were not explored
                                    in the original study.Supra analysis. The aims and focus of the secondary study
                                    transcend those of the original study.Amplified analysis. Two or more existing qualitative data
                                    sets are compared and contrasted.Assorted analysis. Re-use of existing qualitative data is
                                    carried out alongside the collection and analysis of primary
                                    data for the same study.
As with quantitative data analysis, there are disadvantages or at least
                            dangers in using qualitative data. For example, there may be a potential
                            lack of fit between the data available and the objectives of the
                            secondary analysis and a lack of knowledge about the contexts through
                            which the data were collected (Thorne, 1998). As a result, the data sets
                            are either difficult to interpret or the analysis may be strewn with
                            errors. Hammersley (2010) counters this by arguing that even in
                            conducting primary research such as interviews, there is always a sense
                            in which interview data are co-constructed between researcher and
                            respondent. We should not assume, then, that the researcher knows and
                            understands everything about the interview context and that
                            interpretation is error-free. To address the problem of context Gladstone et al. (2007)
                            suggest that researchers should try to get access to original
                            audio/video tapes or transcripts as well as background information on
                            interviewers including their age, gender, race and social class. It also
                            helps to know how participants were recruited as well as information
                            about gatekeepers and issues of access.
Anything that helps the researcher feel close to 'having been
                            there' and to imagine the emotions and cognitions of participants
                            and researchers during data collection is particularly valuable (Hinds
                            et al., 1997). In qualitative research, secondary analysis creates the
                            potential to intensify the effects of researcher bias (the bias of the
                            original researcher, compounded by the bias of the secondary
                            researcher). Thorne (1998) also cautions that most qualitative data sets
                            are sufficiently small to harbour all sorts of statistically improbable
                            conditions, creating the potential for exaggerating the influence of
                            convincing peculiarities within the data. A further line of criticism is
                            epistemological. Mauthner et al. (1998) argue that because the original
                            context in which the data were produced cannot be recreated, the normal
                            criteria against which qualitative data can be evaluated cannot apply.
                            Indeed, qualitative data are the products of the reflexive relationship
                            between researcher and researched which means that secondary analysis
                            can only be legitimately applied to methodological exploration. Fielding
                            (2000), however, counters this argument saying that the problems
                            associated with the analysis of secondary data are not epistemological
                            but practical, above all having to deal with incomplete data.



Using Qualitative Data



Case Study 21.2

Reusing Qualitative Data Sets
Bishop (2007) offers a reflexive account of reusing qualitative
                                    data accessed through the ESDS Qualidata website on the topic of
                                    convenience foods and choice and particularly the phenomenon of
                                    individuated eating of processed foods. The study used two
                                    qualitative data sets, Blaxter's Mothers and
                                        Daughters (2004) and Thompson's The
                                        Edwardians (2005), to explore attitudes and practices
                                    about early forms of processed foods and about food choices at
                                    meals. Blaxter's work revealed a preference for
                                    'proper' meals as opposed to eating processed
                                    foods which were regarded as snacks. Thompson's Family
                                        Life and Work Experience before 1918, carried out
                                    between 1970 and 1973, was the first national oral history
                                    interview study to be carried out in Britain, with people who
                                    were born before 1911. Bishop (2007) discusses how
                                    Thompson's data has detailed descriptions of social
                                    practices at meals, who ate together, manners, the allocation of
                                    food and the availability of tinned food.
After preliminary data exposure and reading of transcripts and
                                    the sociology of food literature, Bishop formulated a number of
                                    research questions, including:
What range of attitudes towards convenience foods is
                                            expressed?Under what conditions is the use of convenience foods
                                            accepted?How do these attitudes vary across time, age of
                                            respondents and social class?
Data analysis revealed a number of categories such as: types of
                                    food, cooking techniques, definitions of 'good'
                                    food, plus reference to tinned food, convenience and processed
                                    foods. Bishop comments that one of the advantages of the
                                    Edwardian data set is its size and representativeness. Hence, it
                                    is possible to pose questions such as: do expressions of
                                    individual choice at meals vary with occupation, region or
                                    gender? However, she is also aware of the limitations of her
                                    data. For example, the Mothers and Daughters sample is
                                    narrow, including only women in social classes IV and V (partly
                                    or unskilled occupations) in one Scottish city. She is therefore cautious
                                    about generalizing from this base. However, given that in the UK
                                    convenience foods are associated in the public mind with
                                    laziness, low morals and lower social class, it seemed
                                    particularly germane to focus on attitudes to convenience foods
                                    expressed by members of lower socio-economic groups.
Bishop (2007) concludes by reflecting not on the differences
                                    between primary and secondary data analysis but on the
                                    similarities. For example, in undertaking her project with
                                    secondary data, defining questions, locating data and sampling
                                    proved to be very similar to if she had collected the data
                                    herself. What was most familiar was the process of working back
                                    and forth: from questions to data and back; from one data source
                                    to another; and from data to explanation and back. She describes
                                    this as a bricolage made systematic by reflexivity. Yet
                                    there were also differences. While all qualitative data are
                                    constructed within a context, reusing the data creates new
                                    dimensions across time.


Source: Adapted from Bishop, 2007



Activity 21.2
What does Bishop mean by bricolage? How does reflexivity help
                                towards creating this bricolage?



Criteria For Selecting A Data Set
Once a data set has been located, the next step is to judge whether it is
                            'fit for purpose' which means evaluating the quality of
                            the secondary material in relation to the aims of the proposed study.
                            Hofferth (2005) offers a number of suggestions:
Does the design of the study fit the research questions? We saw
                                    in the section on 'Advantages and disadvantages of using
                                    secondary data' (above) that there can often be a
                                    mismatch between the research questions of the current study and
                                    those of the original research. Furthermore, were the data
                                    collected from a sample of the population fitting to the current
                                    study?Are the sample sizes for the sub-group of interest large enough?
                                    Even if the size of the original sample is large, the number of
                                    cases of a particular category may be much smaller.Are the methods and research tools used in the study
                                    appropriate? The data may need statistical adjustments, for
                                    example using tools that take multiple levels of analysis into
                                    account.Can missing data be explained and adjusted? The researcher needs
                                    to know why the responses to a question do not have as many
                                    cases as are in the full sample. Is this due to survey
                                    instruments that make use of skip patterns that sort respondents
                                    into different groups and routes them to specific questions; or
                                    is it because the respondent did not know the answer or refused
                                    to answer the question?Does the data set have the measures needed? The data set may
                                    have information on the topic, but are the properties of the
                                    scales and indices used acceptable in the field? What
                                    information is provided on the validity and reliability of the
                                    scales used? For example, analysis relying on self-reports may
                                    not be acceptable to some research sponsors or
                                    publications.
Figure
                                21.2 offers an assessment tool for judging the value of a
                            document for secondary data analysis.
Figure 21.2
                                Criteria for evaluating the use of secondary qualitative dataSource: Adapted from Hinds et al.,
                                1997



A Systems Approach To Using Secondary Data
One of the challenges facing researchers is not so much in finding
                            secondary data, but rather in deciding how to put limits on what is
                            collected. It is thus essential to put in place coherent strategies for
                            collecting data, especially when the role of the data is central to a
                            research project (Fischer and Parmentier, 2010). Furthermore, as we have
                            seen, one of the problems faced by researchers is that mismatches often
                            arise between the secondary data that are accessed, and the kinds of
                            data required by the research questions posed within a project. One way
                            of minimizing this problem is making use of a systematic process.
                            Fischer and Parmentier (2010) suggest that the researcher starts by
                            creating an inventory of the kinds of archival material they could
                            access and then examine selections of the data in order to familiarize
                            themselves with the phenomenon of interest. Boslaugh (2007) and Smith
                            (2006) suggest some additional stages, saying that the researcher
                            should:
Define the focus of the research.Specify the population that is to be studied.Specify the variables that are to be included in the analysis,
                                    for example, age, educational attainment and unemployment rates,
                                    etc.Decide on what kind of records are appropriate to the study. For
                                    example, national longitudinal surveys, personal diaries,
                                    photographs, etc.Create a data list of the sources that are most appropriate to
                                    the research focus. At this point, since these sources are
                                    unlikely to provide a perfect fit, it will become necessary to
                                    either revise the data requirements, or the research focus to
                                    fit the sources.
Evaluate the data set to identify problems such as missing
                                        data, or out of range values. In doing this, it will be
                                        necessary to ask the following questions:
What was the original purpose for which the data were
                                            collected?What kind of data are they, and how were they collected?
                                            Who collected the data (for example, were they
                                            professional researchers?)?What kind of questions were used and how rigorous were
                                            piloting procedures?What were the sampling strategies and the response
                                            rates? What groups, if any, were excluded from the data
                                            and does this matter?When were the data collected - are they
                                            timely?What kind of cleaning or recoding procedures have been
                                            applied to the data?
If problems cannot be eradicated, look for another data
                                    set.



Using Data to Your Advantage


It is important to know whether any theoretical model lay behind the
                            research project since this will influence the kinds of data collected.
                            A further issue is knowing how the data were collected. If they were
                            collected, say, through telephone interviewing, how were respondents
                            selected; and how was adjustment made for the bias introduced because
                            not all households own a telephone? What was the response rate and how
                            were non-respondents followed up? As we saw in On the Web 21.3,
                            organizations providing secondary data offer guidance on many of these
                            issues as a matter of course.



Secondary Data Methodologies
There are a number of alternative approaches to the analysis of secondary
                            data that will depend partly on the nature of the secondary sources
                            themselves, and also on the aims of the research project. Presented next
                            are two common approaches.

Meta-Analysis
While researchers can summarize prior studies on a particular theme
                                through literature reviews, the aim of meta-analysis is to subject
                                those studies to the rigour of statistical tests. For example,
                                meta-analysis may be used to critically evaluate the results and
                                claims made by previous studies. So meta-analysis might examine
                                whether the results of previous research are meaningful (depending
                                on the size of the sample and the magnitude of values obtained) and
                                whether the findings support the conclusions reached. It is
                                essential that meta-analysis begins with well formulated research
                                questions and the operationalization of constructs (Rabinovich and
                                Cheon, 2011), allowing the researcher to hone in on relevant data
                                sets to address the research questions.



Meta-analysis



Case Study 21.3

Meta-Analysis Of The Economic Impact Of
                                        Smoking Bans In Restaurants And Bars
Implementing public smoking bans has become a common
                                        practice, with the aim of protecting the health of workers
                                        and non-smokers from second-hand smoke inhalation. However,
                                        while the health benefits of such bans are rarely
                                        challenged, the economic impact is less well known.
                                        Cornelsen, McGowan, Currie-Murphy and Normand (2014) set out
                                        to review the literature on this subject in order to conduct
                                        a meta-analysis of previous studies that assessed the
                                        economic impact of smoking bans in restaurants and bars. To
                                        capture the range of publications available, use was made of
                                        both published and unpublished sources. For the published
                                        literature, the researchers searched scientific databases
                                        such as Web of Knowledge, ABI/INFORM Global, Science Direct,
                                        Econlit, Medline, Business Source Premier, European Business
                                        ASAP and Wiley Online Library. Non-published sources
                                        included the web sites Action on Smoking and Health
                                        Scotland, both of which publish details of research
                                        articles.
A protocol was established which specified inclusion criteria
                                        that included: any full text study with English abstract
                                        that used objective (actual) data and regression methods to
                                        assess the economic impact on sales (value or volume) or
                                        employment (including wages) in bars and/or restaurants.
                                        Studies that assessed the impact on bars and restaurants
                                        using data from the wider hospitality industry were also
                                        included. Within the articles, cases were selected against a
                                        list of criteria that included:
Each geographical location for which results were
                                                presented was a case.Each business type (bar/restaurant) was a case.Each outcome variable analysed (sales, sales ratio,
                                                employment) was a case.Each type of ban (comprehensive or partial) was a
                                                case.
Data from each case were extracted independently by two
                                        researchers from the team. These data included study
                                        details, location, sample dates, data type (panel, time
                                        series, repeated cross-sections), number of observations,
                                        size of the impact with standard errors, confidence
                                        intervals or t- or p-value, type of ban,
                                        outcome variables (sales, sales ratio, employment, wages)
                                        and establishments (bar, restaurant or wider hospitality
                                        industry).
A meta-analysis was
                                        then conducted to present precise estimates of the economic
                                        impact, using random effect models, which allow for
                                        heterogeneity between cases and so allow the impact of the
                                        ban to vary case by case. Overall, 56 studies corresponded
                                        to the study selection criteria, of which 44 (79 per cent)
                                        were published and 12 (21 per cent) were from unpublished
                                        sources. Most studies (n = 41) originated in the United
                                        States, and the rest in Germany, Ireland, Norway, Australia,
                                        Canada, South Africa, Argentina and Mexico. Within the 56
                                        articles, the researchers detected 172 cases, but for the
                                        purpose of meta-analysis 43 of these had to be excluded. For
                                        example, in 25 of these cases, the changes in sale or
                                        employment were measured in monetary values or in number of
                                        people instead of percentage change.
Results found that at a 5% statistical significance level, 17
                                        per cent of the included cases (n = 21) report the impact of
                                        the ban to be increasing absolute sales, sales ratio or
                                        employment and 15 (12%) report it to be decreasing.
                                        Seventy-three per cent (n = 93) of the cases did not detect
                                        any impact from the smoking ban. The researchers conclude
                                        that overall, the impact of the smoking ban in the
                                        hospitality sector showed no substantial economic gain or
                                        loss.


Source: Adapted from Cornelsen et al., 2014



Activity 21.3
In Case Study 21.3, the meta-analysis focuses on 56 quantitative
                                    studies. What would be the challenges (apart from the volume of
                                    data) of conducting a meta-analysis of a similar number of
                                    qualitative studies?



Event Studies
Event studies, as the name implies, evaluate the impacts caused by
                                the occurrence of events on dependent constructs. For example, a
                                study could evaluate the impact of the privatization of a public
                                service, or the impact of global warming on the sustainability of
                                land use in developing countries. One of the first tasks in event
                                studies is to define the event itself and the period over which the
                                event has occurred. So, in the case of privatization, is the focus
                                going to be on one year after the event, two years, or more? Sources
                                for event studies might include the use of financial reports,
                                company data and press releases, but Rabinovich and Cheon (2011)
                                warn that these may contain important gaps, making it necessary to
                                gather data from individuals who have been directly involved in the
                                event. This is an example of combining secondary analysis with
                                primary data (see 'Secondary data in mixed
                                methodologies'). Researchers will then have to consider the
                                criteria for the measurement of the dependent constructs. For
                                example, how do we define what is meant by
                                'sustainability'? This allows researchers to identify
                                how these constructs change as a result of the events.



Event-driven Research



Case Study 21.4

Using Secondary Data To Measure Disaster
                                        Events In Tourism
Ritchie, Crotts, Zehrer and Volsky (2013) relate how tourism
                                        is one of the most economically important industries but
                                        also one of the most vulnerable to crises and disasters.
                                        Their study focuses on measuring the short-term impact of a
                                        recent incident, the BP Gulf oil spill of 2010. Most tourism
                                        research has been
                                        based on primary data analysis. However, the use of
                                        secondary data sources is on the increase and is used in
                                        this study, acquired from two sources. Each month, Smith
                                        Travel Research (STR) collects performance data from more
                                        than 43,000 hotels representing more than 5.7 million rooms
                                        in the United States, collecting the data from hotel chain
                                        headquarters and independent hotels. The STR data allow for
                                        the comparison of hotel performance during the period of the
                                        BP oil spill, compared to the same periods during the prior
                                        year. The second source was Instant Software, one of several
                                        property management systems designed for the vacation rental
                                        industry, that is, privately owned vacation rental homes and
                                        condominiums, giving access to occupancy of more than
                                        250,000 homes across the USA, 55,000 of these in the
                                        eight-region study area (i.e., coastal counties of Florida,
                                        Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, and Texas).
Data revealed that across most of the regions the hotel
                                        demand actually improved during the months of the oil spill,
                                        particularly the coastline communities of Alabama and
                                        Mississippi, probably because these areas benefited from the
                                        clean up and news media that chose hotels as their preferred
                                        accommodation. Being non-tourists, it is likely that their
                                        spending patterns would be different, not, for example,
                                        indulging in sports activities, so some businesses might
                                        still suffer from the spillage event. More troubling for the
                                        leisure market was the dramatic decrease in demand for
                                        vacation rentals. Although there was evidence in the data
                                        that disaster crews were being housed in vacation rentals,
                                        this demand was not sufficient to counter-balance the loss
                                        of demand from leisure travellers.


Source: Adapted from Ritchie et al., 2013



Activity 21.4
Considering the data sources in Case Study 21.4, what other
                                    secondary sources would be readily available for events such as
                                    this? In considering your answer, you might like to include
                                    media sources.




Secondary Data In Mixed Methodologies
It has been assumed so far that studies make use of secondary data sets
                            alone. However, secondary data analysis can be conducted before, in
                            addition to, or after other research approaches. Secondary analysis, for
                            example, can identify themes and help to generate hypotheses that are
                            then tested through a survey; conversely, empirical testing done through
                            a survey can be followed up by post hoc secondary data analysis that
                            offers additional insights into the original research questions
                            (Rabinovich and Cheon, 2011; Heaton, 1998). Secondary analysis, then, is
                            used as part of a validation process. This is particularly useful when
                            the empirical research throws up spurious or unexpected findings. In
                            using secondary data as part
                            of a mixed methodology, the kinds of opportunities offered by mixed
                            methods research designs, but also some of the challenges, are the same
                            as those discussed in detail in Chapter
                            8, Business Research Design: Mixed Methods.


Researching Company Websites And Social Media
                            Presence
In conducting research in the business world, it may not always be
                            practical to undertake empirical field research through, for example,
                            the use of surveys or interviews. There are, however, alternative
                            approaches to discovering more about businesses through company websites
                            or their social media presence via Facebook, Twitter or LinkedIn. For
                            most businesses, their website is their 'window onto the
                            world' providing details not just of their products and services,
                            but their chosen image of themselves, their cultural values and their
                            'brand'. The Internet is growing rapidly, with 88 per cent
                            of the North American, 74 per cent of the European and 40 per cent of
                            the Asian population having Internet access in 2015 (www.internetworldstats.com/stats.htm). With this, e-commerce,
                            the sales of goods and services via the Internet, is growing rapidly.
                            Having an effective website can improve a company's image and
                            allow it to directly communicate with its customers (Lee and Kozar,
                            2006). A common characteristic of most effective sites is their high
                            level of usability in terms of the effectiveness with which customers
                            can achieve their goals. As Gray, Saunders and Goregaokar (2014) also
                            point out, companies are also becoming increasingly aware that social
                            media can be used to promote their image and visibility in the
                            market.
Company websites and social media can be used in research:
As data sources for information about the company itself
                                    - its history, purpose, organizational structure, vision,
                                    products and services, etc.To explore company business strategies.To evaluate company website functionality, particularly
                                    usability and interactivity.



Top Tip: Secondary Data Analysis for
                                    Business



Using Company Websites And Social Media As Data
                                Sources
Businesses of all sizes now have their own website and many,
                                particularly larger companies, are active in social media. Indeed
                                for many businesses their websites are central elements of their
                                identity, brand and business processes (such as sales). According to
                                Basu (2015) they also aim to portray a glorified image of work,
                                which positions employees as powerful actors and employers as kind
                                benefactors. The websites of large companies are usually updated on
                                a daily basis, with news items and other information, offering
                                customers and employees a 'window' into the company.
                                Of course, what is presented is highly selective, striving to
                                portray the company in the best possible light. Table
                                    21.2 offers some examples of what, typically, websites may
                                contain, but also examples of what they may fail to discuss.





Activity 21.5
To access the websites of some of the UK's largest
                                    companies, take a look at the following website that lists the
                                    FTSE 100 companies:

http://shares.telegraph.co.uk/indices/

Having chosen a company, type its name into Google or other
                                    search engine and go to its website. As an example, let's
                                    take a look at the website for one of the world's largest
                                    mining companies, Rio Tinto, at:

http://www.riotinto.com

Notice that the site describes what the company does: 'Our
                                    business', and offers information for its investors
                                    (results and reports, share price, etc.) under
                                    'Investors'. The site provides information for
                                    prospective employees under 'Careers' and under
                                    'Media' photos, videos and media releases. To what
                                    extent does it cover the criteria listed in Table
                                        21.2 under 'What company websites may tell you
                                    and what they omit'? How independent is the material
                                    offered? What about stories or perspectives that remain
                                    untold?
In analysing the activities of a company through its website, it
                                    is therefore essential to triangulate these data with other
                                    sources that may offer alternative and even critical
                                    perspectives. Now go to the bibliographic database EBSCO and
                                    type in 'Rio Tinto'. You should find an article by
                                    Sam Walsh (2016) in the Harvard Business Review on
                                    leading the company through turbulent times, including
                                    multibillion-dollar write offs and losses in 2012. You will
                                    notice that these were not mentioned on the official
                                    website.




Exploring Company Business Strategies Through Web
                                Presence
Another use of website research is exploring company websites for
                                evidence of various businesses' strategies embedded in their
                                functionality or content. Log in to a bibliographic database such as
                                EBSCO and key in the words 'company website and
                                strategy'. This will list research studies on a wide spectrum
                                of company strategy themes including corporate identity, reputation
                                management, corporate responsibility, and corporate diversity. Some
                                studies deal with the effectiveness of company websites as retail
                                platforms.



Analysing Company Web Presence
                                        Checklist


Shin and Huh (2009), for example, describe a study in which they
                                explore to what extent multinational corporates in the USA and Korea
                                target markets through using a standardized (global) or locally
                                based content. The sample comprises 52 top USA- and 52 top
                                Korean-based companies with content analysis used to explore: (1)
                                overall colour scheme; (2) background image; (3) graphics used in
                                the homepage; (4) content structure; and (5) information type.
                                Results suggest that corporates in both countries tend to maintain
                                their national and international websites in similar ways,
                                particularly in terms of colour and graphics.
As Basu (2015) suggests, many large companies are using their
                                websites and social media to grow their corporate social
                                responsibility (CSR) efforts and image. Taken Smith and Alexander
                                (2013), for example, undertook a study to identify the common
                                CSR-related headings on the websites of Fortune 500
                                companies, analysing the websites according to whether they are
                                involved in manufacturing, retailing or service industries. The
                                researchers found that 98 per cent of Fortune 500 companies
                                made reference to CSR on their websites, most using either the terms
                                'Community' or 'Environment'.
                                    t-tests indicated a statistically significant
                                difference between manufacturers and retailers (t = 3.3, p
                                < .01) and between manufacturers and service firms (t
                                = 3.1, p < .01). There was no significant difference between
                                retailers and service firms.
Other studies examine how companies make use of social media to
                                influence consumer buying behaviour. De Saulles (2015), for example,
                                explores the efforts of the largest 50 UK retail groups in the UK
                                and their use of Twitter to promote their retail brands. Individual
                                retail brands were identified by visiting the websites of the parent
                                companies. The Twitter accounts for the brands were then found by
                                looking for links on the home pages and key landing pages of the
                                brand websites. If no link was found on any of those pages, the
                                brand was excluded from the study. De Saulles then made use of
                                marketing analysts Moz and their Followerwonk website which provides
                                data related to Twitter accounts, number of tweets and the age of
                                the account. But merely having a lot of followers does not mean
                                tweets are being retweeted. Moz address this through the metric
                                'Social Authority' which measures the extent to which
                                a tweet is retweeted by other users. Results showed a low
                                correlation between age of account and social authority scores,
                                suggesting that some new entrants were effective in posting tweets
                                that engage other users of Twitter.
Another feature of business website and social media presence is
                                their use in hiring practices. Dutta (2014), for example, discusses
                                how organizations are making use of social media, including
                                Facebook, LinkedIn and Twitter, as a way of building their brand and
                                attracting new applicants. Unlike traditional recruitment processes
                                which are relatively short-term, the use of social media involves
                                continuous engagement often involving a dynamic career microsite
                                reflecting active open employment opportunities. Most job seekers
                                have at least one social media profile which companies can explore
                                (Melanthiou, Pavlou and Constantinou, 2015). The following Case
                                Study provides an example of how a team of researchers conducted a
                                study of how social media is used in recruitment.


Case Study 21.5

Researching Company Use Of Social Media In
                                        Recruitment
Melanthiou et al. (2015) set out to:
Identify if companies from specific market sectors
                                                use social network sites more than other companies
                                                use them, and if company size affects this
                                                decision.Investigate whether companies use social network
                                                sites during recruitment to attract applicants and
                                                if not, why not.Identify if recruiters use social network sites to
                                                conduct background checks - screening of
                                                applicants, in what way, and how much this affects
                                                their hiring decision.Measure companies' awareness of the legal
                                                implications associated with social network
                                                screening and how ethical they believe their actions
                                                to be.
To address these research objectives, the researchers
                                        randomly selected 1,060 companies from the Cyprus Chambers
                                        of Commerce and Industry Listing, and contacted the
                                        owners/directors/managers of these companies with an online
                                        survey which was 'live' for 40 days.
                                        Respondents had to be actively involved in the recruitment
                                        process. A total of 117 usable questionnaires were returned.
                                        The study found that 86 (73.5%) maintain social network
                                        accounts with the most popular answers being Facebook with
                                        65%, LinkedIn with 40.2%, and Twitter with 20.1%. A number
                                        of companies (10.3%) reported their involvement in other
                                        social network sites like Instagram, Pinterest, and
                                        Google+. Small companies (1-30 employees) with
                                        technological backgrounds practise e-recruitment
                                        significantly more than do those from other market sectors.
                                        Although Facebook had the lead in terms of social network
                                        activity, 50% of the participants chose LinkedIn as their
                                        first choice of social media for attracting applicants,
                                        followed by Facebook with 37%. This suggests that LinkedIn
                                        is a more corporate social network than Facebook and that
                                        the companies follow where potential employees are
                                        located.



Activity 21.6
Examining the presentation of data in Case Study 21.5, we can
                                    notice that they are presented as descriptive statistics. Even
                                    though the sample is relatively small, could inferential
                                    statistics have been applied? If so, what test could have been
                                    chosen?



Evaluating The Interactivity Of The Company
                                Website
Another focus of research is evaluating the functionality of company
                                websites, particularly in terms of their ease of use and perceived
                                usefulness. Many companies are using the Web and social media to
                                promote, maintain and enhance relationships (and interactions) with
                                a wide range of stakeholders including job seekers, shareholders,
                                employees and customers (Guillory and Sundar, 2014). When users
                                first access a company's website their initial impressions of
                                the site, and subsequent intentions about the site and the company,
                                will in part be a function of how easy it is for them to learn how
                                to navigate the website, and the speed with which they can find
                                information that they want or need (Eveleth, Baker-Eveleth, and
                                Stone, 2015). These features are largely captured in the construct
                                'usability' which is often associated with user
                                satisfaction and trust. The level of interactivity, including the
                                facility for online discussions with other users, affects attitudes
                                towards an organization's website (Park and Lee, 2007). Users
                                form the most favourable attitudes towards websites which contain
                                interactive modalities such as text, animation, audio and which
                                offer users a wide availability of choice (Coyle and Thorson, 2001).
                                Interactivity may even stretch as far as customization, where on
                                e-commerce websites, for example, customers are able to use search
                                functions, personal account information and even the ability to
                                interact with employees (Guillory and Sundar, 2014). A checklist of
                                typical usability functions is presented at Table
                                    21.3.



Company Website Interactivity





Source: Adapted from Vaucher et
                                    al., 2013 and Eveleth et al., 2014. Reproduced by kind
                                    permission of John Wiley and Sons

As indicated above, one function of business websites is the
                                presentation of the history and growth of the company, usually
                                presented as an uncritical narrative of competence through
                                enterprise, organization, management and coordination. As Gatti
                                (2011: 485) states:

the historic narration offers a text form that conflates both the
                                    tangible facts of the company's story and the intangible
                                    historical contents, meanings, and significance in a persuasive
                                    unit, one aim of which is to convince the public of the
                                    organization's efficiency, acquired knowledge, and
                                    competence.

Hence, corporate competence
                                is constructed through the use of language and discourse. Similarly
                                Tang, Gallagher and Bie (2015) describe how notions of corporate
                                social responsibility are constructed through a constant dialogue
                                and negotiation between corporations and their various stakeholders.
                                Salvi, Turnbull and Pontesilli (2007) suggest that the language in
                                corporate websites is used to provide facts and information about
                                events and situations in the real world, as well as to persuade and
                                influence. Language is used to provide information on the position,
                                mission and strategies of the company as well as to highlight the
                                quality of products and the manufacturing processes. Here the use of
                                over-technical words can be counter-productive. Case Study 21.6
                                provides an example of how researchers have explored the language of
                                websites to measure their interactivity.

Case Study 21.6

The Use Of Language In Corporate Websites
Language is an important feature of interactivity.
                                        Facchinetti (2013) comments that corporate websites exploit
                                        different lexico-grammatical and rhetorical features, all of
                                        which are used to strengthen interaction with potential
                                        customers. These include the use of:
Possessives your(s) and our(s) and
                                                personal pronouns we, you and
                                                  us.Positively connoted adjectives: used to present and
                                                describe the company's products/services and
                                                aimed at intensifying its value and
                                                reliability.Questions and imperatives: used to ensure a sense of
                                                interpersonal communication by addressing users
                                                directly.
Facchinetti sought to compare the websites of British and
                                        Italian small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs),
                                        communicating in English, with reference to their degree of
                                        interactivity with their customers. She found that British
                                        SMEs, compared to Italian SMEs, are more inclined to engage
                                        in dialogue with their customers. For example, British SMEs
                                        use social media including Facebook and Twitter as well as
                                        blogs to actively engage users and reinforce their loyalty.
                                        Compared to Italian SMEs, British SMEs also give high
                                        prominence to customer comments.
This higher level of interactivity is confirmed in Table 20.4
                                        by quantitative analysis of linguistic features. Hence, with
                                        reference to the possessives (I, you,
                                            we, they) and personal pronouns
                                        (my, your, our, their) the most
                                        prominent feature concerns we, you, us,
                                            our(s) and your(s), which signals
                                        interactivity. In contrast, the smaller frequencies
                                            they, them, their(s), shows
                                        distance. Facchinetti argues that in the British websites,
                                        the possessives/personal pronouns referring to the company
                                            (we, us, our(s)) exhibit the same
                                        frequency of occurrence as that of second person
                                        (you, your(s)), suggesting that
                                        'equality' is given by these firms to
                                        themselves as producers/ suppliers and to their customers.
                                        In contrast, in the Italian websites, the focus on the
                                        customer is three times lower than that given to the firm
                                        (32 vs. 103).
Facchinetti also counted the use of positive adjectives to
                                        describe a company's goods and/or services
                                            (great, high, good, most,
                                            best) to indicate superiority to competitors and
                                        the number of questions posed on the website by customers
                                        (higher numbers indicating interactivity). Italian firms
                                        made more claims for superiority, while British firms
                                        fielded more customer questions.







Activity 21.7
Overall, based on the data presented, which SMEs demonstrate
                                    greater interactivity through their websites, British or
                                    Italian? Why does interactivity matter?




Ethical Considerations In Secondary Analysis
At first sight it may appear that ethical considerations are irrelevant
                            or minimal in secondary analysis because there are no face-to-face
                            interviews or observations of human behaviour taking place. However, as
                            Gladstone et al. (2007) point out, the issues of informed consent and
                            confidentiality are not eliminated - they are just highlighted in
                            different ways. Thorne (1998) asks whether posing new questions of
                            previously collected data violates the consent obtained when the
                            original study was conducted, perhaps one reason why Hinds et al. (1997)
                            suggest that researchers should seek permission from the primary study
                            participants for the secondary analysis of their data. Thorne (1998)
                            also advises that secondary analysts should familiarize themselves with
                            the actual and potential privacy needs of individuals and populations in
                            the databases they employ. As Gladstone et al. (2007) advise,
                            researchers need to be able to defend their judgement as to the scope of
                            the original consent and the conditions under which secondary analysis
                            is appropriate. Institutional Review Boards now often make provision for
                            participants to give their consent to the future use of data for other
                            purposes.
Of course, when it comes to the analysis of social media data additional
                            ethical challenges arise. As Boyd and Crawford (2012) comment, just
                            because data are accessible, does not make such access ethical. They
                            remind us of the incident in 2006 when a Harvard-based research group
                            gathered data on the profiles of 1,700 college-based Facebook users to
                            explore how their interests and friendships shifted over time. The
                            researchers took steps to remove the identities of students from the
                            data set and required other researchers to agree to certain terms and
                            conditions before they could use the data, to protect student privacy.
                            However, despite these steps, it didn't take some researchers
                            long to work out that the source of the data was Harvard College. This was because the
                            codebook that was released with the data indicated that the source was a
                            private, co-educational institution in New England, with 1,640 students
                            enrolled in 2009. An online college database allowed 2,000 potential
                            colleges to be narrowed down to just seven, one of which was Harvard. As
                            Zimmer (2010) notes, the act of collecting Facebook profile information,
                            aggregating it, and then releasing it for others to download, invites a
                            multitude of secondary uses of the data not authorized by the students.
                            As Boyd and Crawford (2012) ask, what if someone's
                            'public' blog post is taken out of context and analysed in
                            a way that the author never imagined? Who is responsible for ensuring
                            that individuals and online communities are not analysed without their
                            consent? What does informed consent look like? Clearly IRBs have a lot
                            to think about, but the advice of the Association of Internet
                            Researchers (AoIR) may help. The AoIR's key guiding principles
                            comprise:
The greater the vulnerability of the
                                    community/author/participant, the greater the obligation of the
                                    researcher to protect the community/author/participant.Because 'harm' is defined contextually, ethical
                                    principles are more likely to be understood inductively rather
                                    than applied universally. That is, rather than one-size-fits-all
                                    pronouncements, ethical decision-making is best approached
                                    through the application of practical judgement attentive to the
                                    specific context (what Aristotle identified as phronesis).Because all digital information at some point involves
                                    individual persons, consideration of principles related to
                                    research on human subjects may be necessary even if it is not
                                    immediately apparent how and where persons are involved in the
                                    research data.When making ethical decisions, researchers must balance the
                                    rights of subjects (as authors, as research participants, as
                                    people) with the social benefits of research and
                                    researchers' rights to conduct research. In different
                                    contexts the rights of subjects may outweigh the benefits of
                                    research.Ethical issues may arise and need to be addressed during all
                                    steps of the research process, from planning, research conduct,
                                    publication, and dissemination.Ethical decision-making is a deliberative process, and
                                    researchers should consult as many people and resources as
                                    possible in this process, including fellow researchers, people
                                    participating in or familiar with contexts/sites being studied,
                                    research review boards, ethics guidelines, published scholarship
                                    (within one's discipline but also in other disciplines),
                                    and, where applicable, legal precedent.
These helpful principles might equally be applied to the use of all
                            secondary data.

Activity 21.8
For more details on the ethical guidelines offered by the AoIR, go
                                to: http://aoir.org/reports/ethics2.pdf
Take a look particularly at the 'Internet specific ethical
                                questions'.



Summary
Secondary analysis involves the use of existing data, collected
                                    for the purpose of a prior study, in order to pursue a research
                                    interest which is distinct from the original work.Secondary sources include census returns, government records at
                                    national or local level (such as finance, welfare, employment),
                                    and the records of agencies and business organizations.The advantages of using secondary data include costs and time
                                    saved in not having to undertake primary research, the breadth
                                    and depth of (quantitative) data sets available, and the fact
                                    that vulnerable or hard to reach populations do not have to be
                                    re-interviewed.The disadvantages include the fact that the data might be
                                    incomplete, inaccurate or obsolete and there may be a mismatch
                                    between the data and the new research questions.Large scale sources of quantitative data sets include: the
                                    Annual Business Survey, the British Household Panel Survey, the
                                    British Social Attitudes Survey.Qualitative data sets are now available at the Qualidata
                                    website.The criteria for selecting a secondary data set include
                                    questions such as: Does the design of the study fit the research
                                    questions? Are the sample sizes for the sub-group of interest
                                    large enough? Are the methods and research tools used in the
                                    study appropriate? Can missing data be explained and
                                    adjusted?Ethical considerations for using secondary data include
                                    researchers being able to defend their judgement as to the scope
                                    of the original consent and the conditions under which secondary
                                    analysis is appropriate. This issue is more complex when it
                                    comes to the reuse of social media content.

Review Questions
How useful is it to distinguish between primary and
                                        secondary data?What are the advantages and drawbacks of using secondary
                                        sources?What advantage does data gathering using secondary sources
                                        have over conducting interviews?How can the use of secondary data sources be mixed with
                                        other research methodologies? What are the benefits of the
                                        mixed approach?In using secondary data sources, researchers are one step
                                        away from the primary researcher's field. What steps
                                        can researchers take to breach this gap?In researching the narratives presented in company websites,
                                        why is it important to use these with other sources?



Further Reading
Hakim, C. (2000) Research Design, 2nd edn. London: Unwin Hyman.
                            Although the book is mainly focused on the general principles of
                            research design, Chapter 2 provides some help on
                            meta-analysis and secondary analysis.
Trzesniewski, K.H., Donnellan, M.B. and Lucas, R.E. (2010) Secondary
                                Data Analysis: An Introduction for Psychologists. American
                            Psychological Association. As the title implies, this book is mainly for
                            psychologists and covers different fields of study including adult and
                            adolescent development, cross-cultural psychology and political beliefs
                            and actions. The book encourages a critical perspective on making use of
                            secondary data.


Journal Resources
Kuronen, T. and Virtaharju, J. (2014) 'The Fishing President:
                            Ritual in constructing leadership mythology', Leadership,
                            11(2): 186-212. The study explores the private fishing ritual of
                            the Cold War era President of Finland, Urho Kekkonen, and his political
                            elite 'tribe' using visual discourse analysis. The research shows how the
                            emergent leadership mythology was communicated both within and outside
                            this tribe. The qualitative data set consists of one primary and two
                            secondary sources, being correspondence exchanges (text, photographs and
                            some material objects) and media material, mostly consisting of press
                            photographs and their accompanying texts from local newspapers and
                            magazines.
Paulson, E.L. and O'Guinn, T.C. (2012) 'Working-class cast:
                            Images of the working class in advertising, 1950-2010',
                                The Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social
                                Science, 644(1): 50-69. Content analysis is used to
                            analyse representations of the working class from a random sample of
                            advertisements from the period 1950 to 2010. Qualitative results are
                            then compared to secondary data sources including the General Social
                            Survey and public opinion polls. The study finds that increasingly
                            nostalgic images contradict the actual disappearance of blue-collar
                            occupations.
Rabinovich, E. and Cheon, S.-H. (2011) 'Expanding horizons and
                            deepening understanding via the use of secondary data sources',
                                Journal of Business Logistics, 32(4): 303-316.
                            Outlines the use of secondary data analysis in addressing challenges in
                            logistics and supply chain research. A review of the logistics and
                            supply chain literature identifies six important methodologies that can
                            be useful for secondary data generation and analysis.

Don't forget to visit the companion website at https://study.sagepub.com/grayresearchbusiness for the
                                following resources which support this chapter:


















Part D Analysis And Report Writing



22 Getting Started with SPSS


589


Getting around the SPSS
                                        interface
590

Naming and defining
                                        variables
594

Entering and modifying data
599

Navigating the Windows
                                        interfaces
599

Handling missing data
601

Recoding or transforming
                                        data
602

Exporting into MS Word
603

Getting help
603



23 Analysing and Presenting Quantitative Data


607


Categorizing data
608

Data entry, layout and
                                        quality
612

Presenting data using
                                        descriptive statistics
615

Analysing data using
                                        descriptive statistics
620

The process of hypothesis
                                        testing: inferential statistics
623

Statistical analysis: comparing
                                        variables
627

Statistical analysis:
                                        associations between variables
635



24 Getting Started with NVivo


655


About NVivo
656

Using this chapter
657

Getting around the NVivo
                                        workspace
657

Linking to internal and
                                        external sources
661

Exploring nodes and coding
664

Exploring case classifications
                                        and attributes
667

Exploring data
670

Getting started on a
                                        project
674

Developing ideas: Journals,
                                        memos, annotations and links
678

Analysing visual data
679



25 Analysing and Presenting Qualitative Data


687


Elements of qualitative data
                                        analysis
689

Analysing qualitative data
695

Other approaches to qualitative
                                        analysis
708

Quality in qualitative
                                        analysis
710

Software for qualitative data
                                        analysis
712



26 Writing up the Research in a Business Report


717


The report writing process
719

The report structure
723

Ethical and legal
                                        considerations
734

Developing a writing style and
                                        tone
736

Undertaking a review
                                        process
739



27 Preparing for Business Presentations and for Vivas


745


Preparing the presentation
746

Structuring the presentation:
                                        beginning, middle and end
748

Structuring the presentation:
                                        the density of ideas
750

Creating interest in
                                        presentations
751

Delivering the presentation
752

Team presentations
754

Preparing for and surviving
                                        vivas
757

Innovative assessment
                                        methods
763















22 Getting Started With Spss

Chapter Introduction

Chapter Outline
Getting around the SPSS interfaceNaming and defining variablesEntering and modifying dataNavigating the Windows interfacesHandling missing dataRecoding or transforming dataExporting into MS WordGetting help


Keywords
SPSSQuantitative dataDefining variablesData entryData analysisRecoding data



Icon Key







Author Video







Chapter Objectives
After reading this chapter you will be able to:
Use the main functions of the SPSS interface.Name and define variables.Input data into SPSS.Handle missing values.Recode and transform data.Use the Analyze function.Use SPSS in a confident manner.



IBM® SPSS® statistics software (SPSS) (SPSS Inc. was
                            acquired by IBM in October, 2009), was first launched in 1968 and today
                            is one of the most widely used and respected computer programs for the
                            analysis of quantitative data. It is able to deliver the analysis and
                            presentation of:
Descriptive statistics: frequencies and cross-tabulation.Bivariate statistics: means, t-tests, ANOVA, correlation
                                    and non-parametric tests.Prediction of numerical outcomes: linear regression.Prediction for identify groups: factor analysis, cluster
                                    analysis.
However, for inexperienced researchers, the thought of having to make use
                            of a statistical program like SPSS often induces feelings of fear,
                            stress and dread. This, though, should not be the case, as this chapter
                            sets out to prove. Here we will introduce you to some of the main
                            features of SPSS such as how to input data, how to use menus and tools
                            to conduct data analysis, how to create tables and charts, and how to
                            export output into external documents such as Word. It will not get into
                            details about what kind of statistical tests to use as this is the
                            subject of Chapter 23, Analysing and
                            Presenting Quantitative Data.



Top Tip: Getting Started with SPSS




Getting Around The Spss Interface
Before we take a look at entering data into SPSS we are going to take a
                            tour around some of the most useful features of the SPSS interface.



SPSS User Interface



Activity 22.1
Launch SPSS either from your computer desktop (if the SPSS icon
                                appears there) or by going to Start and locating SPSS from
                                the menu. Once launched, you will see the screen as illustrated in
                                    Figure 22.1 (or a similar
                                interface, depending on what version of SPSS you are running).
Figure
                                    22.1 illustrates one of the main ways of viewing data in
                                SPSS, namely, Data View which displays your actual data and
                                any new variables you choose to create. Another view of data is
                                called Variable View where the variables are listed down the
                                side of the screen with their characteristics (name, type, etc.)
                                along the top (see Figure 22.5). Notice in Figure 22.1 that the interface
                                contains both rows and columns for data. In Data View, the columns
                                represent the different variables in your study, while the rows
                                represent each case. So, for example, if your questionnaire contains
                                the variables gender, age and hatred of spiders, then there will be
                                a column for each of these variables. Row 1 would be for all the
                                responses from your first case (for example your first
                                questionnaire), and Row 2 for the responses from the next case
                                (questionnaire), and so on.



Figure 22.1 The
                                SPSS interface - Data Editor window in Data ViewReprint Courtesy of International Business
                                Machines Corporation, © International Business Machines
                                Corporation
Like any Windows-based program, SPSS offers a range of dropdown menus
                            (see Menu bar in Figure 22.1) and shortcut items
                            (see Toolbar). On the Menu bar you will notice dropdown menus such as
                                File, Edit, View and Analyze. We will
                            focus here on these four menus since they deal with some of
                            SPSS's basic but essential features.

Activity 22.2
On the menu bar click on File. You should see a dropdown menu
                                as in Figure 22.2. This shows that
                                you can start a new file, open an existing file that you created or
                                imported earlier, Save a file you have created, Print
                                the window or Exit the program.



Figure 22.2 The
                                File menu in Data ViewReprint Courtesy of International Business
                                Machines Corporation, © International Business Machines
                                Corporation

Activity 22.3
On the menu bar click on Edit. You should see a dropdown menu
                                as in Figure 22.3. The Edit menu
                                allows you to insert a new variable (vertical columns), or to insert
                                a new case (horizontal rows). So, say last week you set up an SPSS
                                file containing responses to a survey you are conducting. Today a
                                new set of questionnaires have just been returned. Each
                                questionnaire represents a new case that you will want to add to
                                your data set, so you will want to use the Insert Cases
                                function.



Figure 22.3 The
                                Edit menu in Data ViewReprint Courtesy of International Business
                                Machines Corporation, © International Business Machines
                                Corporation


On The Web 22.1
For a useful introduction to the SPSS interface and for ways of
                                inputting or importing data into SPSS, go to:

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=msI7xf0tInE

(The URL for this video link can be accessed via the companion
                                website: https://study.sagepub.com/grayresearchbusiness.)


Activity 22.4
On the menu bar click on View. You should see a dropdown menu
                                as in Figure 22.4. The View menu
                                allows you to customize the Toolbar, change the look of the fonts,
                                and remove or put back grid lines to the page. The Variables
                                option allows you to switch to Variable View and back again
                                to Data View. You can also do this by toggling between the
                                Data View and Variable View buttons at the bottom left of the
                                screen.



Figure 22.4 The
                                View menu in Data ViewReprint Courtesy of International Business
                                Machines Corporation, © International Business Machines
                                Corporation

Activity 22.5
On the menu bar click on Analyze. You should see a dropdown
                                menu as in Figure 22.5. The Analyze menu
                                is the place where all statistical analysis is conducted. Some of
                                the most commonly used functions here include Descriptive Statistics
                                (which includes Frequencies and Cross tabulations - a
                                crosstab being a summary table), Regression analysis and
                                Non-parametric statistics (including t-tests). There will be
                                explanations and a chance to use many of these statistical tools in
                                    Chapter 23.



Data Analysis with SPSS




Activity 22.6
On the menu bar click on Graphs. You should see a dropdown
                                menu as in Figure 22.6. As its name
                                implies, the Graphs menu allows you to create a variety of graphs
                                and charts from your data, including histograms, bar charts and pie
                                charts. Again, you will have an opportunity to use many of these
                                graphing functions in Chapter 23.



Figure 22.5 The
                                Analyze menu in Data ViewReprint Courtesy of International Business
                                Machines Corporation, © International Business Machines
                                Corporation
Figure 22.6 The
                                Graphs menu in Data ViewReprint Courtesy of International Business
                                Machines Corporation, © International Business Machines
                                Corporation


Naming And Defining Variables
Having gained a 'feel' for the SPSS interface, you are now
                            ready to enter data. However, before you do this you need to set up
                            names for your variables and tell SPSS how you want the variables coded.
                            This process of defining variables is done in the Data Editor
                            window which, as we saw
                            earlier, consists of two areas: Data View and Variable
                                View (see Figure 22.1 above). Each column in
                            the Data View is given the default label of var. You will be
                            changing this when you name your own study's variables.

Top Tip 22.1
Pallant (2013) rightly suggests that researchers should create a
                                codebook, the purpose of which is to provide an outline of the
                                instructions needed to convert the data gathered as part of the
                                study into a format for input into SPSS. Essentially the two main
                                stages comprise:
Defining and labelling each of the variablesAssigning a number for each possible response



Codebook


For examples of defined variables and assigned numbers see Table 22.1. To define your
                                variables, click on the Variable View tab. Note that in Variable
                                View the variables are listed down the left-hand column (gender, age
                                etc.), with the characteristics of each variable (Type, Width,
                                Decimal places, etc.) along the top of the screen - see Figure 22.7. Taking each of the
                                variables in Figure 22.7, we will now see
                                how each can be modified and how some key variables need to be
                                defined in more detail.






Figure 22.7 The
                                Variable View windowReprint Courtesy of International Business
                                Machines Corporation, © International Business Machines
                                Corporation


Name
There are specific rules for naming variables. Hence, each
                                variable:
Must be unique (so you could have Attitude 1 and Attitude 2,
                                        but not two data sets called Attitude).Must begin with a letter and not a number.Cannot include symbols or punctuation (?, ",
                                        &, %).Cannot include words that are used in commands (all, eq, ne,
                                        le, to, It, by, or, gt, and, with, ge).Cannot contain blank spaces.Must not end with a full stop.Cannot exceed 64 characters.

Activity 22.7
Under Name, type in an abbreviated variable name, using
                                    the variables for your study devised in your codebook. So, for
                                    example, your study might require the variables
                                    'gender', 'age' or 'highest
                                    level of education'. Table
                                        22.1 offers some examples of typical variables often
                                    used in research studies. The Table gives a full variable name,
                                    an abbreviated version of the name that you type into SPSS, plus
                                    some coding instructions, and is typical of the kind of
                                    information described in a codebook.



Type
SPSS insists on what are termed strongly typed variables, that
                                is, variables that are defined according to the type of data they
                                will contain. Because of this, it is important to ensure that all
                                the data in any field are consistent. Variable types include:
Numeric. A variable whose values are numbers. The
                                        name Numeric appears automatically in the Type column,
                                        largely because this default option is what is required in
                                        most cases. Binary variables are a special subset of
                                        numeric variables and include yes/no, male/female, and 0/1.
                                        It is clearly not possible to perform a calculation on
                                        yes/no or male/female; but this does become possible if they
                                        are recoded into numeric values such as assigning a value of
                                        1 to female and 0 to male. It is then quite simple to
                                        calculate what proportion of the sample are male and
                                        female.String. Value of a variable that is not numeric.
                                        String is also used for numbers that cannot be used as part
                                        of a calculation - for example, telephone numbers or
                                        postcodes. String numbers, then, need to be treated
                                        differently to numbers. You could use these as numbers and
                                        calculate them but the results would be meaningless!Date. A numeric variable the values of which are
                                        displayed in one of several calendar-date or
                                        clock-time formats.



Defining Variable Types


To change from Numeric to one of the other options simply
                                click in the cell and a box will appear from which you can select
                                other options - see the Variable Type box in Figure 22.8.


Width
The default value for Width is 8 which is sufficient for most
                                situations. It only becomes necessary to expand this value if your
                                variable has very large values or if you have selected a
                                    String variable that contains more than 8 letters. Figure 22.8 shows where you can
                                change to String in the Variable Type box and where
                                you can modify the Width.
Figure 22.8
                                    Changing the variable TypeReprint Courtesy of International
                                    Business Machines Corporation, © International Business
                                    Machines Corporation


Decimals
The default value for Decimals is 2, that is, numbers are
                                presented to 2 decimal places. If you want to change this, you will
                                need to go into Options. Click on Edit/Options/Data. In the
                                    Data tab you will see Display Format for New Numeric
                                    Variables. You can then, for example, change the Decimal
                                    Places option to 0. This means that all data will be
                                displayed as whole numbers, simplifying the appearance of data
                                files. You can also change the Decimals value for individual
                                variables just by clicking on its Decimals tab in Variable
                                    View and clicking the up or down arrows.

On The Web 22.2
For more on naming variables go to:

http://www.indigorose.com/webhelp/ams/Tips/Naming_Variables.htm



Activity 22.8
For each of the variable names you have created under
                                    Name, you need to give each Name a variable Type. The
                                    default Type is Numeric. If you wish to change this, just
                                    click on the cell containing the word Numeric and a
                                    dialogue box will appear (see Figure 22.8). Click on the appropriate radio button. If
                                    you need to, adjust the Width and Decimal Places and then click
                                    on OK.




Label
The Label column provides an opportunity to input a longer and
                                more comprehensive label compared to the one used in the Name
                                column (see the left-hand column in Table
                                    22.1).


Values
The Values column allows you to define your values. Take, for
                                example, 'Gender' as in Table
                                    22.1. The following procedure allows you to create values
                                for this variable.
In the Gender row, click on the three small dots in the
                                        right-hand side of the box in the Values column.Click in the box marked Value. Type in 1.Now click on the box marked Label. Type in Male.Click on Add.Now click on Value again and add 2.Now click on the box marked Label. Type in
                                            Female (see Figure 22.9).To finish click on OK.
Figure 22.9
                                    The Value Labels box after '1' has been added to
                                    Value and 'Male' to LabelReprint Courtesy of International
                                    Business Machines Corporation, © International Business
                                    Machines Corporation


Missing
Any missing data will be recognized by SPSS, so it is not necessary
                                to do anything about the Missing column. However, if you
                                intend to specify missing values (for example, 'not
                                applicable'), then this must be specified in the
                                    Missing column. Hence, 99 = not applicable (N/A). But to
                                ensure that SPSS does not include the value in statistical analysis,
                                the N/A value must be accounted for. Click on the three dots in a
                                cell in the Missing column and choose Discrete missing values
                                in the dialogue box. Type the value 99. Then click on OK.



Missing Data




Top Tip 22.2
Conducting statistical research can involve creating a number of
                                    data sets, on each of which various statistical analyses may be
                                    carried out. It is sensible to keep a list of data files, and
                                    also records of the analyses that were performed. Perhaps you
                                    could keep a section of your codebook for this purpose.




Entering And Modifying Data

Entering Data
Having created your labels and given them values, you are now ready
                                to enter your data. To help you do this, we are going to get you to
                                enter some data, based upon the variables set up in the previous
                                section. The data set will be very small as the idea is to give you
                                experience in inputting data - not to give you typing or
                                mouse fatigue!
Click on Data View. A window should appear that
                                        contains all of your defined variables listed at the top of
                                        each column.Click on the first cell - the first row of the first
                                        column.Type in your data.Move the cursor into the next cell (first row, second
                                        column) by clicking the Tab key or using the mouse. Enter
                                        the data.Complete the data input across the row.Click on the first cell of the second row of the first
                                        column.To correct any mistakes, simply click in the relevant cell
                                        and type in the correct value.


Modifying Data
There may be times when you need to modify your data file. Here you
                                will need to make sure that you are displaying Data View.

Delete A Case
Move the cursor to the case (row) you wish to delete, positioning
                                    the cursor to the left of the screen in the row containing the
                                    case number. Click to highlight the row, then click on
                                        Edit and then on Clear.


Delete A Variable
Move the cursor to the variable (column) you wish to delete,
                                    positioning the cursor above the column. Click to highlight the
                                    column, then click on Edit and then on Clear.




Navigating The Windows Interfaces
Apart from the Menus and Toolbar, SPSS allows you five different ways of
                            viewing your data: DataEditor, the Viewer, the Pivot
                                Table Editor, Chart Editor and the Syntax Editor.
                                Note that when using SPSS
                            you will have a number of windows open at the same time. One of these is
                            going to be the Data Editor because this contains the file that
                            is being analysed. Once you begin to analyse data, the Viewer
                            window will open because this is where the results of analysis are
                            displayed. It can, at first, seem rather confusing having so many
                            windows open at the same time. However, navigation is made easy. To have
                            a particular window on top, simply click the name of the window where it
                            appears at the bottom of the screen. You can perform the same operation
                            by clicking on the Window drop down menu which will list all the
                            windows that are open. Just click on the one that you want. Now let us
                            look at each of the windows interfaces in turn.

The Data Editor Window
The Data Editor window displays the contents of a data file
                                with variables in the columns and each case in the rows. In the
                                    Data Editor you can open a data file, save a file, create
                                a new file, enter data, make changes to existing data and run
                                statistical analyses. As we saw earlier, the Data Editor is made up
                                of two screens: the Data View and the Variable
                                View.


The Viewer Window
When you conduct statistical analysis, the Viewer window will
                                launch automatically and should look like the output in Figure 22.10. Note that the
                                    Viewer is not the same as the Data Viewer which,
                                as we have seen, is a spreadsheet into which you enter your data.
                                    Viewer presents the output from statistical analysis.
                                Hence, the left-hand pane contains a list of all the analyses that
                                you have conducted, allowing you to easily navigate your way back
                                and forth between outputs. In the right-hand pane are the results
                                from the analysis. You can see more examples of outputs in the
                                Worked Examples in Chapter 23.
Figure 22.10
                                    Output in the Viewer windowReprint Courtesy of International
                                    Business Machines Corporation, © International Business
                                    Machines Corporation



The Pivot Table Editor Window
The tables that appear in the Viewer window (which SPSS calls
                                pivot tables) can be reformatted and also turned into graphs. To
                                modify one of these pivot tables, double-click on it to be taken to
                                the Pivot Table Editor. Here you can change the fonts used in
                                the table, and alter column widths, to improve the table's
                                overall appearance. To create graphics from the results,
                                double-click on a table, then right click on the mouse to see the
                                graphing options.


The Chart Editor Window
As we saw above, you can create graphics in the Viewer window
                                using the Pivot Table Editor. However, if you wish to make
                                modifications to graphics you need to do this in the Chart
                                    Editor window. Simply double-click on your chart and this
                                will launch the Chart Editor in which you can change the type
                                of graphic used as well as the fonts, colours and the patterns
                                within the graphs.


The Syntax Editor Window
The SPSS windows format makes life relatively easy because of its
                                graphical interface. However, behind the windows façade, the
                                system is running computer code in the form of a special command
                                language or syntax. In most circumstances, you have no need to gain
                                access to this. However, for more advanced users, it is possible to
                                access and modify the basic commands by using the Syntax
                                    Editor.



Handling Missing Data
It is unfortunate but true that data sets often contain missing data,
                            often because respondents forget or refuse to answer some questions. In
                            long, online questionnaires, for example, fatigue might set in and many
                            respondents might omit to complete the last sections. It is important,
                            then, to check data files for any missing data. This is done by running
                                Descriptives to find out what proportion of values is missing
                            for each variable. If this results in finding a variable with a lot of
                            missing data, you need to consider whether this is just a random
                            outcome, or whether there is a systematic flaw in the data gathering
                            instrument. For example, many people may be reluctant to indicate what
                            salary they earn.
The next step comes in deciding how to deal with the missing values.
                            Clicking on Options presents a number of choices some of which
                            are more appropriate than others.
Exclude cases listwise option includes cases only if they
                                    have full data on all of the variables listed in the
                                        Variables box for that case. So, if a respondent,
                                    say, provides data on all the variables except their age, this
                                    one missing piece of data will preclude the case from the
                                    analysis. Hence, choosing Exclude cases listwise can
                                    limit your sample size. A lot of missing data on one variable
                                    might indicate that there are fundamental problems with it and
                                    it was not worth using (for example a survey question was poorly
                                    worded).Exclude cases pairwise option excludes cases only if they
                                    are missing the data required for a specific analysis. Pallant
                                    (2013) suggests using this option unless there are compelling
                                    reasons for doing otherwise.Replace with mean option calculates the mean value for
                                    the variable and gives every missing variable this value.
                                    Pallant (2013) warns that this option should never be used as it
                                    can severely distort the results of your analysis, particularly
                                    if there are many missing values.



Recoding Or Transforming Data
No matter how carefully you have planned your data design there will come
                            a time when you will want to work with some variables in different
                            formats or to collapse the number of categories of a categorical
                            variable. So, for example, say you collected data on a
                            population's salary level, but now find that your data tells you
                            the results are widely dispersed. Ideally, you would like to divide the
                            data into three categories of high, middle, and low income groups. This
                            kind of data manipulation is called recoding or transforming. Before
                            recoding a variable it makes sense to back up your data by saving it
                            under another name. In recoding a categorical variable:
From the menu, click on Transform, and then on
                                        Recode. Then click on Into DifferentVariables
                                    to open up the Recode window. Note the importance of
                                    recoding into 'different variables' as failure to
                                    do this will result in a loss of the original variable which you
                                    may need for later analysis.Select the variable that is to be recoded (Income), moving it
                                    into the Input Variable-> Output Variable box. In
                                    the Name box, type a new name for the new variable (for
                                    example, LowIncome). Click on Change.Click on the button Old and New Values to create the new
                                    codes.Click the second Range (lowest through) radio button to
                                    activate its field.Click in the Lowest through range and type 15000.Click on the Value field under New Value and type:
                                    1. Now all incomes of less than 15000 will be assigned a value
                                    of 1.Click on Add. Notice that the definition of the old and
                                    new values now appears in the Old->New
                                    window.Repeat this process for the middle and high income groups.Click Continue. The Old and New Values window now
                                    closes and the original Recode into Different Variables
                                    window is displayed.In the field for Output Variable Name type:
                                        incrangeIn the field for the Output Variable Label type:
                                        Income RangeClick Change. The new name is now listed in the
                                        Numeric Variable->Output Variable box as
                                        salary->incrangeClick OK. The Recode window closes and Data
                                        View is now displayed, with a new column on the right
                                    for incrange



Recording Data


Recoding can also be used for combining two categorical variables
                            together. Say, for example, that you have collected data for three
                            categories of organization: small and medium enterprises (SMEs), large
                            corporations, and voluntary sector organizations. You now find that most
                            of the responses have come from SMEs and voluntary sector organizations
                            with very few from corporates. Using the approach described above, you
                            can merge the SME and corporate data into a new variable (which you
                            could label 'Private sector') with the voluntary sector as
                            the second variable.

Top Tip 22.3
Before recoding data, it is essential to back up your data set by
                                saving it under another name. This ensures that any transformations
                                done to the data do not modify your data set in ways you did not
                                anticipate (or want!). Secondly, when recoding, do not recode
                                variables into the same name. Doing this deletes your existing data
                                (hence, the initial warning to save your data set under another name
                                for back-up) and it destroys the history of the data. Always create
                                a new variable to contain the new codes.




Exporting Into Ms Word
It is easy to export a chart or the output from statistical analysis into
                            MS Word. In copying a graph, the simplest way is to use a copy and paste
                            procedure. Note that if the graph requires editing, this should be done
                            in SPSS as once it is imported into MS Word the most you can do is
                            resize the graph. To copy and paste the graph:
Select the graph to be copied (click on the graph itself).In the main SPSS menu click on Edit > Copy Special
                                        >Image (JPG, PNG). Click on
                                    OK.Open your MS Word document and place the cursor at the point
                                    where you want to insert the graph.In the MS Word menu click on Home > Paste >
                                        Paste Special and select Picture
                                    (JPEG).
Similarly, if you have statistical output tables (as in Figure 22.10) you can import
                            selected tables into Word simply by the following process:
Select the data set table to be copied (click on the table
                                    itself).In the main SPSS menu click on Edit > Copy
                                    Special. Click on OK.Open your MS Word document and place the cursor at the point
                                    where you want to insert the table.In MS Word, click on Home > Paste (Keep Source
                                        Formatting)


Getting Help
SPSS provides you with a number of useful Help facilities. Clicking on
                            the Help menu allows you to search on topics, or you can click through
                            the Tutorial pages. A series of case studies are provided to explain
                            themes in more depth. However, in addition to SPSS itself, there are
                            many tutorials on the Web. If you want to supplement what you have
                            studied in this chapter with more information on getting started using
                            SPSS, then go to Google and type: SPSS beginners youtube. This will take
                            you to a range of short video clips on some of the basics of using
                            SPSS.


Summary
It is suggested that, at an early stage, you create a codebook
                                    in which you should define the labels for your variables, and
                                    assign a number for each possible response.Two of the most useful and important tabs are Data View
                                    (in which you can view and modify your data) and Variable
                                        View (in which you can add and modify your
                                    variables).From the Edit menu you can insert new variables and
                                    insert new cases (for example, when new questionnaires are
                                    completed by respondents).The Analyze menu offers you a wide range of statistical
                                    tools, many of which are described in Chapter 23.After conducting a statistical analysis you will see the results
                                    displayed in the Viewer window. Double-clicking on a
                                    pivot table allows you to change the appearance of tables. Right
                                    clicking allows you to create graphs.Recoding or transforming data can involve splitting a data set
                                    into more categories, or collapsing two or more categories into
                                    one.It is relatively easy to export SPSS output into MS Word,
                                    largely by using the copy and paste function.Help on using SPSS is available in the program, but also
                                    consider some of the useful video tutorials available in
                                    YouTube.

Review Questions
What purpose does a codebook serve? What might be the
                                        consequences of not bothering with a codebook?Describe why it is useful to keep a log of the statistical
                                        analyses conducted.



Further Reading
Field, A. (2013) Discovering Statistics Using SPSS, 4th edn.
                            London: Sage. A book that not only teaches how to use SPSS but delivers
                            instruction about how to use statistical analysis at the same time.
                            Highly detailed and probably more for the advanced user.
Pallant, J. (2013) SPSS Survival Manual: A Step by Step Guide to Data
                                Analysis Using SPSS, 5th edn. Maidenhead: Open University
                            Press/McGraw-Hill. From basic through to advanced techniques, this
                            excellent book is written in a clear, accessible style.

Don't forget to visit the companion website at https://study.sagepub.com/grayresearchbusiness for the
                                following resources which support this chapter:


















23 Analysing And Presenting
                        Quantitative Data

Chapter Introduction

Chapter Outline
Categorizing dataData entry, layout and qualityPresenting data using descriptive statisticsAnalysing data using descriptive statisticsThe process of hypothesis testing: inferential
                                        statisticsStatistical analysis: comparing variablesStatistical analysis: associations between variables


Keywords
Categorizing dataData entryDescriptive statisticsDistributionsHypothesesInferential statisticsSignificanceCorrelation analysisRegression



Icon Key







Author Video







Chapter Objectives
After reading this chapter you will be able to:
Prepare quantitative data for analysis.Select appropriate formats for the presentation of
                                        quantitative data.Choose the most appropriate techniques for describing data
                                        (descriptive statistics).Choose and apply the most appropriate statistical techniques
                                        for exploring relationships and trends in data (correlation
                                        and inferential statistics).



As we have seen in previous chapters, the distinction between
                            quantitative and qualitative research methods is often blurred. Take,
                            for example, survey methods. These can be purely descriptive in design,
                            but on the other hand, the gathering of respondent profile data provides
                            an opportunity for finding associations between classifications of
                            respondents and their attitudes or behaviour, providing the potential
                            for quantitative analysis.
One of the essential features of quantitative analysis is that, if you
                            have planned your research tool, collected your data and now you are
                            thinking of how to analyse it - you are too late! The process of
                            selecting statistical tests should take place at the planning stage of
                            research, not at implementation. This is because it is so easy to end up
                            with data for which there is no meaningful statistical test. Robson
                            (2002) also provides an astute warning that, particularly with the aid
                            of the modern computer, it becomes much easier to generate elegantly
                            presented rubbish, reminding us of GIGO - Garbage In, Garbage Out
                            (Robson, 2002).
The aim of this chapter is to introduce you to some of the basic
                            statistical techniques. It does not pretend to provide you with an
                            in-depth analysis of more complex statistics, since there are
                            specialized textbooks for this purpose. It is assumed that you will have
                            access to a computer and an appropriate software application for
                            statistical analysis, particularly IBM SPSS Statistics. Note that in
                            this chapter, rather than offer you Activities, Worked Examples using
                            statistical formulae will be provided. In some cases, these will be
                            supported with data from the book's website (see: https://study.sagepub.com/grayresearchbusiness) so that you can
                            apply some statistical tests to 'real' data.

Top Tip 23.1
If you are relatively new to statistics, try to get access to someone
                                more experienced than yourself to act as a guide or mentor. Also, of
                                course, if you have an academic supervisor, ensure that you maintain
                                regular contact and ask for advice. As suggested in Chapter 22, there are also many
                                useful online tutorials on statistics on YouTube. If you are new to
                                statistics, you might find it helpful if you add the word
                                'basic' to 'statistics' in the YouTube
                                search engine.



Basic Statistics Lesson





Categorizing Data
The process of categorizing data is important because, as was noted in Chapter 6, the statistical tests
                            that are used for data analysis will depend on the type of data being
                            collected. Hence, the first
                            step is to classify your data into one of two categories, categorical or
                            quantifiable (see Figure 23.1). Categorical
                                data cannot be quantified numerically but are either placed into
                            sets or categories (nominal data) or ranked in some way (ordinal data).
                            Quantifiable data can be measured numerically, which means that they are
                            more precise. Within the quantifiable classification there are two
                            additional categories of interval and ratio data. All of these
                            categories are described in more detail below. Saunders et al. (2012)
                            warn that if you are not sure about the level of detail you need in your
                            research study, it is safest to collect data at the highest level of
                            precision possible.



Categorical Data Analysis


In simple terms, these data are used for different analysis purposes. Table 23.1 suggests some typical
                            uses and the kinds of statistical tests that are appropriate.
As Diamantopoulos and Schlegelmilch (1997) point out, the four kinds of
                            measurement scale are nested within one another: as we move from a lower
                            level of measurement to a higher one, the properties of the lower type
                            are retained. Thus, all the statistical tests appropriate to the lower
                            type of data can be used with the higher types as well as additional,
                            more powerful tests. But this does not work in reverse: as we move from,
                            say, interval data to ordinal, the tests appropriate for the former
                            cannot be applied to the latter. For categorical data only,
                            non-parametric statistical tests can be used, but for quantifiable data
                            (see Figure 23.1), more powerful
                            parametric tests need to be applied. Hence, in planning data collection
                            it is better to design data gathering instruments that yield interval
                            and ratio data, if this is appropriate to the research objectives. Let
                            us look at each of the four data categories in turn.
Figure 23.1 Types
                                of categorical and quantifiable data





Nominal Data
Nominal data constitute a name value or category with no order or
                                ranking implied (for example, sales departments, occupational
                                descriptors of employees, etc.). A typical question that yields
                                nominal data is presented in Figure
                                    23.2, with a set of data that results from this presented in
                                    Table 23.2. Thus, we can see
                                that with nominal data, we build up a simple frequency count of how
                                often the nominal category occurs.



Nominal Scale


Figure 23.2
                                    Types of questions that yield nominal data





Ordinal Data
Ordinal data comprises an ordering or ranking of values, although the
                                intervals between the ranks are not intended to be equal (for
                                example, an attitude questionnaire). A type of question that yields
                                ordinal data is presented in Figure
                                    23.3. Here there is a ranking of views (Sometimes, Never,
                                etc.) where the order of such views is important but there is no
                                suggestion that the differences between each scale are identical.
                                Ordinal scales are also used for questions that rate the quality of
                                something (for example, very good, good, fair, poor, etc.) and
                                agreements (for example, Strongly Agree, Agree, Disagree, etc.). The
                                typical results of gathering ordinal data are taken from Figure 23.3 and presented in Table 23.3.



Ordinal Measure




Interval Data
With quantifiable measures such as interval data, numerical values
                                are assigned along an interval scale with equal intervals, but there
                                is no zero point where the trait being measured does not exist. For
                                example, a score of zero on a traditional IQ test would have no
                                meaning. This is because the traditional IQ score is the raw
                                (actual) score converted into a mental age divided by chronological
                                age. Another characteristic of interval data is that the difference
                                between a score of 14 and 15 would be the same as the difference
                                between a score of 91 and 92. Hence, in contrast to ordinal data,
                                the differences between categories are identical. The kinds of
                                results from interval data are illustrated in Table
                                    23.4, delivered as part of a company's aptitude
                                assessment of staff.



Interval Measure


Figure 23.3
                                    Types of questions that yield ordinal data









Ratio Data
Ratio data are a subset of interval data, and the scale is again
                                interval, but there is an absolute zero that represents some
                                meaning, for example, scores on an achievement test. If an employee,
                                for example, undertakes a work-related test and scores zero, this
                                would indicate a complete lack of knowledge or ability in this
                                subject! An example of ratio data is presented in Table 23.5.



Ratio Scale


This sort of classification scheme is important because it influences
                                the ways in which data are analysed and what kind of statistical
                                tests can be applied. Having incorporated variables into a
                                classification scheme, the next stage is to look at how data should
                                be captured and laid out, prior to analysis and presentation.






Data Entry, Layout And Quality
Data entry involves a number of stages, beginning with
                            'cleaning' the data, planning and implementing the actual
                            input of the data, and dealing with the thorny problem of missing data.
                            Ways of avoiding the degradation of data will also be discussed.

Cleaning The Data
Data analysis will only be reliable if it is built upon the
                                foundations of 'clean' data, that is, data that have
                                been entered into the computer accurately. When entering data
                                containing a large number of variables and many individual records,
                                it is easy to enter a wrong figure or to miss an entry. One solution
                                is for two people to enter data separately and to compare the
                                results, but this is expensive. Another approach is to use frequency
                                analysis on a column of data that will throw up any spurious figures
                                that have been entered. For example, if you are using numbers 1 to 5
                                to represent individual codes for each of five variables, the
                                frequency analysis might show that you had also entered the number 8
                                - clearly a mistake. Where there are branching or skip
                                questions (recall Chapter 14) it may also be
                                necessary to check that respondents are going through the questions
                                carefully. For example, they may be completing sections that do not
                                apply to them or missing other sections.



Cleaning Data




Data Coding And Layout
Coding usually involves allocating an identification number (Id) to
                                data. Take care, however, not to make the mistake of subsequently
                                analysing the codes as raw data! The codes are merely shorthand ways of describing
                                the data. Once the coding is completed, it is possible to collate
                                the data into groups of less detailed categories. So, in Case Study
                                23.1 the categories could be re-coded to form the groups Legal and
                                Financial and then Health and Safety.
The most obvious approach to data layout is the use of tables in the
                                form of a data matrix. Within each data matrix, columns will
                                represent a single variable while each row presents a case or
                                profile. Hence, Table 23.6 illustrates an
                                example of data from a survey of employee attitudes. The second
                                column, labelled 'Id', is the survey form identifier,
                                allowing the researcher to check back to the original survey form
                                when checking for errors. The next column contains numbers, each of
                                which signifies a particular department. Length of service is
                                quantifiable data representing actual years spent in the
                                organization, while seniority is again coded data signifying
                                different scales of seniority. Thus, the numerical values have
                                different meanings for different variables. Note that Table 23.6 is typical of the
                                kind of data matrix that can be set up in a software program such as
                                SPSS, ready for the application of statistical formulae.
Case Study 23.1 illustrates the kind of survey layout and structure
                                that yields data suitable for a data matrix (presented at the end of
                                the case study). Hence, we have a range of variables and structured
                                responses, each of which can be coded.




Case Study 23.1

From Survey Instrument To Data Matrix
A voluntary association that provides free advice to the
                                        public seeks to discover which of its services are most
                                        utilized. A survey form is designed dealing with four
                                        potential areas, namely the law, finance, health and safety
                                        in the home.
Question: Please look at the following services and
                                        indicate whether you have used any of them in the last 12
                                        months.



The data are
                                        collected from 100 respondents and input into the following
                                        data matrix using the numerical codes: 1 = Yes; 2 = No; For
                                        no data or non-response the cell should be left blank.



Note that Respondent 3 has ticked the box for 'Legal
                                        advice' but has failed to complete any of the others
                                        - hence, a '0' for no data has to be
                                        put in the matrix.




Dealing With Missing Data
Oppenheim (1992) notes that the best approach to dealing with missing
                                data is not to have any! Hence, steps should be taken to ensure that
                                data are collected from the entire intended sample and that
                                non-response is kept to a minimum. But in practice, we know that
                                there will be cases where either a respondent has not replied or has
                                not answered all the questions. The issue here is one of potential
                                bias - has the respondent omitted those questions they feel
                                uneasy about or hostile to answering? For example, in answering a
                                staff survey on working practices, are those with the worst records
                                on absenteeism more likely to omit the questions on this (hence,
                                potentially biasing the analysis)?
It might be useful to distinguish between four different types of
                                missing values: 'Not applicable' (NA),
                                'Refused' (RF), 'Did not know' (DK) and
                                'Forgot to answer' (FA). Making this distinction may
                                help you to adopt strategies for coping with this data loss. Table 23.7 illustrates examples
                                of these responses.



You may note that the categories for non-response chosen may depend
                                largely on the researcher's inferences or guesswork. How do
                                we know that someone forgot to answer or simply did not know how to
                                respond? Of course, if many people fail to answer the same question,
                                this might suggest there is something about the question they do not
                                like - in which case, this could be construed as
                                'Refusal'. You may decide to ignore these separate
                                categories and just use one 'No answer' label.
                                Alternatively, you might put in a value if this is possible by taking the average of
                                other people's responses. There are dangers, however, in this
                                approach, particularly for single item questions. Note that some
                                statisticians have spent almost a lifetime pondering issues of this
                                kind! It would be safer if missing data were entered for a
                                sub-question that comprised just one of a number of sub-questions
                                (for which data were available). Note, also, that this becomes
                                unfeasible if there are many non-responses to the same question,
                                since it would leave the calculation based on a small sample.


Avoiding The Degradation Of Data
It is fairly clear when non-response has occurred, but it is also
                                possible to compromise the quality of data by the process of
                                degradation. Say we were interested in measuring the age profile of
                                the workforce and drew up a questionnaire, as illustrated in Figure 23.4. One problem here
                                is that the age categories are unequal (for example, 18-24
                                compared with 25-34). But a further difficulty is the loss of
                                information that comes with collecting the data in this way. We have
                                ended up with an ordinal measure of what should be ratio data and
                                cannot even calculate the average age of the workforce. Far better
                                would have been simply to ask for each person's exact age
                                (for example, by requesting their date of birth) and the date the
                                questionnaire was completed. After this, we could calculate the
                                average age (mean), the modal (most frequently occurring) age and
                                identify both the oldest and youngest worker, etc.
Figure 23.4
                                    Section of questionnaire comprising an age profile



Presenting Data Using Descriptive Statistics
One of the aims of descriptive statistics is to describe the basic
                            features of a study, often through the use of graphical analysis.
                            Descriptive statistics are distinguished from inferential statistics in
                            that they attempt to show what the data is, while inferential statistics
                            try to draw conclusions beyond the data - for example, inferring
                            what a population may think on the basis of sample data.
Descriptive statistics, and in particular the use of charts or graphs,
                            certainly provide the potential for the communication of data in readily
                            accessible formats, but the kinds of graphics used will depend on the types of data
                            being presented. This is why the start of this chapter focused on
                            classifying data into nominal, ordinal, interval and ratio categories,
                            since not all types of graph are appropriate for all kinds of data.
                            Black (1999) provides a neat summary of what is appropriate (see Table 23.8).


Source: Adapted from Black, 1999:
                                306


Nominal And Ordinal Data - Single Groups
As we saw earlier, nominal data are a record of categories or names,
                                with no intended order or ranking, while ordinal data do assume some
                                intended ordering of categories. Taking the nominal data in Table 23.2, we can present a
                                bar chart (Figure 23.5) for the frequency
                                count of staff in different departments.
Figure 23.5
                                    Bar chart for the nominal data in Table
                                        23.2
Figure 23.6 shows that this
                                same set of data can also be presented in the form of a pie chart.
                                Note that pie charts are suitable for illustrating nominal data but
                                are not appropriate for ordinal data - obviously, because it
                                presents proportions of a total, not the ordering of categories.


Interval And Ratio Data - Single Groups
Interval and ratio data describe scores on tests, age, weight, annual
                                income, etc., for a group of individuals. These numbers are then,
                                usually, translated into a frequency table, such as in Table 23.3. The first stage is
                                to decide on the number of intervals in the data. Black (1999)
                                recommends between 10 and 20 as acceptable, since going outside this
                                range would tend to distort the shape of the histogram or frequency
                                polygon. Take a look at the data on an age profile of the entire
                                workforce in an e-commerce development organization, presented in Table 23.9. The age range is
                                from 23 to 43, a difference of 21. If we selected an interval range
                                of 3, this would only give us a set of seven age ranges and conflict
                                with Black's (1999) recommendation that only a minimum of 10
                                ranges is acceptable. If, however, we took two as the interval
                                range, we would end up with 11 sets of intervals, as in Table 23.10, which is
                                acceptable. We then take this data for graphical presentation in the
                                form of a histogram, as in Figure
                                    23.7.
Figure 23.6
                                    Pie chart of the nominal data in Figure 23.5







Figure 23.7
                                    Histogram illustrating interval data in Table
                                        23.10


Nominal Data - Comparing Groups
So far, we have looked at presenting single sets of data. But often
                                research will require us to gather data on a number of related
                                characteristics and it is useful to be able to compare these
                                graphically. For example, returning to Table
                                    23.2 and the number of employees per department, these may
                                be aggregate frequencies, based on the spread of both male and
                                female workers per department, as in Figure
                                    23.8.
Another way of presenting these kind of data is where it is useful to
                                show not only the distribution between groups, but the total size of
                                each group, as in Figure 23.9.


Interval And Ratio Data - Comparing Groups
It is sometimes necessary to compare two groups for traits that are
                                measured as continuous data. While this exercise is, as we have
                                seen, relatively easy for nominal data that is discrete, for
                                interval and ratio data the two sets of data may overlap and one
                                hide the other. The solution is to use a frequency polygon. As we
                                can see in Figure 23.10, we have two sets
                                of continuous data of test scores, one set for a group of employees
                                who have received training and another for those who have not. The
                                frequency polygon enables us to see both sets of results
                                simultaneously and to compare the trends.
Figure 23.8
                                    Bar chart for nominal data with comparison between groups
Figure 23.9
                                    Stacked bar chart for nominal data with comparison between
                                    groups


Two Variables For A Single Group
You may also want to compare two variables for a single group.
                                Returning once more to our example of departments, we might look at
                                the age profiles of the workers in each of them. Figure
                                    23.11 shows the result.
Figure 23.10
                                    Frequency polygons for two sets of continuous data showing test
                                    scores
Figure 23.11
                                    Solid polygon showing data for two variables: department and
                                    age



Analysing Data Using Descriptive Statistics
A descriptive focus involves the creation of a summary picture of a
                            sample or population in terms of key variables being researched. This
                            may involve the presentation of data in graphical form (as in the
                            previous section) or the use of descriptive statistics, as discussed
                            here.



Top Tip: Analysing and Presenting
                                    Quantitative Data



Frequency Distribution And Central Tendency
Frequency distribution is one of the most common methods of data
                                analysis, particularly for analysing survey data. Frequency simply
                                means the number of instances in a class, and in surveys it is often associated with
                                the use of Likert scales. So, for example, a survey might measure
                                customer satisfaction for a particular product over a two-year
                                period. Table 23.11 presents a typical
                                set of results, showing what percentage of customers answered for
                                each attitude category to the statement: 'We think that the
                                Squeezy floor cleaner is good value for money'.



Comparing the data between the two years, it appears that there has
                                been a 7 per cent rise in the number of customers who
                                'Strongly Agree' that the floor cleaner is good value
                                for money. Unfortunately, just to report this result would be
                                misleading because, as we can see, there has also been a 6 per cent
                                rise in those who 'Strongly Disagree' with the
                                statement. So what are we to make of the results? Given that the
                                'Agree' category has fallen by 7 per cent and the
                                'Disagree' category by 6 per cent, have attitudes
                                moved for or against the product? To make sense of the data, two
                                approaches need to be adopted.
The use of all the data, not just selected figures that meet
                                        the researcher's agendas.A way of quantifying the results using a single,
                                        representative figure.
This scoring method involves the calculation of a mean score for each
                                set of data. Hence the categories could be given a score, as
                                illustrated in Table 23.12.



All respondents' scores can then be added up, yielding the set
                                of scores presented in Table
                                    23.13, and the mean, showing that, overall, attitudes have
                                moved very slightly in favour of the product.



Since the data can be described by the mean, a single figure, it
                                becomes possible to make comparisons between different parts of the
                                data or, if, say, two surveys are carried out at different periods, across time. Of
                                course, there are also dangers in this approach. There is an
                                assumption (possibly a mistaken one) that the differences between
                                these ordinal categories are identical. Furthermore, the mean is
                                only one measure of central tendency, others include the
                                    median and the mode. The median is the central
                                value when all the scores are arranged in order. The mode is simply
                                the most frequently occurring value. If the median and mode scores
                                are less than the mean, the distribution of scores will be skewed to
                                the left (positive skew); if they are greater than the mean, the
                                scores are said to be skewed to the right (negative skew). So, while
                                two mean scores could be identical, this need not imply that two
                                sets of scores were the same, since each might have a different
                                distribution of scores.
Having made these qualifications, this scoring method can still be
                                used, but is probably best utilized over a multiple set of scores
                                rather than just a single set. It is also safest used for
                                descriptive rather than for inferential statistics.

Measuring Dispersion
In addition to measuring central tendency, it may also be
                                    important to measure the spread of responses around the mean to
                                    show whether the mean is representative of the responses or
                                    not.
There are a number of ways of calculating measures of
                                        dispersion:
The
range: the difference between the highest and the
                                            lowest scores.The inter-quartile range: the difference between
                                            the score that has a quarter of the scores below it
                                            (often known as the first quartile or the 25th
                                                percentile) and the score that has
                                            three-quarters of the scores below it (the 75th
                                            percentile).The variance: a measure of the average of the
                                            squared deviations of individual scores from the
                                            mean.The standard deviation: a measure of the extent
                                            to which responses vary from the mean, and is derived by
                                            calculating the variation from the mean, squaring them,
                                            adding them and calculating the square root. Like the
                                            mean, because you are able to calculate a single figure,
                                            it allows comparisons to be made between different parts
                                            of a survey and across time periods.



Normal And Skewed Distributions
The normal distribution curve is bell-shaped, that is
                                symmetrical around the mean, which means that there are an equal
                                number of subjects above and below the mean (x-). The shape
                                of the curve also indicates the proportion of subjects at each of
                                the standard deviations (S, 1S, etc.) above and below the mean. Thus
                                in Figure 23.12, 34.13 per cent of
                                the subjects are one standard deviation above the mean and
                                another 34.13 per cent below it.
In the real world, however it is often the case that distributions
                                are not normal, but skewed, and this will have implications
                                for the relationship between the mean, the mode and the median. A
                                distribution is said to be skewed if one of its tails is longer than
                                the other. Where the distribution is positively skewed, it has a
                                long tail in a positive direction (to the right) and the majority of
                                the subjects are below, to the left of the mean in terms of the
                                trait or attitude being measured. With a negative skew, the tail is
                                in a negative direction (to the left) and the majority of subjects
                                are above the mean (to the right).
Figure 23.12
                                    The theoretical 'normal' distribution with mean =
                                    0



The Process Of Hypothesis Testing: Inferential
                            Statistics
We saw in Chapter 3 that the research process
                            may involve the formulation of a hypothesis or hypotheses that describe
                            the relationship between two variables. In this section we will
                            re-examine hypothesis testing in a number of stages, which comprise:
Hypothesis formulation.Specification of significance level (to see how safe it is to
                                    accept or reject the hypothesis).Identification of the probability distribution and definition of
                                    the region of rejection.Selection of appropriate statistical tests.Calculation of the test statistic and acceptance or rejection of
                                    the hypothesis.



Descriptive vs. Inferential Statistics





Selecting Statistical Tests



Hypothesis Formulation
As we saw in Chapter 3, a hypothesis is a
                                statement concerning a population (or populations) that may or may
                                not be true, and constitutes an inference or inferences about a
                                population, drawn from sample information.
Let us say that we are interested in the relationship between
                                corporate entrepreneurship and strategic management. According to
                                Schumpeter (1950) entrepreneurship involves the introduction of new
                                products, new methods of production and other innovations.
                                Barrington and Bluedorn (1999) suggest that strategic management
                                involves five dimensions, namely: scanning intensity, locus of
                                planning, planning flexibility, planning horizon and control
                                attributes. Taking just the first dimension, scanning intensity is
                                the managerial activity of learning about events and trends in an
                                organization's environment, which should yield new business
                                opportunities. Hence, Barrington and Bluedorn (1999) formulate a
                                hypothesis in the following manner:
Hypothesis 1: A positive
                                relationship exists between scanning intensity and corporate
                                entrepreneurship intensity.
However, we can never 'prove' something to be true,
                                because there always remains a finite possibility that one day
                                someone will emerge with a refutation. Hence, for research purposes,
                                we usually phrase a hypothesis in its null (negative) form. So, we
                                would state the hypothesis as:
Hypothesis 1: There is no relationship between scanning intensity and
                                corporate entrepreneurship intensity.
Then, if we find that a statistically significant relationship
                                exists, we can reject the null hypothesis.
Hypotheses come in essentially three forms. Those that:
Examine the characteristics of a single population (and may
                                        involve calculating the mean, median and standard deviation
                                        and the shape of the distribution).Explore contrasts and comparisons between groups.Examine associations and relationships between groups.
For one research study, it may be necessary to formulate a number of
                                null hypotheses incorporating statements about distributions,
                                scores, frequencies, associations and correlations.


Specification Of Significance Level
Having formulated the null hypothesis, we must next decide on the
                                circumstances in which it will be accepted or rejected. Since we do
                                not know with absolute certainty whether the hypothesis is true or
                                false, ideally we would want to reject the null hypothesis when it
                                is false, and to accept it when it is true. However, since there is
                                no such thing as an absolute certainty (especially in the real
                                world!), there is always a chance of rejecting the null hypothesis
                                when in fact it is true (called a Type I error) and accepting
                                it when it is in fact false (a Type II error). Table 23.14 presents a summary
                                of possible outcomes.



What is the potential impact of these errors? Say, for example, we
                                measure whether a new training programme improves staff attitudes to
                                customers, and we express this in null terms (the training will have
                                no effect). If we made a Type I error then we are rejecting the null
                                hypothesis, and therefore claim that the training does have an
                                effect when, in fact, this is not true. You will, no doubt,
                                recognize that we do not want to make claims for the impact of
                                independent variables that are actually false. Think of the
                                implications if we made a Type I error when testing a new drug! We
                                also want to avoid Type II errors, since here we would be accepting
                                the null hypothesis and therefore failing to notice the impact that
                                an independent variable was having.
Type I and Type II errors are the converse of each other. As Fielding
                                and Gilbert (2006) observe, anything we do to reduce a Type I error
                                will increase the likelihood of a Type II error, and vice versa.
                                Whichever error is the most likely depends on how we set the
                                significance level (see following section).



Identification Of The Probability Distribution
What are the chances of making a Type I error? This is measured by
                                what is called the significance level, which measures the
                                probability of making a mistake. The significance level is always
                                set before a test is carried out, and is traditionally set at either
                                0.05, 0.01 or 0.001. Thus, if we set our significance level at 5 per
                                cent (p = .05), we are willing to take the risk of rejecting the
                                null hypothesis when in fact it is correct 5 times out of 100.
All statistical tests are based on an area of acceptance and
                                an area of rejection. For what is termed a one-tailed
                                    test, the rejection area is either the upper or lower tail
                                of the distribution. A one-tailed test is used when the hypothesis
                                is directional, that is, it predicts an outcome at either the higher
                                or lower end of the distribution. But there may be cases when it is
                                not possible to make such a prediction. In these circumstances, a
                                    two-tailed test is used, for which there are two areas of
                                rejection - both the upper and lower tails. For example, for
                                the z distribution where p = .05 and a two-tailed test, statistical
                                tables show that the area of acceptance for the null hypothesis is
                                the central 95 per cent of the distribution and the areas of
                                rejection are the 2.5 per cent of each tail (see Figure
                                    23.13). Hence, if the test statistic is less than
                                -1.96 or greater than 1.96 the null hypothesis will be
                                rejected.
Figure 23.13
                                    Areas of acceptance and rejection in a standard normal
                                    distribution with a α .05


Selection Of Appropriate Statistical Tests
The selection of statistical tests appropriate for each hypothesis is
                                perhaps the most challenging feature of using statistics but also
                                the most necessary. It is all too easy to formulate a valid
                                hypothesis only to choose an inappropriate test, with the result
                                - statistical nonsense! The type of statistical test used
                                will depend on quite a broad range of factors.
First, the type of hypothesis - for example, hypotheses
                                concerned with the characteristics of groups, compared with
                                relationships between variables. Even within these broad groups of
                                hypotheses different tests may be needed. So a test for comparing
                                differences between group means will be different to one comparing
                                differences between medians. Even for the same sample, different
                                tests may be used depending on the size of the sample. Secondly,
                                assumptions about the distribution of populations will affect the
                                type of statistical test used. For example, different tests will be
                                used for populations for which the data are evenly distributed
                                compared with those that are not. A third consideration is the level
                                of measurement of the variables in the hypothesis. As we saw
                                earlier, different tests are appropriate for nominal, ordinal, interval and
                                ratio data, and only non-parametric tests are suitable for
                                nominal and ordinal data, but parametric tests can be used
                                with interval and ratio data. Parametric tests also work best with
                                larger sample sizes (that is, at least 30 observations per variable
                                or group) and are more powerful than non-parametric tests. This
                                simply means that they are more likely to reject the null hypothesis
                                when it should be rejected, avoiding Type I errors. Motulsky (1995)
                                advises that parametric tests should usually be selected if you are
                                sure that the population is normally distributed. Table 23.15 provides a summary
                                of the kinds of statistical test available in the variety of
                                circumstances just described.


Source: Adapted from Fink,
                                    2003

In the sections that
                                follow, we will take some examples from Table
                                    23.15 and apply them for the purpose of illustration.



Statistical Analysis: Comparing Variables
In this section and the one that follows, we will be performing a number
                            of statistical tests. It will be assumed that readers will have access
                            to SPSS.

Nominal Data - One Sample
In the following section we will look at comparing relationships
                                between variables, but here we will confine ourselves to exploring
                                the distribution of a variable. First, if we assume a pre-specified
                                distribution (such as a normal distribution), we can compare the
                                observed (actual data) frequencies against expected
                                (theoretical) frequencies, to measure what is termed the
                                    goodness-of-fit.
Let us say that a company is interested in comparing disciplinary
                                records across its four production sites by measuring the number of
                                written warnings issued in the past two years. We might assume that,
                                since the sites are of broadly equal size in terms of people
                                employed, the warnings might be evenly spread across these sites,
                                that is, 25 per cent for each. Since the total number of recorded
                                written warnings is 116 (see Table
                                    23.16), this represents 29 expected warnings per site. Data
                                are gathered (observed frequencies) to see if they match the
                                expected frequencies. The null hypothesis is that there will be no
                                difference between the observed and expected frequencies. Following
                                our earlier advice, we set the level of significance in advance. In
                                this case let us say that we set it at p = .05. If any significant
                                difference is found, then the null hypothesis will be rejected. Table 23.16 presents the data
                                in what is called a contingency table.



The appropriate test here is the chi-square distribution. For
                                each case we deduct the expected frequency from the observed
                                frequency and square the result and divide by the expected
                                frequency; the chi-square statistic is the sum of the totals (see Table 23.17).




Is the chi-square statistic of 71.86 significant? To find out, we
                                look the figure up in an appropriate statistical table for the
                                chi-square statistic. The value to use will be in the column for p =
                                .05 and for 3 degrees of freedom (the number of categories
                                minus one). This figure turns out to be 7.81, which is far exceeded
                                by our chi-square figure. Hence, we can say that the difference is
                                significant and we can reject the null hypothesis that there is no
                                difference between the issue of written warnings between the
                                sites.
Note, however, that the expected frequencies do not have to be equal.
                                Say, we know through some prior research that site B is three times
                                as likely to issue warnings as the other sites. Table
                                    23.18 presents the new data.



Here we find that the new chi-square statistic is only 6.34, which is
                                not significant. Diamantopoulos and Schlegelmilch (1997) warn that
                                when the number of categories in the variable is greater than two,
                                the chi-square test should not be used where:
More than 20 per cent of the expected frequencies are
                                        smaller than 5.Any expected frequency is less than one.
If the numbers within cells are small, and it is possible to
                                combine adjacent categories, then it is advisable to do so. For
                                example, if some of our expected frequencies in Table
                                    23.14 were rather small but sites A and B were in England
                                and site C and D in Germany, we might sensibly combine A with B and
                                C with D in order to make an international comparison study.



Nominal Groups And Quantifiable Data (Normally
                                Distributed)
Let us say that you want to compare the performance of two groups, or
                                to compare the performance of one group over a period of time using
                                quantifiable variables such as scores. In these circumstances we can
                                use a paired t-test. If we were to have two different samples
                                of people for which we wish to compare scores, then we would use an
                                independent t-test. T-tests assume that the data are
                                normally distributed, and that the two groups have the same variance
                                (the standard deviation squared). If the data are not normally
                                distributed then usually a non-parametric test, the Wilcoxon
                                signed-rank test, can be used - although, as we shall see,
                                    t-tests can be used even when the distribution is not
                                perfectly normal. The t-test compares the means of the two
                                groups to see if any differences between them are statistically
                                significant. If the p-value associated with t is low
                                (< .05), then there is evidence to accept the alternate
                                hypothesis (and reject the null hypothesis), that is, the means of
                                the two groups are statistically different.
Say that we want to examine the effectiveness of a workplace stress
                                counselling programme. Taking a simple before and after design
                                (recall Chapter 6 for some of the
                                limitations of this design), we get respondents to complete a stress
                                assessment questionnaire before the counselling and then after it.
                                We can see from the data set provided (see the book's website
                                and the link to Data sets: t-test data) that in a number of
                                cases the levels of stress have actually increased! But in most
                                cases stress levels have fallen, in some cases quite sharply. Worked
                                Example 23.1 shows how we can use SPSS to see if this is
                                statistically significant.

Worked Example 23.1
Type the gain scores for both the experimental and control groups
                                    into an SPSS data file. Before we begin any data analysis, we
                                    need to determine the normality of the data distribution, since
                                    this will influence whether we should use parametric or
                                    non-parametric statistical tests. Remember that parametric tests
                                    are the more powerful, but can only be used if the data are
                                    relatively normally distributed.
Turn to the book's website (https://study.sagepub.com/grayresearchbusiness) and
                                    click on [Data sets] and then [T-test data] and save the data.
                                    Open the data set in SPSS.
Click on [Analyze], then on [Descriptive statistics]
                                            followed by [Explore].Click on Experimental A and Experimental B and move them
                                            into the [Dependent List] box by clicking on the
                                            arrow.In the [Display] section make sure that [Both] is
                                            ticked.Click on [Statistics] and then on [Descriptives] and
                                            [Outliers]. Click on [Continue].Click on the [Plots] button. Then under [Descriptive]
                                            click on [Histogram]. Select [Normality plots with
                                            tests] and [Continue].Click on the [Options] button and in the [Missing values
                                            section] select [Exclude cases pairwise]. To complete
                                            the process click on [Continue] followed by [OK].You should then see the data as presented in the outputs
                                            below.


Case Processing Summary





Descriptives






Extreme Values



 Only a
                                                partial list of cases with the value 16.00 are shown
                                                in the table of upper extremes.
 Only a
                                                partial list of cases with the value 13.00 are shown
                                                in the table of upper extremes.
 Only a
                                                partial list of cases with the value 3.00 are shown
                                                in the table of lower extremes.




Tests For Normality




                                                Lilliefors Significance Correction





Anderson-Darlin Test and
                                                Shaprio-Wilk Test


In the Descriptives
                                        output, note the statistic for 5% Trimmed Mean. SPSS removes
                                        the top and bottom 5 per cent of cases and recalculates this
                                        new mean, to see if extreme scores (outliers) have much
                                        impact. In our example above, the mean and trimmed means are
                                        very similar so we should not be concerned about outliers
                                        distorting the results. The output also provides values for
                                            skewness and kurtosis. Skewness provides
                                        an indication of the symmetry of the distribution and (as
                                        discussed above) can be reported as positive (if scores are
                                        clustered to the left) and negative (if clustered to the
                                        right). Kurtosis refers to the peakness or otherwise of the
                                        distribution. Values of less than 0 indicate a relatively
                                        flat distribution, that is, too many cases at the extremes
                                        (as in Experimental A example).
The table labelled Test for Normality contains the
                                        Shapiro-Wilk statistic, which is generally used for samples
                                        ranging from 3 to 2,000. Above 2,000 the Kolmogorov-Smirnov
                                        statistic is generally used to test for the normality of the
                                        distribution. A result where the Sig. value is more than
                                        0.05 indicates normality, while a result that is less than
                                        0.05 violates the assumption of normality. Given that the
                                        sample size in this study is below 100 we will use the
                                        Shapiro-Wilk statistic. In the above table we can see that
                                        the statistic for Experimental A is above 0.05 indicating
                                        normality, whereas the statistic for Experimental B is below
                                        0.05 violating the assumption of normality. Does this mean
                                        that we must use a non-parametric test? Not necessarily. For
                                        sample sizes over 30, Pallant (2013) suggests that violation
                                        of the normality assumption should not lead the researcher
                                        to panic, with use of parametric tests being permissible.
                                        The next step is to take a look at the results for Skewness
                                        and Kurtosis in the Descriptives table. As long as these are
                                        between -1.0 and +1.0, we can assume that the
                                        distribution is sufficiently normal for the use of
                                        parametric tests.
Hence, we apply the procedure for a paired sample
                                        t-test as follows:
Click on [Analyze] then on [Compare Means] and then
                                                on [Paired Samples T-test].Click on the variables Experimental A and
                                                Experimental B and on the arrow to move them into
                                                the [Paired Variables] box.Click on [OK]. You should see the output as
                                                presented below.


Paired Samples Statistics





Paired Samples Test



The procedure for
                                        interpreting these results is as follows.
Look at the Paired Samples Tests, at the right-hand
                                                column labelled Sig. (2-tailed) which gives the
                                                probability value. If this is less than 0.05 then we
                                                can assume that the difference between the two
                                                scores is significant. In our case the Sig. = 0.00
                                                so the differences in the stress scores is, indeed,
                                                significant.Establish which set of scores is the higher
                                                (Experimental A or Experimental B). The box Paired
                                                Samples Statistics gives the mean for each set of
                                                scores. The mean for Experimental A was 10.3736
                                                while that for Experimental B was 8.4176. We can
                                                therefore conclude that the workplace counselling
                                                programme did, indeed, help to reduce stress.
Now a note of caution. Although we obtained differences in
                                        the two sets of scores (and the Sig. result suggests that
                                        this did not occur by chance alone), we must be careful when
                                        it comes to attributing causation. We also need to take into
                                        account other factors that could explain the fall in stress
                                        levels - refer to Design 3: One group,
                                        pre-test/post-test in Chapter 6. The researcher should try to anticipate
                                        the kinds of contaminating factors that could confound the
                                        results. One approach would be to improve the research
                                        design - for example, by introducing a control group
                                        that does not receive the intervention (in this case the
                                        stress counselling).



Normality Test






Nominal Groups And Quantifiable Data (Not Normally
                                Distributed)
In the section above we looked at differences in normally (or near
                                normally) distributed data. But what if the data do not satisfy the
                                assumptions required for statistical tests based on normal
                                distribution? Let us say that we are exploring the attitudes of men
                                and women towards the purchase of skin care products. Do women
                                prefer these types of product more than men? Figure
                                    23.14 provides an example of part of a survey dealing in
                                attitudes towards personal grooming. The resulting data from this
                                imaginary survey are provided on the book's website (see Data
                                sets: Mann-Whitney U data).
The data are captured into an SPSS file, with each questionnaire
                                being allocated its own Id number. Male respondents are allocated
                                the code 1 and females 2. The response of each person is allotted a
                                score by adding their responses. Note that in Figure
                                    23.14, question 3 has been posed in a negative form to
                                encourage respondents to think more carefully about their answers.
                                This needs to be allocated a score of 1. Hence, the total score for
                                this respondent would be coded as 6. Total scores for each
                                respondent range from 4 to 20.
Figure 23.14
                                    Example of a portion of a survey on skin care products


Worked Example 23.2
Go to the book's website (https://study.sagepub.com/grayresearchbusiness) and
                                    click on [Data sets] and then on [Mann-Whitney] and save the
                                    data. Open the data set in SPSS.
First of all, we test for whether the data are normally
                                    distributed (see Worked Example 23.1 for how to test for this). Note
                                    that as we have both a dependent variable (attitude) and
                                    independent variable (sex), you can generate data for both male
                                    and female groups by moving the categorical variable (sex) into
                                    the [Factor List] box in the [Explore] dialogue box.



Mann-Whitney U Test


Looking at the Kolmogorov-Smirnov statistic in the Tests for
                                    Normality table below, we note that the figure for Sig. is 0.00,
                                    indicating that the assumption of normality has been violated.
                                    Rather than an independent t-test, we now need to make
                                    use of its non-parametric alternative, the Mann-Whitney
                                    U.

Tests For Normality




                                                Lilliefors Significance Correction


The procedure for the Mann-Whitney U test is as follows:
Click on [Analyze], then on [Nonparametric Tests],
                                                followed by [2 Independent Samples].Click on the dependent variable [Attitudes] and the
                                                arrow to move it into the [Test Variable List]
                                                box.Click on the categorical (independent) variable
                                                [sex] and the arrow to move this into the [Group
                                                Variable] box.Click on the [Define Groups] button. In the [Group
                                                1] box input the number '1', and in
                                                the [Group 2] box, input '2' to match
                                                sex Id numbers in the data set. Click on
                                                [Continue].Click on [Mann-Whitney U] box under the label [Text
                                                Type].Click on [Options] and then [Descriptive]. Then
                                                click on [Continue] and finally, [OK].
You should see the output as presented below.


Test Statisticsa


a. Grouping Variable:
                                            Sex




Ranks



To analyse the data, look at the Test Statistics box for the
                                        value of Z and the significance level. The Z value has a
                                        significance level of 0.000. Given that this figure is lower
                                        than the probability value of 0.05, we can say that this
                                        result is significant. Since the result is significant we
                                        now need to make reference to the [Ranks] box and
                                        particularly the differences between the mean ranks,
                                        commenting on which is higher (in our example, it is
                                        females).




Note that the Mann-Whitney U test is also useful in other situations.
                                Say, for example, we employ two different training programmes that
                                teach the same topic and want to see which is the most effective. If
                                it cannot be assumed that the data come from a normal distribution,
                                we would use the Mann-Whitney U test to compare the test scores of
                                the two sets of learners.



Statistical Analysis: Associations Between Variables
This section examines situations where the study contains two independent
                            variables of the same type (nominal, ordinal, interval/ratio). Table 23.19 illustrates the
                            different kinds of measurement of association between two variables,
                            depending on the type of variable involved.




Associations Between Two Nominal Variables
Sometimes we may want to investigate relationships between two
                                nominal variables - for example:
Educational attainment and choice of career.Type of recruit (graduate/non-graduate) and level of
                                        responsibility in an organization.
You will recall in the
                                discussions about chi-square, above, that we used the statistic to
                                see whether the distribution of a variable occurred by chance or
                                not. Chi-square is appropriate when you have two or more variables
                                each of which contains at least two or more categories.
Let us say that a research team is studying a coaching programme and
                                that a set of interviews with coachees (the recipients of coaching)
                                have indicated that, when it came to a choice of coach, many (both
                                males and females) expressed positive preferences for female
                                coaches. Given that these comments were made by several respondents,
                                the researchers turned to the quantitative data to see whether this
                                was true. Table 23.20 illustrates the
                                observed values, that is, the data set that shows the gender of
                                coach selected by both female and male coachees. We can see that in
                                both cases, both male and female coachees did, indeed, choose more
                                female than male coaches. But is this difference significant? To
                                find out, we need to use the chi-square statistic. Worked Example
                                23.3 shows how SPSS can be used for this data analysis.




Worked Example 23.3
Go to the book's website (https://study.sagepub.com/grayresearchbusiness) and
                                    click on [Data sets] and then on [Chi-square] and save the data.
                                    Open the data set in SPSS.
Click on [Analyze] and then on [Descriptive Statistics]
                                            followed by [Crosstabs].Click on one of the variables, for example
                                            [GenderCoachee], and then click on the arrow to move
                                            this variable to the [Rows] box. Then click on
                                            [GenderCoach] and then the arrow to move this to the
                                            [Columns] box.Click on the [Statistics] button, followed by
                                            [Chi-square] and [Phi and Cramer's V]. Then click
                                            on [Continue].Having clicked on the [Cells] button, click on
                                            [Observed] in the [Counts] box. In the [Percentages]
                                            box, click on [Row], [Column] and [Total].Click on [Continue], followed by [OK]. You should see
                                            the output as illustrated below.

Gendercoachee * Gendercoach
                                        Crosstabulation



In analysing the
                                        above output, the first step is to ensure that one of the
                                        assumptions of the chi-square test has not been violated,
                                        that is, that the expected cell frequency should never be
                                        less than five. We can see from the footnote (b) under the
                                        Chi-Square Tests table that 0 per cent of cells have an
                                        expected count of less than 5 - so we have not
                                        violated the assumption. In the study we are discussing, the
                                        minimum expected count is, in fact, 33.08.


Chi-Square Tests




                                                Computed only for a 2 × 2 table
 0 cells
                                                (.0%) have expected count less than 5. The minimum
                                                expected count is 33.08




Symmetric Measures


a. Not assuming the null
                                            hypothesis.
b. Using the asymptotic
                                            standard error assuming the null hypothesis

When interpreting
                                        chi-square it is usual to make use of the Pearson Chi-square
                                        value (as in the Chi-Square Tests table). However, when, as
                                        in this case, we have a 2 by 2 table, it is necessary to use
                                        the Continuity Correction, which compensates for the
                                        overestimation of chi-square when using a 2 by 2 table. To
                                        be significant, this value needs to be .05 or smaller. In
                                        our case, this value is .221 so we need to conclude that
                                        this is not significant. Hence, although both male and
                                        female coachees have selected a larger number of female than
                                        male coaches, there is no statistically significant
                                        association between coachee's and coach's
                                        gender.




Correlation Analysis: Principles Of Measurement
Correlation analysis is concerned with associations between
                                variables. Correlations are sometimes confused with regression. As
                                Fink (2003) makes clear, however, correlation is concerned with
                                describing relationships (for example, between X and Y), while
                                regression predicts a value (say, X based on a value of Y). When an
                                association is measured numerically, we get a correlation
                                coefficient that gives the strength and the direction of the
                                relationship between two variables. In addition to the strength of a
                                relationship, we might also be interested in the direction of an
                                association, such as being positive or negative. Such relationships
                                can be the basis of some very important questions in organizational
                                and social analysis. For example,
Is there a positive relationship between the introduction of
                                        performance management techniques and a specific group of
                                        workers' morale? (Relationship: performance
                                        management/morale)Is there a relationship between size of company (measured by
                                        size of workforce) and efficiency (measured by output per
                                        worker)? (Relationship: company size/efficiency)Is there a positive relationship between health and safety
                                        procedures and output? (Relationship: health and safety
                                        procedures/output)
Figure 23.15
                                    Perfect positive correlation (left) and perfect negative
                                    relationship (right)
The most commonly used
                                coefficients assume a linear relationship between the variables,
                                with Figure 23.15 illustrating an
                                idealized form of 'perfect' linear correlation.
                                Measured numerically, this would give a perfectly positive
                                correlation coefficient of +1.0 for (a) and a perfectly
                                negative correlation of -1.0 for (b). Figure
                                    23.16, however, shows a much more likely type of correlation
                                where the variables are highly positively correlated. The points
                                shown all fall close to a cigar-shaped envelope. The thinner this
                                envelope, the stronger the correlation, while the broader the
                                envelope, the weaker the correlation. Where the points are scattered
                                so much as to appear entirely random, then the correlation is likely
                                to be zero, or close to it.
Figure 23.16
                                    Example of a highly positive correlation with cigar-shaped
                                    envelope
When, as is usually the case, we obtain figures that are somewhere
                                between 0.00 and 1.0, what do we make of different results? Cohen
                                (1988) suggests a range of descriptions, as illustrated in Table 23.21.



The correlation coefficient is calculated in a number of ways,
                                depending on the type of data being used. This section focuses on
                                bivariate relationships, that is, associations between just two
                                variables. Calculating a correlation for a set of data should only
                                be done when:
The subjects are independent and not chosen from the same
                                        group.The values for X and Y are measured independently.X and Y values are sampled from populations that are
                                        normally distributed.Neither of the values for X or Y is controlled (in which
                                        case, linear regression, not correlation, should be
                                        calculated).


Associations Between Two Ordinal Variables
Sometimes it is not possible to give values to variables, only ranks
                                (1st, 2nd, 3rd, etc.). Table
                                    23.22 illustrates three possible simple correlations,
                                showing extremes of correlation (+1.00 and −1.00) and
                                one slight correlation in the central column.
Let us now take the example of a case where two interviewers are
                                judging the rankings of 10 applications for a new company post. Each
                                interviewer allocates a rank from 1 to 10 for each person. Do they
                                agree? To what extent are their judgements correlated? For data that
                                are ranked, or in circumstances where relationships are non-linear,
                                    Spearman's rank-order correlation, often known as
                                Spearman's rho, can be used. Let us now look at how SPSS can
                                be used to calculate this kind of association between ordinal
                                variables.


Source: Adapted from Black,
                                    1999


Worked Example 23.4
Go to the book's website (https://study.sagepub.com/grayresearchbusiness) and
                                    click on [Data sets] and then on [Spearmans rho] and save the
                                    data. Open the data set in SPSS. To calculate Spearman's
                                    rho:
Click on [Analyze], followed by [Correlate] and then
                                            [Bivariate].Select the two variables, Mr Jones and Mrs Smith, and
                                            click on the arrow to move them to the [Variables]
                                            box.In the [Correlation Coefficients] area, tick the
                                            [Spearman's rho] box and untick [Pearson].Click on the [Options] button and for [Missing Values]
                                            click on [Exclude cases pairwise].Click on [Continue] and then [OK].
You should then see the output as in the Correlations table
                                    below.


Correlations



 Correlation is
                                                significant at the 0.01 level (2-tailed)


Pallant (2013) advises that the first data to check is the N
                                        number. Is it correct for the number of cases? You need to
                                        know if there is missing data so that you can, if possible,
                                        locate it. Next, consider the direction of the relationship
                                        - is there a negative sign in front of the
                                        correlation coefficient value? See Table 23.22 for an example of a negative
                                        correlation. Then you need to determine the strength of the
                                        relationship. Using Table 23.21, we can see the value of .779 is a very
                                        strong relationship. Finally, you need to consider the
                                        significance level - did this value appear by chance
                                        alone? Pallant (2013) notes that care must be taken in not
                                        confusing significance with the strength of the
                                        relationship. With small samples (such as N = 30) moderate
                                        correlations may not reach a traditional significance level
                                        of p < .05. Conversely, with larger samples (N =
                                        100+), small correlations may reach statistical
                                        significance.




Associations Between Numerical Variables
It is often the case that organizational researchers want to explore
                                potential associations between variables such as income or age and
                                various human activities such as spending patterns. Another use
                                would be comparing sales figures against the number of sales
                                representatives a company employs - do sales rise as more
                                representatives are used? When exploring relationships between
                                numerical data (interval and/or ratio) such as sales figures, age or
                                income, then we can use the Pearson product-moment
                                correlation. Note, however, that this statistical test is only
                                appropriate if the relationships between variables are linear. In
                                some circumstances there may be strong associations between
                                variables but the relationship may be C- or E-shaped. The Pearson
                                product-moment correlation would not be able to detect this. For
                                non-linear associations it is best to use the Spearman's rho
                                calculation (as above).



Pearson Correlation



Worked Example 23.5
Let us take the example of a cosmetics company that wants to know
                                    if there is any association between the sales of one of its face
                                    creams and the weather conditions. Are people put off from using
                                    face cream if the weather is wet? To discover if there is a
                                    relationship, the company looks at sales figures and annual
                                    rainfall patterns over the past 30 years.
Go to the book's
                                    website (https://study.sagepub.com/grayresearchbusiness) and
                                    click on [Data sets] and then on [Pearson product-moment] and
                                    save the data. Open the data set in SPSS. Before conducting a
                                    correlation, it is prudent to firstly generate a scatterplot in
                                    order to provide a visual check on the relationship between the
                                    two variables. The scatterplot also enables a check to be
                                    performed on the assumptions of linearity (the assumption that
                                    there is a straight line between variables) and homoscedasticity
                                    (all variables have the same finite variance). In other words,
                                    the output demonstrates some kind of relationship between the
                                    variables rather than being completely random. To create a
                                    scatterplot in SPSS:
From the menu, click on [Graphs] and then [Legacy
                                            Dialogs] and then [Scatter/Dot].Click on [Simple Scatter] and then [Define].Click on what you consider the dependent variable (in
                                            this case Sales) and click on the Arrow to move the
                                            variable to the Y-axis box.Next click on [Rainfall] to move this variable into the
                                            X-axis box.Finally, click on [OK]. You should see the output as
                                            illustrated by Figure 23.17.
Figure
                                            23.17 Scatterplot illustrating relationship
                                        between rainfall and face cream sales
Analysing the results of the scatterplot, it seems that there is
                                    a moderately negative correlation between the two variables
                                    rainfall and face cream sales. In considering the results take
                                    care to look for outliers, that is, data points that are away
                                    from the main cluster of points. Extreme outliers sometimes mean
                                    that the data have been entered incorrectly and this may
                                    influence the analysis. Scatterplots, however, do not yield
                                    definitive answers - it is necessary to make use of the
                                    appropriate statistical test. Given that the relationship is
                                    linear rather than curvilinear, it is appropriate to make use of
                                    the Pearson product-moment for these two variables. Before
                                    undertaking this, Pallant (2013) recommends that you should
                                    select [Edit] from the
                                    menu, then [Options] and make sure that there is a tick in the
                                    box labelled [No scientific notation for small numbers in
                                    tables]. The rest is straightforward:
Click on [Analyze] followed by [Correlate] and then
                                            [Bivariate].Click on the arrow to move the variables into the box
                                            marked [Variables].In [Correlations Coefficients] the [Pearson] box should
                                            be the default option so leave it as it is. If you
                                            needed a test for non-linear data, then you should
                                            choose the [Spearman rho] available here.Click on the [Options] button and then for [Missing
                                            Values] choose the [Exclude cases pairwise] box. If you
                                            wish, under [Options] you can also display means and
                                            standard deviations in the output.Click on [Continue] and [OK]. The output should match
                                            the data outputs below.

Descriptive Statistics





Correlations



Correlation is
                                                significant at the 0.01 level (2-tailed).


In analysing these results follow these steps:
Check that the number of cases (N) is correct and
                                                that there is no missing data. In our case N =
                                                30.Check whether the correlation figure is positive or
                                                negative. In the table above, for example, you will
                                                see a figure of -.813 which, obviously, is a
                                                negative correlation showing an inverse relationship
                                                between the two variables (when rainfall is high,
                                                face cream sales are low, and vice versa).Next determine the strength of the relationship. As
                                                indicated earlier, this can range from -1.00
                                                to 1.00, with a correlation of 0 indicating no
                                                correlation at all (refer to Table 23.21
                                                above). We can see that -.813 is a very
                                                strong relationship.Calculate how much variance the two variables share
                                                by determining the coefficient of determination. The
                                                variance expresses how much of the variation in one
                                                variable is due to the other variable. This is
                                                calculated by squaring the r value and multiplying
                                                by 100. In our example we take .813 × .813 =
                                                66 per cent.Report on the statistical significance. In the
                                                figure above, this is given as significant at the
                                                0.01 level. Note, however, that the level of
                                                significance does not indicate how strongly the two
                                                variables are correlated. It indicates how much
                                                confidence we should have in the results that have
                                                been obtained. With small samples (e.g. N = 30), we
                                                might obtain strong correlations but still not reach
                                                statistical significance. Conversely in large
                                                samples (N = 100) relatively small associations can
                                                yield significance.




Relationship Between Continuous Dependent Variable And
                                Numerous Independent Variables

Regression Analysis
Regression analysis is a suitable statistical technique when one
                                    continuous interval or ratio variable is identified as a
                                        dependent and one or more continuous interval, ratio
                                    or categorical variable is defined as an independent
                                    variable (Tabachnick and Fidell, 2001). The primary purpose of
                                    regression analysis is to test the effect of one or more
                                    independent variable on one dependent variable. In other words,
                                    regression analysis is used to measure the relationship between
                                    the dependent and independent variable and assess significance
                                    of this relationship. The second objective of regression
                                    analysis is to obtain a formula to predict the value of the
                                    dependent variable for a new case based on knowledge of one or
                                    more independent variable. Regression analysis is different from
                                    correlation analysis because correlation assesses only the
                                    relationship between the two variables which tend to move
                                    together in the same (positive) or opposite (negative)
                                    direction. Correlation analysis has no assumption that one
                                    variable (independent) is affecting the other variable (or
                                    dependent variable). For example, correlation analysis can be
                                    used to measure the relationship between advertising
                                    expenditures (independent variable) and price (dependent
                                    variable). The research aim for the correlation analysis is to
                                    find out if advertising expenditures and sales are positively
                                    related. For the linear regression, the research aim is to
                                    establish whether advertising expenditure has a statistically
                                    significant influence on sales as a dependent variable. If so,
                                    how much would be the effect of advertising expenditures on
                                    sales?



Ratio Scale


Regression analysis is a family of techniques including simple
                                    regression, multiple regression and other forms of regression.
                                    When the analysis includes only one independent (e.g.
                                    advertising expenditures) and one dependent (sales) variable,
                                    the term refers to simple regression. When the analysis includes
                                    multiple dependent variables (advertising expenditures and
                                    price) and one dependent variable the terms refer to multiple
                                    regression. When data are skewed, one or more independent
                                    variables are measured by ordinal scales or when the dependent
                                    variable is a categorical one (e.g. yes, no) one of the
                                    non-linear regression techniques such as logistic regression may
                                    be suitable for testing the effect of an independent variable on
                                    a dependent variable (Pallant, 2013). Some of the research
                                    questions that linear regression analysis can address are:
how well a set of independent variables is able to
                                            predict a particular dependent variable;which variable in a set of independent variables is the
                                            best predictor of a dependent variable; andwhether a particular independent variable (advertising
                                            expenditures) is still able to predict a dependent
                                            variable (sales) when the effects of another variable
                                            are controlled for (e.g. price).
Regression analysis produces a regression coefficient called
                                        R2 (r-square) which is similar to the
                                    correlation coefficient. As for the correlation analysis, the
                                    square of the correlation coefficient shows the proportion of
                                    variance in the two variables. As for the regression analysis,
                                    the r-square value shows the percentage of variances in the
                                    dependent variable explained by the independent variable(s). The
                                    r-square value range from 0 to 1 is similar to the positive
                                    correlation coefficient but it does not take a negative value
                                    even though some independent variables (e.g. price) may have a
                                    negative influence on the dependent variable. A value of 0
                                    indicates that the independent variable has no influence on the
                                    dependent variable. A scatterplot showing the regression line,
                                    r-square value, and the relationship between dependent and
                                    independent variable is illustrated in Figure 23.18.
Figure
                                            23.18 A linear regression scatterplot
Taking into account the previous example, if the r-square value
                                    is 0.60, this means that the regression model including
                                    advertising expenditures and price explains 60 per cent of the
                                    variance in sales. This finding also suggests that unexplained
                                    variance in the regression model is 40 per cent. Most
                                    statistical programmes also compute if the r-square is
                                    statistically significant at the 0.05 probability level.
Regression analysis produces the r-square value as well as a
                                    regression equation (or a regression model). The regression
                                    equation is the formula for computing an estimation value for
                                    the dependent variable based on the value of the independent
                                    variable. For simple
                                    linear regression analysis, there are only two values in the
                                    equation for a straight line as shown below:

Y = a + b*(X)
Y = 2,000 + 0.30*(400)

In the regression equation, Y is the intercept or the dependent
                                    variable that the equation is attempting to predict, a is
                                    constant and b is the slope of the line or the regression
                                    coefficient. To predict the value of the dependent variable (Y)
                                    such as sales when only the value of the independent variable is
                                    known (e.g. advertising expenditure = 400), the analysis would
                                    multiply the value of the regression coefficient (0.30) and add
                                    the constant (2,000).

Assumptions of regression
Regression analysis makes a number of assumptions about the
                                        data. Both the independent and dependent variables should be
                                        taken from ratio or interval scales. The dependent variable
                                        can also be a unique form of nominal data called dummy
                                        variable (e.g. agree, disagree). The relationship between
                                        the dependent and independent variables must be
                                            linear rather than curved. Regression analysis is
                                        very sensitive to outliers (very extreme scores comparing to
                                        the mean scores) and the nature of underlying relationships
                                        between the variables. Multicollinearity occurs when
                                        the independent variables are highly correlated within
                                        themselves and the dependent variable (Pallant, 2013). In
                                        addition, the variance of the residuals about predicted
                                        dependent value scores should be the same for all predicted
                                        values (homoscedasticity).
The sample size is an important issue for regression analysis
                                        for two reasons. Firstly, producing reliable and valid
                                        results and secondly, generalizing the findings of
                                        regression analysis to the research population. As commented
                                        by Pallant (2013) different authors tend to give different
                                        guidelines concerning the number of cases required for the
                                        regression analysis. One of the most practical criteria for
                                        the sample size is N > 50 + 8iv (where iv
                                        indicates the number of independent variables). If you have
                                        four variables you will need at least 82 respondents.

Worked Example 23.6
To illustrate the use of multiple regression, a customer
                                            satisfaction survey in the restaurant industry will be
                                            used as the dependent variable. Service quality and food
                                            quality are the two independent variables. The
                                            literature in this area suggests that if customers feel
                                            that they receive good quality service and food in a
                                            restaurant they are likely to be satisfied with the
                                            overall visit experience. In this example, we are
                                            interested in exploring how well the service quality and
                                            value for money are able to predict scores on a measure
                                            of overall satisfaction. Accordingly in this example two
                                            questions will be addressed
Q1. How well do service quality and food
                                                  quality predict overall visit satisfaction?Q2. Which is the best predictor of
                                                  overall visit satisfaction: service quality or
                                                  food quality?
The variables and measures used in this example are as
                                            follows. Overall visit satisfaction was measured by a
                                            7-point scale where (1) indicates extremely dissatisfied
                                            and (7) indicates extremely satisfied. The measures of service
                                            quality and food quality used two 7-point scales ranging
                                            from (1) being extremely poor to (7) being extremely
                                            good. The example covers only the use of Standard
                                            Multiple Regression for the purpose of simplicity and
                                            criticism that has been addressed at the use of Stepwise
                                            and Hierarchical Multiple Regression techniques
                                            (Pallant, 2013). These techniques can be explored by
                                            looking at other texts.
Go to the book's website at: https://study.sagepub.com/grayresearchbusiness
                                            and click on the button [Data sets]. Select the
                                            [Regression] data set. Once the data are opened in SPSS
                                            follow the next set of steps.
Click on [Regression], then click on [Analyze]
                                                  and then on [Linear].Click on your continuous dependent variable
                                                  (overall visit satisfaction) and then move it into
                                                  the [Dependent] box.
Click on the two independent variables: food
                                                  quality and service quality and move them into the
                                                  [Independent] box as shown in Figure 23.19
                                                  below.
Figure 23.19 Moving the independent
                                                  variables Food Quality and Service Quality into
                                                  the Independent variable boxReprint Courtesy of
                                                  International Business Machines Corporation,
                                                  © International Business Machines
                                                  Corporation
Make sure [Enter] is selected in the [Method]
                                                  section.Click on [Statistics] button. Tick the box
                                                  marked [Estimates, Confidence intervals, Model
                                                  fit, Descriptives, Part and Partial Correlations]
                                                  and [Collinearity Diagnostics].Then tick the [Casewise diagnostics] and
                                                  [Outliers outside 3 standard deviations] in the
                                                  [Residuals] section. Click on [Continue].Click on the [Options] button. Then under the
                                                  [Missing Values] section click on [Exclude cases
                                                  pairwise]. Click on [Continue].
Click on the [Plots] button.
Then click on [*ZRESID] and move this
                                                  to the [Y] box.Click on [*ZPRED] and move this to the
                                                  [X] box.Tick the [Normal probability plot] option
                                                  under the section of [Standardized Residual
                                                  Plots].
Click on [Continue].Click on the [Save] button. Then under the
                                                  [Distances] section tick the [Cook's] and
                                                  [Mahalanobis] box to identify multivariate
                                                  outliers. Click on [Continue].To complete the process click on [OK].
You should then see the output generated from this
                                            procedure as presented below.

Correlations





Model Summaryb


(a) Predictors:
                                                  (Constant), Service Quality, Food Quality
(b) Dependent
                                                  Variable: Overall Visit Satisfaction



Anovaa


a. Dependent
                                                  Variable: Overall Visit Satisfaction
b. Predictors:
                                                  (Constant), Service Quality, Food Quality




Coefficientsa


(a) Dependent
                                                  Variable: Overall Visit Satisfaction



Collinearity
                                                Diagnosticsa


(a) Dependent
                                                  Variable: Overall Visit Satisfaction



Casewise Diagnosticsa


(a) Dependent
                                                  Variable: Overall Visit Satisfaction



Residuals Statisticsa



(a) Dependent
                                                  Variable: Overall Visit Satisfaction

The procedure for interpreting these results is as
                                                follows.

Before we begin to interpret the regression
                                                  results, check if the data meets the linear
                                                  regression test assumptions. In doing so:
Look at the table labelled as
                                                  Correlations to find out Multicollinearity.
                                                  As the correlation between the two independent
                                                  variables (0.61) as well as the correlations
                                                  between the two independent variables and the
                                                  dependent variable (0.50 and 0.57) are not too
                                                  high, we can conclude that multicollinearity is
                                                  not a problem in the model. The SPSS programme
                                                  also produces collinearity diagnosis on the
                                                  variables as part of the multiple regression
                                                  procedure as shown in the table labelled
                                                  Coefficients. Two values are given in
                                                  relation to multicollinearity: Tolerance and VIF
                                                  (Variance Inflation Values). These values are
                                                  related to each other and therefore reporting one
                                                  of them (e.g. VIF) would be sufficient. If VIF
                                                  values are large (higher than 10), it would
                                                  indicate possibility of multicollinearity which is
                                                  not the case here as the VIF values in our
                                                  regression model (1.58) are well below the cut-off
                                                  value of 10.Check the normality, linearity and
                                                  outliers assumptions by inspecting the
                                                  residuals scatterplot and the normal
                                                  probability plot. No major deviations from
                                                  normality will be present if the plot lies as a
                                                  reasonably straight diagonal line from bottom left
                                                  to top right in the Normal Probability Plot which
                                                  is the case here. Linearity can be checked using
                                                  the scatterplot of the standardized
                                                  residuals. You would expect that the pattern
                                                  of residuals will be distributed roughly as
                                                  rectangular rather than curvilinear or higher on
                                                  one side than the other. Linearity seems to be
                                                  supported in this model by looking at the
                                                  scatterplot of the standardized residuals.
                                                  Finally, the presence of outliers can also be
                                                  detected by inspecting the scatterplot and the
                                                  table titled Casewise Diagnostics. This
                                                  illustrates information about cases that have
                                                  absolute standardized values above 3.0. Since in a
                                                  normally distributed sample we would expect only 1
                                                  per cent of cases to fall outside this range, and
                                                  there is only one case here, outliers therefore do
                                                  not cause concerns in this model.
To evaluate the success of the regression
                                                  model, look at the R-square in the Model
                                                  Summary box. This shows how much of the
                                                  variance in overall visit satisfaction is
                                                  explained by food quality and service quality. In
                                                  this case the value is 0.368 which means that
                                                  service quality and food quality explain 36.8 per
                                                  cent of the variance in overall visit
                                                  satisfaction. This is a good result. To assess the
                                                  statistical significance of the results it is
                                                  necessary to check the ANOVA statistics (F
                                                  = 115.967) table and the p-value (Sig = 0.000). As
                                                  can be seen from this example the model is
                                                  statistically significant at the 0.001 probability
                                                  level.The final step in interpreting the results of
                                                  the regression model is to determine which of the
                                                  independent variables contribute to the prediction
                                                  of the dependent variable. This information can be
                                                  found in the output box labelled
                                                  Coefficients. Although this table provides
                                                  a wide range of information, in order to compare
                                                  the contribution of independent variables in
                                                  predicting the dependent variable, check the
                                                  statistics under Beta in the
                                                  Standardized Coefficients column. In this
                                                  case, the largest beta value is 0.42 which is the
                                                  food quality. This is followed by service quality
                                                  (0.25). As can be seen from the t scores
                                                  and probability values, food quality (t =
                                                  8.460, Sig = 0.00) and service quality (t =
                                                  4.945, Sig = 0.00) are also statistically
                                                  significant at 0.005 probability level in
                                                  predicting overall visit satisfaction. These
                                                  statistics indicate each variable makes a
                                                  significant unique contribution to the prediction
                                                  of the dependent variable. The Beta value for
                                                  service quality is slightly lower (0.25),
                                                  indicating that it made less of a contribution.
                                                  You should note that absolute Beta values are used
                                                  when ranking the contribution ability of
                                                  independent variables in predicting the dependent
                                                  variable in regression analysis. The sign of the
                                                  Beta value (positive or negative) also indicates
                                                  the direction of the relationship (positive or
                                                  negative) between independent and dependent
                                                  variables which is similar to correlation
                                                  analysis. For more information about how to
                                                  interpret the findings of regression analysis you
                                                  can look into major statistics books in the
                                                  references provided at the end of the
                                                  chapter.







Summary
The selection of statistical tests should be made at the design
                                    stage of the research and not as an afterthought.Data can be classified into categorical data (which includes
                                    nominal and ordinal) and quantifiable data (which includes
                                    interval and ratio). The types of data yielded by a study will
                                    determine the kinds of analysis and statistical tests applied to
                                    them.Data may be presented descriptively through the use of pie
                                    charts, bar charts and histograms or through the use of
                                    descriptive statistics. The latter focus on themes such as the
                                    distribution of the data and its dispersion.Inferential statistics are used to draw conclusions from the
                                    data and involve the specification of a hypothesis and the
                                    selection of appropriate statistical tests.Some of the inherent danger in hypothesis testing is in making
                                    Type I errors (rejecting a hypothesis when it is, in fact, true)
                                    and Type II errors (accepting a hypothesis when it is
                                    false).For categorical data, non-parametric statistical tests can be
                                    used, but for quantifiable data, more powerful parametric tests
                                    need to be applied. Parametric tests usually require that the
                                    data are normally distributed.

Review Questions
What practical steps can be taken to avoid the degradation
                                        of data during the questionnaire design stage?Why is the use of parametric tests usually preferred to the
                                        use of non-parametric?In testing the safety of a drug, is it better to avoid a
                                        Type I or a Type II error? Why?What role does the Kolmogorov-Smirnov statistic play in
                                        choice of statistical tests? What other statistics can be
                                        used to supplement K-S?




Further Reading
Black, T. (2001) Evaluating Social Science Research, 2nd edn.
                            London: Sage. Provides a clearly written introduction to evaluating
                            research projects. The last chapter (in the second edition) contains a
                            very useful introduction to using Excel as a data analysis tool.
Fielding, J. and Gilbert, N. (2006) Understanding Social
                                Statistics, 2nd edn. London: Sage. Comprehensive and clearly
                            articulated. Illustrates how to perform statistical calculations using
                            SPSS.
Hosker, I. (2002) Social Statistics: Data Analysis in Social Science
                                Explained. Taunton: Studymates. A very short and simple text for
                            those truly terrified by statistics.
Pallant, J. (2013) SPSS Survival Manual, 5th edn. Maidenhead:
                            OUP/McGraw-Hill. Now a standard text, largely because it is so clear and
                            user-friendly.
Wetcher-Hendricks, D. (2011) Analyzing Quantitative Data: An
                                Introduction for Social Researchers. Hoboken, NJ: Wiley. Guides
                            readers through the essentials of data analysis including organizing raw
                            data to using descriptive statistics and tests of significance.


Journal Resources
Cashen, L.H. and Geiger, S.W. (2004) 'Statistical power and the
                            testing of null hypotheses: A review of contemporary management research
                            and recommendations for future studies', Orgnizational
                                Research Methods, 7(2): 151-167. Reports on a study that
                            seeks to determine how well contemporary management research fares on
                            the issue of statistical power with regard to studies specifically
                            predicting null relationships between phenomena of interest. Discusses
                            Type I and Type II errors.
Newman, D.A. (2014) 'Missing data: Five practical
                            guidelines', Organizational Research Methods, 17(4):
                            372-411. Provides a user-friendly review of missing data problems
                            and five easy-to-understand practical guidelines for reducing missing
                            data bias and error in the reporting of research results.
Russo, F. (2011) 'Correlational data, causal hypotheses, and
                            validity', Journal for General Philosophy of Science,
                            42(1): 85-107. Discusses how to make sense of correlational data
                            coming from observations and/or from experiments, and how to establish
                            when correlations are causal and when they are not.

Don't forget to visit the companion website at https://study.sagepub.com/grayresearchbusiness for the
                                following resources which support this chapter:


















24 Getting Started With Nvivo

Chapter Introduction

Chapter Outline
About NVivoUsing this chapterGetting around the NVivo workspaceLinking to internal and external sourcesExploring nodes and codingExploring node classifications and attributesExploring dataGetting started on a projectDeveloping ideas: Journals, memos, annotations and
                                        linksAnalysing visual data


Keywords
Qualitative dataQualitative data analysisNVivoCoding



Icon Key







Author Video







Chapter Objectives
After reading this chapter you will be able to:
Explore and navigate the NVivo interface.Create a new project.Load internal and external documents.Code text-based and visual data.Create reports.



Most of this chapter is devoted to developing an understanding of how to
                            use NNivo as an important tool for qualitative data analysis. However,
                            at the end of the day, that is precisely what it is - a tool. The
                            principles of qualitative analysis have to be applied by the researcher,
                            with NVivo used to implement those principles. As Jones (2007) comments,
                            the goal of qualitative data analysis is to:

deconstruct blocks of data through fragmentation and then have them
                                coalesce into collections of categories which relate conceptually
                                and theoretically, and which make assumptions about the phenomenon
                                being studied.

In doing this, it is worth reflecting that qualitative research is
                            fundamentally about cases - although the opposite is not true,
                            since case study research can include both qualitative and quantitative
                            approaches (recall Chapter 11). In qualitative
                            research, data are collected about cases and analysed by case. Take, for
                            example, a study that seeks to understand how small and medium-sized
                            enterprises go about new product development. One aspect of the research
                            design might be the launch of a quantitative, national survey; but,
                            typically, the qualitative element might comprise, say, 20, in-depth
                            case studies of individual firms. Qualitative data analysis would
                            explore similarities across the firms (cases) and also look for
                            differences in phenomena. Cases, however, are embedded in a broader
                            context, so qualitative data analysis often involves investigating the
                            inter-relationship between each case and its broader setting. NVivo is a
                            useful tool for both storing qualitative data, but also uncovering and
                            linking themes within and across cases.


About Nvivo
NVivo is a software program that assists in the coding of
                            qualitative data. It will not magically produce results for researchers
                            who have little clue as to how to go about qualitative analysis. It
                            will, however, provide a range of tools and functions for managing,
                            exploring and finding patterns in data from questionnaires, interview
                            transcripts, focus groups and secondary data sources. It can also help
                            in the analysis of audio and video recordings and digital photographs.
                            Such flexibility and functionality, however, comes with a price. Like
                            any software program, it takes time and patience to learn. Note the
                            chapter heading: Getting started with NVivo. It is a basic guide
                            only. After reading it you should consult some of the texts recommended
                            in Further Reading, below.



Introducing NVivo




Top Tip 24.1
Before turning to any qualitative analysis program, read your
                                transcripts thoroughly. If you have fewer than, say, 10 relatively
                                short transcripts, you may decide to code them manually. As the
                                number and length of transcripts increases, the need for NVivo
                                becomes more compelling.
You may gain access to NVivo in two ways:
Institutional support. You may work or study in an
                                        institution or organization that pays for an NVivo licence.
                                        You may, however, have to use the program in a computer
                                        laboratory, or be limited to the installation of the
                                        software on one, office computer.Buying the software. You can purchase the software from QSR
                                        International, the owners and developers of NVivo at: www.qsrinternational.com



Top Tip: Getting Started with NVivo





Using This Chapter
It is recommended that, in using this chapter, you work through each
                            section, making use of the Sample Project provided with NVivo. Work
                            through each of the Activities, so that you become familiar with using
                            the NVivo program. In discussing how to use NVivo, we are going to use
                            the following conventions:
Bold italic font for the ribbon (menu) and
                                        italics for the supplementary tabs.Italics for the main interfaces (Navigation,
                                        List View and Detail View).A bold font is used when navigating the interfaces, e.g.
                                        Sources > Internals > Literature.Bold font and brackets for buttons you click in dialogue boxes,
                                    e.g. [Values] or tabs, e.g. [Word Cloud]A bold italic font is used for items such as
                                    filenames, for example: SampleProject.nvp and data
                                    files such as Nodes > People >
                                        Barbara.
We will be making use of a number of key concepts including:
Sources. These comprise your research materials including
                                    interview transcripts, audio and video files, photographs and
                                    memos.Coding. This is the process of organizing data by topic,
                                    theme or case.Nodes. These are containers for your coding - they
                                    allow you to collect related material into one place so that you
                                    can explore for patterns and ideas. There are many ways of
                                    making nodes.Case classifications. These allow you to keep
                                    (demographic) information about people such as respondents,
                                    places or other cases.
Note there are three editions of NVivo - NVivo 11 Starter for
                            Windows, NVivo 11 Pro for Windows and NVivo 11 Plus for Windows. In this
                            chapter we will be using NVivo 11 Plus for Windows.


Getting Around The Nvivo Workspace

Launch And The Initial Screen
Launch NVivo, after which you will see the screen as presented at Figure 24.1.
Figure 24.1
                                    NVivo11 initial screenNVivo, version 11 Plus for Windows,
                                    2015
Note that from here we can either open a New > Blank
                                    Project (which you then name), or use Open Other
                                    Project to launch an existing one. Clicking Help
                                takes you to a screen that includes: Introducing NVivo,
                                    Get up and running, and Analyze your source
                                    material. There is also a link to Video tutorials.
                                This version of NVivo contains a QSR Forum with help and advice from
                                members of the NVivo community.
In using this chapter, we are going to make use of the sample NVivo
                                project so, at the initial screen, click on Sample
                                Project.
Then click on Sources > Internals
                                        > Overview of Sample Project.Then click on Internals > Area and
                                            Township.
The NVivo workspace contains a number of functional areas and
                                navigation tools, each of which is defined next (and illustrated in
                                    Figure 24.2).
Ribbon. The ribbon contains nine tabs (drop down
                                        menus), including Home, Create
                                        and Analyze. For each item in the ribbon are
                                        supplementary tabs. Figure 24.2 illustrates the Home tab which comes
                                        with groups such as Properties, Edit and
                                            Select.Navigation View. Navigation View lets you
                                        access different components of the project including
                                            Sources, Nodes and Classifications
                                        and to store Queries. We will discuss what each of
                                        these means later.List View. List View provides a list of
                                        contents of a folder.Detail View. Detail View shows the content of
                                        an open item and is where much of the work takes place
                                        including examining the data and coding, linking and
                                        memoing.Find bar. The Find bar allows you to conduct searches
                                        for sources such as documents, videos, pictures and
                                        datasets.
We will now explore some of the key features of NVivo using a number
                                of Activities. It is strongly suggested that you do these Activities
                                in order to familiarize yourself with the functionality of the
                                program.
Figure 24.2
                                    Overview of the NVivo11 WorkspaceNVivo, version 11 Plus for Windows,
                                    2015


View An Internal Document
Documents include transcripts from interviews, questionnaires, audio
                                and video files, journal articles, conference papers and web
                                sites.

Activity 24.1
In Sources click on Internals. In List
                                                View, double-click on Overview of Sample
                                                Project which will open the document in
                                                Detail View (see Figure 24.2,
                                            above).



View A Project Interview
A project interview can comprise text, pictures or video.

Activity 24.2
In Sources, click on Interviews. You will
                                            see that in List View, a number of names
                                            appear.Double-click on the name Barbara to open the
                                            interview transcript in Detail View.Then double-click on Betty and Paul to see a
                                            video recording of an interview. To watch the video,
                                            click Play on Media ribbon. You
                                            will see a screen as presented at Figure 24.3.To close Betty and Paul (and other sources) click
                                            on the [x] against the file name 'Betty and
                                            Paul' between the Find bar and Detail
                                            View.
Figure
                                            24.3 Viewing a project interviewNVivo, version 11 Plus for Windows,
                                        2015



View A Survey
NVivo can be used to analyse surveys that contain both closed and
                                open-ended questions.

Activity 24.3
In Navigation View, click on Sources >
                                                Internals > Survey.In List View double-click on Survey
                                                Responses. You will see a screen as presented in
                                                Figure 24.4. This
                                            is in Table view.Scroll across the dataset columns and notice that
                                            several contain open-ended comments.Click on the tab on the right margin of Detailed
                                                View to see the data in Form view. You
                                            will see that the data is presented case by case.
Figure
                                            24.4 Viewing an internal data setNVivo, version 11 Plus for Windows,
                                        2015




View Social Media Data
NVivo provides you with the NCapture application that allows you to
                                import web pages and pdfs, Facebook wall posts and comments, YouTube
                                videos and comments, Tweets (that include a particular word, phrase
                                or hashtag, or Tweets by a particular user) and LinkedIn group
                                discussions.

Activity 24.4
In Navigation View, select Sources >
                                                Internals > Social Media.In List View, double-click on CartaretCounty
                                                on Twitter. You will see a screen as presented
                                            at Figure 24.5.
Figure
                                            24.5 Viewing Twitter feedsNVivo, version 11 Plus for Windows,
                                        2015




Linking To Internal And External Sources
NVivo offers considerable flexibility when it comes to navigating around
                            the data, including links to both internal and external sources. If you
                            import documents that contain hyperlinks, these will be available within
                            NVivo. You can also add your own hyperlinks to documents, externals and
                            memos.


Hyperlinks To External Items

Activity 24.5
In Navigation View, click on Sources >
                                                Internals. In List View, double-click on
                                                Overview of Sample Project. You will see a
                                            screen as presented at Figure 24.2,
                                            above.Blue, underlined text such as Duke University Nicholas School of the
                                                Environment is a hyperlink that will take you
                                            to an external web site. (Note that these links in the
                                            sample project are for illustration and are not
                                            'live'.)



'See Also' Links To Internal
                                Sources

Activity 24.6
'see also' helps you to draw connections
                                    between sources in your project, enabling you to, for example,
                                    point to connections, contradictions or sequences of events.
Still using the Detail View from Activity 24.5,
                                            scroll down to find pink highlighted text. This
                                            indicates that a see also link has been
                                            created.On the ribbon, click on View.In the Links group, ✓ the See Also
                                                Links box. The internal linked items then appear
                                            at the foot of the screen. You will see a screen as
                                            presented at Figure 24.6.Click on the linked item to see its original
                                            source.
Figure
                                            24.6 Linking from internal sourcesNVivo, version 11 Plus for Windows,
                                        2015




Annotations On Text
Annotations let you record comments, reminders or observations about
                                specific content in a source or node. Annotations are highlighted in
                                blue and the text of the annotation is displayed in the
                                        Annotations tab at the bottom of the
                                window.

Activity 24.7
Scroll down to find blue highlighted text, Responses
                                                from the interviews.... which indicates
                                            that annotations have been made.In the Links group, ✓ the
                                                Annotations box. You will see a screen as
                                            presented at Figure 24.7.
Figure
                                            24.7 Linking to annotationsNVivo, version 11 Plus for Windows,
                                        2015



Linked Memos
You create memos to help record ideas and interpretations of your
                                data as you progress through the analysis process. They enable you
                                to keep your analysis separate (but linked to) your source
                                material.You can create memos for:
Sources - to capture issues or insights that
                                        arise.Nodes - to describe the significance of a node
                                        and the patterns or ideas that emerge.'Unlinked' memos to store information about
                                        your project such as research questions or reminders of
                                        things to do.


Activity 24.8
To view an example of memos:
In Navigation View, click on Sources >
                                                Internals > InterviewsGo to List View.Hover (or hold the mouse pointer) over
                                            'Ken', right-click and select Memo Link
                                                > Open Linked Memo. You will see a screen
                                            as presented at Figure 24.8.
Note that you can view all memos in the Memos folder in
                                        Navigation View
> Sources > Memos.
Figure
                                            24.8 Linking to memosNVivo, version 11 Plus for Windows,
                                        2015




Exploring Nodes And Coding
Nodes are made for each concept, theme, place, person or idea that you
                            find in your data. You can then store references to the coded data (from
                            interviews, focus groups, articles, pictures, etc.) in the relevant
                            node.

Nodes For Concepts And Categories Coded From The
                                Data

Activity 24.9
You can view nodes and sub-nodes and the data they are linked
                                    to:
In Navigation View, click on Nodes.In List View, click on the + next to
                                                Attitude to show the sub-nodes beneath it.Double-click on the sub-node Positive to see the
                                            coded data in Detail View.To view the context from which the passage came:
                                                Right click > Coding Context >
                                                Broad. You will see a screen as presented at Figure 24.9.
Figure
                                            24.9 Nodes with referenced textNVivo, version 11 Plus for Windows,
                                        2015



Exploring Links From Nodes
You can also explore links from nodes such as memos and 'see
                                also' links.

Activity 24.10
In Navigation View, click on Nodes.In List View, click on the + next to
                                                Sense of Community Down East to show the
                                            sub-nodes beneath it.Hover (or hold the mouse pointer) over Local
                                                identity, right-click and select Memo Link
                                                > Open Linked Memo to see the notes made
                                            about this sub-node. You will see a screen as presented
                                            at Figure 24.10. Note
                                            that some notes are shaded pink, indicating the presence
                                            of 'see also' links.
Figure
                                            24.10 Exploring links from nodes to notes and
                                        'see also' linksNVivo, version 11 Plus for Windows,
                                        2015




Using Nodes To Organize And Manage Data
In Navigation View, the sub-folders under Nodes contain
                                the project's data. Hence, under People you
                                will see data for each individual interview. Under Autocoded
                                    Responses, you will see the responses for each individual
                                interview question.



Coding with NVivo



Activity 24.11
In Navigation View, select Nodes >
                                                Cases > People and in List View,
                                            click the + sign next to Interview
                                                Participants. Double-click on Barbara to
                                            see her interview responses. Note the blue hyperlink
                                                Internals\Interviews\Barbara which takes you
                                            to the source of the coding; beside this is the number
                                            of references (i.e. passages) coded and a percentage of
                                            the sources that this coding represents.Click on the View ribbon and then on
                                                Coding Stripes > Nodes Most
                                                Coding to see the nodes coded the most for this
                                            case (see Figure 24.11).
                                            Hover the mouse or right click over the stripe marked
                                            Coding Density to see a list of all the nodes
                                            coded.
Figure
                                            24.11 Coding stripes showing nodes codedNVivo, version 11 Plus for Windows,
                                        2015



People allows you to look at data for each individual
                                interview. Now, under Autocoded Responses, you will see the
                                responses for each individual interview question.

Activity 24.12
In Nodes select Autocoded Responses. In
                                                List View click on the + next to
                                                Autocoded Interview Questions to expand
                                            it.Double-click on Q.1 Connection to Down East. You
                                            will see all the responses to Question 1, starting with
                                            Barbara but covering all 11 respondents.





Exploring Case Classifications And Attributes
A node is a collection of references about a specific case, theme, or
                            relationship. Sources (e.g. interview data) are coded to a node. When
                            you open the node (by double-clicking it in List View) you can
                            see all the references to that node in one place. Theme nodes (e.g
                            illegal fishing) comprise the themes and topics from your source
                            material. These may be set up in advance (a priori), emerging from your
                            literature search on a subject, or they may emerge from the data
                            (NVivo), or both. Case nodes represent people, places, events,
                            organizations or other entities that you want to analyse and compare.
                            Cases are the essential unit of analysis in NVivo. Case nodes differ
                            from theme nodes in that they are associated with attributes (variables)
                            such as demographic data (age, gender, location, workplace, etc.).
                            Setting up a case involves:
Creating a case node.Classifying the case node (as a person, organization, place,
                                    etc.) and assigning attributes.Coding relevant content at the case node.
Most projects have only one type of case: individual participants, where
                            a particular section of text is coded to the individual's case
                            node. But there can also be multiple levels of analysis, for example,
                            where text is coded to case nodes classified as individuals, the
                            departments they work in, and organization. So the same text might be
                            coded to more than one case node, with each case classification being
                            associated with different sets of attributes. Figure
                                24.12 shows a case node classified as 'person'
                            with attributes relating to age, gender and workplace; theme nodes
                            generated from the data include motivation, job satisfaction, etc.
Figure 24.12
                                Nodes, classifications and attributesNVivo, version 11 Plus for Windows, 2015


Making Case Nodes
Coding to existing nodes:

Activity 24.13
In Navigation View, click on Nodes >
                                                Autocoded Responses.In List View, click on the + next to
                                                Autocoded Interview Questions.In List View, double-click on Q1 Connection to
                                                Down East.In Detail View, tag a segment of text.
                                            Right-click and select Code (see Figure 24.13).Select one or more existing node (if you want to code to
                                            multiple nodes).
Figure
                                            24.13 Coding to existing nodesNVivo, version 11 Plus for Windows,
                                        2015


Activity 24.14
Coding to new nodes:
In Navigation View, click on Nodes.In List View, click on the + next to
                                                Autocoded Interview Questions.In List View, double-click on Q1 Connection to
                                                Down East.In Detail View, tag a segment of text.
                                            Right-click and select Code. Type in the name of
                                            the new node as at Figure 24.14.
Figure
                                            24.14 Naming a new nodeNVivo, version 11 Plus for Windows,
                                        2015



Working With Attributes

Activity 24.15
In Navigation View, select Nodes >
                                                Cases > People.In List View, click on the + next to
                                                Interview Participants. On
                                                Barbara, Right-click > Case
                                                Properties. In the Case Properties
                                            dialogue box, click on the [Attribute Values]
                                            tab. You will see a screen as presented at Figure 24.15. You
                                            will see that the attributes assigned to the respondents
                                            in this study include their location, gender, age, and
                                            opinion about the pace of development.
Figure
                                            24.15 Attribute values assigned to a nodeNVivo, version 11 Plus for Windows,
                                        2015




Working With Classifications
As we have indicated, classifications are holders for different sets
                                of attributes. Hence, each person in the project has a case node
                                (see Nodes > Cases > People > Interview
                                    Participants) which is classified and which has attributes
                                attached (as in Figure 24.15, above). Note also
                                there are place classifications: Carteret County. So some
                                attributes will be linked to people (e.g. age, gender, etc.) and
                                some to places (e.g., average tax value, total population,
                                etc.).

Activity 24.16
In Navigation View, go to Classifications
                                                > Case Classifications. You will see that
                                            the data has been classified by Person
                                            (participant) and locations where participants
                                            live.Click + next to Person to see a list of
                                            attributes associated with participants. Double-click on
                                            an attribute, and then on the Values tab to see
                                            the underlying values. For example, for
                                            Community, you will see the Values comprise place
                                            names.



Attribute values can be viewed or modified in
                                Classifications.

Activity 24.17
In Navigation View, go to Classifications
                                                > Case ClassificationsSelect Person and Right-click > Open
                                                Classification Sheet. To fill or change an
                                            individual value in a cell, go to the cell and click the
                                            drop-down list. For example, in Figure 24.16, Helen
                                            has been assigned to the community Otway, but this can
                                            be changed to one of the other locations listed.
Figure
                                            24.16 Changing attributes for an individual cell
                                        using Case ClassificationsNVivo, version 11 Plus for Windows,
                                        2015




Exploring Data
Having imported and organized the data, NVivo offers a number of ways for
                            exploring the data, including exploring sets, conducting queries, and
                            the creation of maps.

Exploring Sets
Sets are a useful way of grouping together sources or nodes
                                without actually merging them. You can create an empty set and then
                                add items to it, or you can create a set based on selected project
                                items. Sets are stored under Collections.


Activity 24.18
In Navigation View, select Collections.
                                            You will see a list of Sets including
                                                Community nodes and Interviews for coding
                                                comparison.



Exploring Queries
Queries offer a flexible approach to exploring your data,
                                allowing you to create quick and simple queries to get a sense of
                                what is happening in the data. Queries might be about the frequency
                                of certain words, about patterns of coding, making comparisons
                                between groups, or a combination of these. Data from Queries
                                are stored in Results.

Activity 24.19
In Navigation View, select Queries.In List View, scroll down the list and
                                                Right-click on Word Frequency Query in
                                                  interviews.Left-click on Run Query and see the results in
                                                Detail View. You will see a screen as
                                            presented at Figure 24.17.Still in the [Summary] tab, double-click on a
                                            word to see all the instances of the word found by the
                                            query.
Figure
                                            24.17 Running a query for word frequencyNVivo, version 11 Plus for Windows,
                                        2015



Other tabs on the right-hand side of the data tables allow you to
                                view the results in alternative ways, for example word clouds.


Activity 24.20
Click on the tag [Word Cloud]. You will see a
                                            screen as presented at Figure 24.18. Note
                                            that you can generate different colour combinations by
                                            clicking on the snapshot versions at the top left of the
                                            screen.
Figure
                                            24.18 Generating a Word CloudNVivo, version 11 Plus for Windows,
                                        2015



Matrix queries are one of the most useful functions of NVivo
                                and allow you to find a combination of items (usually nodes and
                                attributes) and display the results in a table. For example, you
                                might be interested in what businesses in different sectors say
                                about alternative energy. Results can be saved in the Nodes
                                    Matrices folder.

Activity 24.21
To conduct a matrix query:
On the ribbon, click on Query > Query
                                                Wizard.Click on Cross-tabulate how content is coded and
                                            then click on [Next].Click [Add Selected Items] to add a row/column
                                            that represents a specific node, source, case or other
                                            project item.Click [Add Attribute Condition] to add a
                                            row/column that represents all the sources or cases that
                                            meet specific attribute value criteria.Choose whether you want to search text in all your
                                            sources, or restrict the search to selected items or
                                                folders.Choose whether you want to run the query just once or
                                            add it to your project (and run it).Click [Run].
For an example of the results of running a matrix query, see Figure 24.19.
Figure
                                            24.19 Output from a matrix queryNVivo, version 11 Plus for Windows,
                                        2015



Exploring Maps
Maps offers a way of visually exploring or presenting the data
                                in your project, illustrating the relationship between items.

Activity 24.22
In Navigation View, select Maps.
                                            Double-click on complexity of views on
                                                  development. You will see a screen as
                                            presented at Figure 24.20.
Figure
                                            24.20 Maps of project illustrating relationship
                                        between itemsNVivo, version 11 Plus for Windows,
                                        2015





Getting Started On A Project
So far we have used the sample NVivo project Environmental Change
                                    Down East to explore the functionality of NVivo. It is
                            suggested that for the remainder of this chapter you make use of your
                            own data so that you can begin to practise creating a project,
                            organizing, coding and reflecting on your data.



Using NVivo in Business



Creating A New Project
To create a new project, go to the NVivo initial screen.

Activity 24.23
Click on [Blank Project] after which you will see a
                                    dialogue box as in Figure 24.21.
Figure
                                            24.21 New Project dialogue boxNVivo, version 11 Plus for Windows,
                                        2015



In the Title box, enter a name for the project. The NVivo file
                                associated with this project will be called [The title you
                                        have chosen].nvp. While entering a
                                description of the project is optional, it is suggested that you do
                                this. When you have chosen a title and created a description, click
                                    [OK].

Top Tip 24.2
The New Project dialogue box also gives you a
                                        [Browse] button. This allows you to save all your
                                            NVivo (.nvp) files to a specific folder.
                                    It is suggested that you create a folder for all of your NVivo
                                    data files or files based upon the names of your various
                                    research projects. You can then back these up regularly to the
                                    cloud or to an external hard drive.




Creating A Conceptual Framework
Before embarking on the coding process, a useful step is to generate
                                a conceptual framework (mind map) that describes your project.
                                Recall Figure 7.1 which illustrates a
                                conceptual map on airline safety, showing a hypothesized
                                relationship between variables. For your NVivo project, it may be
                                that you are unable to do this because you simply do not know how
                                the variables interrelate - or indeed, what your variables
                                are. However, you may have completed a literature review which has
                                suggested some concepts and their interrelationships. NVivo allows
                                you to draw on these. The conceptual framework gives you a roadmap
                                of where you might be going with the analysis. Note that mind maps
                                offer a planned framework for your project; maps of the project (Figure 24.22) provide an
                                overview of relationships in your data. Mind maps (plans) and maps
                                (data analysis outcomes) may turn out to be similar, but the
                                analysis process may result in important shifts.

Activity 24.24
In the ribbon, click on Explore >
                                                Maps > Mind Maps.In the dialogue box, insert the name of your mind map
                                            and click on [OK].In the bubble enter your first theme node; to enter
                                            child nodes, click on Mind Map Tools > Child
                                                idea.
You can create the kind of conceptual framework as presented at
                                        Figure 24.22.
Figure
                                            24.22 Creating a conceptual framework using mind
                                        mapsNVivo, version 11 Plus for Windows,
                                        2015



Importing And Viewing Data
As we have seen, data can include articles, transcripts from
                                interviews, field notes, audio files or photographs. NVivo is
                                sufficiently flexible to import media in a variety of formats.


Top Tip 24.3
When NVivo imports a file it does so by making a copy of it. On
                                    the plus side, your original file remains unchanged so it
                                    remains as a backup. On the downside, file size can increase
                                    rapidly. Make sure that you are working with a computer with
                                    sufficient hard drive space.


Activity 24.25
In Navigation View, click on Sources
                                            > Internals.Right-click on the white space in List View and
                                            click on Import.Select the type of file to be imported (for example,
                                                Documents, Videos, Pictures).
                                            Click on [Browse] to locate it. Select the chosen
                                            file, click on [Open > OK].



Coding And Making Nodes
A code is a word or phrase that ascribes a label to a segment of
                                text-based or visual data. The coding process involves reading,
                                reflecting, coding, annotating, memoing, and linking, with the
                                results of these processes recorded as nodes, memos, journals and
                                models (Bazeley and Jackson, 2013). The way you code will depend on
                                your methodology and approach to data analysis, but essentially you
                                will be coding in one or more of the following ways:
Topic coding - what is the main theme? For example,
                                        job security, entrepreneurship, eco-tourism.Analytical coding - what is the content about? What
                                        themes (for example, concepts identified during your
                                        literature search) does it address? For example, your
                                        transcript may contain material on someone's life
                                        story, but you may choose to code it under a theme
                                        'changing identity', since identity formation
                                        is a concept you read about in the academic literature.Descriptive or 'case' coding - who is
                                        speaking? What happened? How did the event unfold?
For the vital analytical process, it is important at an early stage
                                to go beyond descriptive coding and to develop key analytical themes
                                through identifying patterns in the data. It may help here if you
                                select a source (e.g. transcript) that is fairly typical or
                                representative of the theme(s) being explored. When coding, each
                                paragraph of text may be tagged with multiple codes. After creating
                                nodes, you may then develop the analysis by recombining coded
                                passages with new nodes that represent new themes.


Preparing To Code

Activity 24.26
In Navigation View, select Sources >
                                                Internals.In List View, double-click an internal to open
                                            it.In Navigation View, select Nodes.




Making A Node With Coding

Activity 24.27
Select the text to be coded.

Right-click > Code Selection > Code
                                                Selection At New Node.
Type a Name for the new node. Add a
                                                Description for the node and enter
                                                [OK].



Making A Node Without Coding
It is also possible to create a node without having any data -
                                this can be added later. For example, ideas for nodes might be
                                generated when reviewing the literature on the subject.

Activity 24.28
In List View (in the space beneath existing
                                            nodes): Right-click > New Node.Type a Name for the new node. Add a
                                                Description for the node and enter
                                                [OK].



Code Text To Existing Nodes

Activity 24.29
In Detail View, highlight the passage to be
                                            coded.Right-click > Code. Hold the Ctrl key if
                                            you want to select more than one node OR drag the
                                            selected text to the existing node in List View.
                                            The text will remain highlighted if you want to code it
                                            at more than one node.



Removing Or Merging Codes

Activity 24.30
If you have made an error or just wish to remove a code:
Select the text, Right-click >
                                            Uncode.
If you have made two nodes about the same theme, or if two nodes
                                    seem too similar, you can merge nodes.
Right-click > Cut, then select the other
                                            node > Right-click > Merge into
                                                Selected Node > OK.



Top Tip 24.4
You can and should (of course, where relevant) code
                                            content at multiple nodes.If you find an interesting word, phrase or theme in one
                                            interview, on the ribbon menu click Query
                                            > Text Search query to see if it appears
                                            in another. If it does, you can then code the
                                            content.You may not need to code all interviews. If, say, having
                                            worked through 12 interviews you are not finding new
                                            themes or ideas, you may have reached
                                            'saturation'.




Developing Ideas: Journals, Memos, Annotations And
                            Links
As you explore your data, ideas will occur to you that you will want to
                            keep track of. This might include comments on a particular source or
                            node, or thoughts about how particular sources or nodes are linked.
                            NVivo helps you to do this by creating journals, memos or
                            annotations.

Creating A Journal
A journal is a place to note down thoughts, ideas and reflections. In
                                contrast to creating memos or annotations, journals help to record
                                thoughts about the project as a whole and how it is developing.
                                These reflections might help in the data analysis process itself,
                                but equally they might be a part of a reflexive stance, examining
                                personal assumptions and goals (which may or may not be made
                                explicit in the analytical process). A journal is created within the
                                    Memos folder.

Activity 24.31
Open Navigation View > Sources
                                            > Memos. In List View,
                                                Right-click > New Memo.Name the memo: Reflective Journal,
                                            and click [OK].



Creating A Linked Memo
Memos are like adding a note or comment in a document's
                                margins. They let you record comments, observations or reminders
                                about the content of a source or node. In addition, you can also use
                                'see also' links to draw connections between items in
                                your project, such as highlighting contradictions in the data or
                                showing a sequence of events. The most useful 'see
                                also' links are between passages within sources and memos
                                reflecting on those.


Activity 24.32
To create a memo that is linked to a source or node:
In List View, select the source or node.On the Analyze tab click Memo Link
                                            > Link to New Memo. The New Memo dialogue
                                            box opens.In Name, enter the name of your memo. You may
                                            also enter a brief description in the Description
                                            box.Click [OK]. A box opens in which you can type
                                            your memo.



Creating An Annotation

Activity 24.33
In List View, double click on a Source or
                                                Node to open it. Select some text that you
                                            want to comment on.On the Analyze tab click on Annotations
                                                > New Annotation.In the Annotations tab at the bottom of Detail
                                                View, enter the annotation.
A summary of the functions of journals, memos, links and
                                    annotations is provided in Table
                                        24.1.


Source: Adapted from Bazeley
                                        and Jackson, 2013





Analysing Visual Data
In Chapter 20 we noted the growing
                            importance of visual methods in research. NVivo provides you with the
                            tools to conduct an analysis of visual data including audio, video
                            files, photographs and web pages. As Bazeley and Jackson (2013) advise,
                            it is important to decide at an early stage whether these non-text media
                            should be an important focus in their own right, or simply as a
                            supplement to the analysis of text. Using visual material requires a
                            greater degree of effort compared to conducting the analysis thoroughly using text-based
                            transcripts. In this section we are going to focus on the analysis of
                            visual images such as photographs and web pages. For guidance on
                            analysing audio and video refer to Bazeley and Jackson (2013) or Help in
                            NVivo.

Analysing Images
Images include photographs, drawings, maps, and company logos.
                                Sometimes these might be accompanied by interview transcripts (for
                                example through photo-elicitation, as described in Chapter 20). NVivo offers a
                                number of approaches to the analysis of images through linking to
                                them, or through importing the image. Text comments can be added to
                                images, and the images or portions of them (and the text) coded.

Linking To Images
Linking to images can be done in three ways.
Hyperlinks. We saw in the section Linking
                                            to internal and external sources, above, that it is
                                            possible to link from documents, externals and memos to
                                            an item outside of the NVivo project. Hence an image
                                            might have a connection to text within a transcript, for
                                            example, where a respondent describes a photograph they
                                            took of an office meeting. To create a hyperlink, follow
                                            the instructions in Activity 24.5. One of the advantages
                                            of doing this is that the images do not take up storage
                                            space within the project, but the link can become
                                            broken.Embed in a text-based source. Another
                                            approach is to embed the image in a Word document
                                                (Insert > Picture). The entire
                                            image can then be coded to a node. However, a
                                            disadvantage is that specific sections of the image
                                            cannot be coded. It's either the entire image or
                                            nothing.As a standalone imported source. One of
                                            the advantages of importing the image as a standalone
                                            internal is that sections of the image can be coded
                                            separately. However, of the three approaches, this is
                                            the most complicated. Having imported a photo you can
                                            analyse it by creating a log (to record ideas and
                                            comments), or use your pointer to select a region for
                                            coding or annotating. You may want to store your images
                                            in a named folder within the Internals area.


Importing A Picture

Activity 24.34
In Navigation View, select Sources
                                                  > Internals > [your media
                                                  folder].In List View
Right-click (in the white space in List View)
                                                  > Import > Import
                                                pictures.The Import Sources dialogue box will open.
                                                Browse to locate the file needed, then
                                                [Open].
To see all pictures as a gallery, in List View,
                                            Right-click > List View > change
                                        the display to Medium Thumbnails.



Adding A Comment To The Image
You may want to add a comment such as a memo link, annotation or
                                    log to the image.
To add a memo link follow the steps in Creating a linked
                                            memo, above.To add an annotation follow the steps in Creating an
                                            annotation, above.


Activity 24.35
To create a log, ensure that you are in edit mode.
Move the cursor diagonally to select part of the
                                                image.Place the cursor inside the selected area
                                                  > Right-click > Insert
                                                Row.Add text to the Content field.



Coding An Image Or Its Log
The principles of coding an image or its log are much the same as
                                    for coding a text-based transcript such as the generating of
                                    nodes, memos and links. The difference is that parts of the
                                    image or log may be selected for coding.



Images in NVivo


To code an image, drag diagonally across it to select the target
                                    region, then drag the region to any node you want to add as the
                                    code.
To code a log, select all or part of the text in the log and code
                                    as for any text.



Analysing Web Pages
As we saw in Chapter 21 on the analysis of
                                secondary data, businesses now present an image of themselves to the
                                world via their website and through social media. Hence, a research
                                project might focus on the analysis of how companies present
                                themselves through these media, their self-branding, business
                                strategy or website functionality. NVivo allows you to capture and
                                import web pages through the software application NCapture, which
                                installs when you install the NVivo program. NCapture can produce
                                pdfs of web pages as well as datasets of social media platforms such
                                as Facebook, LinkedIn and Twitter. Note that NCapture is installed
                                for use with Internet Explorer (IE) only. To use, for example,
                                Google Chrome, you will need to install the NCapture add-in through
                                the Chrome web store.

Capturing Web Pages
To create a pdf of a web page ensure you can locate the NCapture
                                    icon on the Command bar in IE. It should have installed when you
                                    installed NVivo. Otherwise you can locate it via the drop down
                                    menu: Tools/Ncapture for Nvivo, or go to the QSR
                                    International website at: www.qsrinternational.com
Note that NVivo Help provides additional guidance on using
                                    NCapture.

Activity 24.36
Navigate to the web page you want to copy.Click the [NCapture] button on the IE
                                                toolbar. The Capture for NVivo screen will display
                                                for you to make your selection about the output (see
                                                  Figure
                                                24.23).To capture the webpage click on Source type:
                                                  Web page as PDF.At Source name, add a name for the page.At Description and Memo you can add
                                                further details.At Code at Nodes, add nodes for coding. Note,
                                                however, that the entire page will be coded at these
                                                nodes, not segments of the page.
The file will be saved into the default location
                                            NCapture folder, unless you specify an
                                        alternative location. YouTube video clips can be captured
                                        using the same process as above.
Figure
                                                24.23 Example of corporate web page captured
                                            with NCaptureNVivo, version 11 Plus for
                                            Windows, 2015



Importing And Viewing A Web Page

Activity 24.37
In Navigation View click on Sources
                                                  > Internals > [Folder for NCapture
                                                  downloads].In List View
Right-click > Import > Import from
                                                  NCapture.Browse to locate the captured data.Click on the Select captures to import radio
                                                button and check the tick box for the target web
                                                page.



Coding And Linking A Web Page
Hyperlinks in the imported web page can be viewed by
                                        Ctrl+click. In capturing the web page you may
                                    have added one or more Code at nodes. Sections of the
                                    imported web page can then be coded as with any other pdf source
                                    (note you might need to use region coding for complex and framed
                                    web pages). Hence, you can code to more nodes, add memo links,
                                    annotations, or 'see also' links.


Activity 24.38
Take a look at the following websites that offer useful
                                        sources and information:
www.qsrinternational.com. This is the website of
                                        QSR International, the company that owns and develops NVivo.
                                        The site contains updates, tutorials and information on
                                        training and consultancy.
www.sagepub.co.uk/bazeleynvivo. This is the website
                                        of Pat Bazeley, an Australian researcher and author (see
                                        Further Reading, below), and contains hints, reference
                                        material, sample chapters and advice.
www.surrey.ac.uk/sociology/research/researchcentres/caqdas/resources/index.htm.
                                        This is the website of the Computer Assisted Qualitative
                                        Data Analysis Network. It offers details of qualitative data
                                        analysis training courses (including those for NVivo) as
                                        well as resources for using qualitative data analysis
                                        software.



NVivo Overview







Summary
NVivo is a software program that assists in the coding of
                                    qualitative data. It does not do the data analysis for
                                    you.Before coding, read transcripts or listen to audio recordings
                                    carefully to familiarize yourself with the data.Sources comprise your research materials,
                                    including interview transcripts, audio and video files,
                                    photographs and memos; coding is the process of
                                    organizing data by topic, theme or case; nodes are
                                    containers for your coding; case classifications
                                    comprise people, organizations, locations, or events.Theme nodes comprise the themes and topics from your source
                                    material. Case nodes represent people, places, events,
                                    organizations or other entities that you want to analyse and
                                    compare.NVivo allows you to link to internal and external sources using
                                    hyperlinks, 'see also' links, annotations and
                                    linked memos.In a project, a person's demographic attributes such as
                                    age, gender and employment status may have an influence on their
                                    responses. These kinds of metadata can be used for comparing
                                    data across sub-groups in the research.NCapture allows you to import web pages as pdf files. These can
                                    be analysed as one would for text-based sources.

Review Questions
Getting to know NVivo is only useful when a researcher has a
                                        considerable amount of data to analyse. Discuss.What else is NVivo useful for, other than the analysis of
                                        qualitative data?What functions does NVivo offer for the researcher in
                                        developing a reflective stance?




Further Reading
Bazeley, P. and Jackson, K. (2013) Qualitative Data Analysis with
                                NVivo, 2nd edn. London: Sage. Provides a step-by-step guide to
                            using NVivo, plus a set of data files that the tutorials show you how to
                            manipulate and analyse. An essential source if you are serious about
                            using NVivo.
Fielding, N. and Lee, R.M. (1998) Computer Analysis and Qualitative
                                Research. London: Sage. A valuable introduction to some of the
                            principles of using computers in qualitative research as well as a
                            practical guide to managing data and coding categories.
Silver, C. and Lewins, A. (2014) Using Software in Qualitative
                                Research. London: Sage. A useful guide to the principles and
                            practice of using CAQDAS programs.

Don't forget to visit the companion website at https://study.sagepub.com/grayresearchbusiness for the
                                following resources which support this chapter:


















25 Analysing And Presenting
                        Qualitative Data

Chapter Introduction

Chapter Outline
Elements of qualitative data analysisAnalysing qualitative dataOther approaches to qualitative analysisQuality in qualitative analysisSoftware for qualitative data analysis


Keywords
InductionCodingReflexivityContent analysisThematic analysisGrounded theoryNarrative analysisConversational analysisDiscourse analysis



Icon Key







Author Video







Chapter Objectives
After reading this chapter you will be able to:
Describe some of the principles of qualitative data
                                        analysis.Select appropriate qualitative analytical methods, including
                                        grounded theory approaches.Apply qualitative methods to produce valid, reliable and
                                        trustworthy data.Make use of the 'voice' of the
                                        researcher.



We saw in Chapter 2 that while some research
                            methodologies tend to utilize either quantitative or qualitative
                            methods, very often both are used. This is because qualitative data can
                            provide rich descriptions and explanations that demonstrate the
                            chronological flow of events as well as often leading to serendipitous
                            (chance) findings. According to Miles and Huberman (1994) qualitative
                            studies have a quality of 'undeniability' because words
                            have a more concrete and vivid flavour that is more convincing to the
                            reader than pages of numbers. However, qualitative analysis has been
                            criticized for being lacking in methodological rigour, prone to
                            researcher subjectivity and based on small cases or limited evidence. We
                            will explore how qualitative analysis addresses such problems later in
                            this chapter.
Qualitative analysis is (or should be) a rigorous and logical process
                            through which data are given meaning. Through analysis, we can progress
                            through an initial description of the data then, through a process of
                            disaggregating the data into smaller parts, see how these connect into
                            new concepts, providing the basis for a fresh description. As we saw in
                                Chapter 2, there are different
                            approaches to qualitative research, including grounded theory,
                            ethnography and phenomenology, researchers often using a combination of
                            approaches in a research project. One of the challenges of qualitative
                            research is that there are no widely accepted rules about how
                            qualitative data should be analysed, other than that the approach is
                            generally inductive and involves the coding of data.
Another major issue is the extent to which data should be analysed. As
                            Strauss and Corbin (1998) point out, some researchers believe that the
                            data should not be analysed at all, but should merely be presented. This
                            allows the data to 'speak for themselves', untainted by
                            the potential subjective interpretations of the researcher. Other
                            qualitative researchers are concerned, however, with accurate selection,
                            synthesis and description of the data, but in as detached and objective
                            a way as possible. Other researchers are more concerned with theory
                            building, interpreting the data to build concepts and categories that
                            can be brought together into theoretical frameworks. In contrast, some
                            researchers see qualitative research as primarily being about
                            storytelling and description (Wolcott, 1994).
In this chapter we will look at approaches to how data can be analysed,
                            looking particularly at content analysis and grounded theory methods and
                            also including some increasingly influential approaches such as the use
                            of narratives, conversational analysis and discourse analysis. The
                            important issues of reliability and validity will also be addressed,
                            particularly from the stance of those who favour interpretivist and
                            naturalistic approaches.


Top Tip 25.1
Many people who are new to qualitative research collect their data
                                and then wonder how to analyse it. This is too late in the day! Plan
                                for the qualitative data analysis method you intend to use at the
                                design phase of the research process. This is essential, because
                                some approaches to data analysis will influence the ways in which
                                data are collected and the phases in which they are analysed.



Elements Of Qualitative Data Analysis
There is what may seem at first sight a quite bewildering number of
                            approaches to the analysis of qualitative data (some of which will be
                            discussed in this chapter) and no clear rules on which approach to adopt
                            in different circumstances. Thankfully, however, there are a few general
                            principles to qualitative data analysis that should be understood and
                            applied, whatever the approach to data analysis being adopted. These
                            include analytic induction, the principles and practices of coding, the
                            place of secondary data analysis and the reflexivity of the
                            researcher. We will look at each of these in turn.

Analytic Induction
As we saw in Chapters 2 and 3, induction involves the
                                collection and analysis of data from a range of individual cases in
                                order to identify patterns from them for the development of
                                conceptual categories. As Figure
                                    25.1 illustrates, the process of analytic induction involves
                                a number of defined stages. Essentially, starting from at least an
                                approximate definition of a research question, cases are examined to
                                see if they are consistent with a hypothetical explanation of the
                                research question. If no deviant cases are found, then the
                                hypothesis can be confirmed. If, however, cases emerge that are
                                inconsistent with the hypothesis, then either the hypothesis has to
                                be rewritten (and new cases examined), or the hypothesis itself is
                                redefined to exclude the deviant case.
As Bryman and Bell (2007) contend, analytical induction is an
                                extremely rigorous method of data analysis because if a single case
                                is inconsistent with the hypothesis, then either further data have
                                to be collected, or the hypothesis has to be reformulated. The
                                selection of cases also needs to be sufficiently diverse for the
                                theory that emerges to be adequately tested. So while theoretical
                                    sampling makes use of cases that add weight to the
                                development of a concept, analytical induction deliberately chooses
                                negative or deviant cases to disconfirm a hypothesis (Flick,
                                2009).


Steps In The Coding Process
Unlike quantitative data analysis where the statistical tools are
                                well understood, in qualitative analysis there are no hard and fast
                                rules for how data should be coded. There are, however, a number of
                                useful principles that should be applied, irrespective of whether
                                you are using grounded theory, content analysis or any other method.
                                One of the challenges of qualitative research is converting what can
                                often be a daunting volume of written (or visual) data, into a
                                clear, comprehensive and compelling analysis and argument. Bazeley
                                and Jackson (2013) offer a helpful, step-by-step approach,
                                illustrated in Figure 25.2, and described in
                                more detail next. Let us take the example of a study into the
                                professional identity of accountants. Ten accountants have been
                                interviewed, using semi-structured interview schedules, each
                                interview lasting a minimum of an hour.



Transcribing Your Own Data


Figure 25.1
                                    The process of analytic inductionSource: Adapted from Bryman and
                                    Bell, (2015) Business Research Methods, 4th edn.
                                    Reprinted by permission of Oxford University Press.
Bazeley and Jackson (2013) offer the following stages that are
                                discussed in the context of the identity study.
Transcribe the data. Whether you do this yourself, or
                                        pay for the service, may partly be determined by your
                                        budget. While typing up the transcript yourself may be
                                        time-consuming and laborious, it does develop a
                                        familiarization with the data at an early stage.Read and Reflect. Before even thinking about
                                        coding, it is important to become familiar with the text.
                                        Read through the transcripts two or three times. In our
                                        example, in the first two transcripts themes such as the
                                        importance of professional training and accreditation
                                        emerge; these themes are also evidenced in later transcripts
                                        but new themes such as the results of professionalism (job
                                        security and status) also seem important. Perhaps at this
                                        point make some general notes as an
                                            aide-mémoire in your research diary on
                                        what seemed interesting, unusual or perhaps
                                        significant.
Explore and play. Explore the data again, with a
                                            view to seeing themes and sub-themes, and connections
                                            between themes. Form some hunches and ask yourself
                                            questions. Experiment with relating provisional themes
                                            with external themes, models or theory. So in our
                                            example, we ask: how does the professional identity of
                                            accountants here, relate to models of professional
                                            identity of other professional groups? What is similar
                                            and what is different? Note this in your reflective
                                            diary.
Figure
                                                  25.2 Flowchart of the qualitative analysis
                                                processSource: Adapted from
                                                Bazeley and Jackson, 2013
Code and connect. Now we can code, because we have
                                        become immersed in the data and we have already noted some
                                        provisional constructs. Code for main themes and for
                                        sub-themes of these. Look for connections between codes. If
                                        a code relates to a concept in the literature, then you can
                                        make use of the literature category or description. Are some
                                        of the codes hierarchical? In other words, is one concept a
                                        sub-category of another? Generate as many codes as seem
                                        logical. These can always be amended or rationalized at a
                                        later stage.Review and refine. As coding of each case takes
                                        place, new codes emerge that might cause you to modify,
                                        merge or eliminate existing codes. Make a note of what you
                                        are doing in your reflective diary so that you have an audit
                                        trail of how you came to your final codes and the story that
                                        is emerging.
Having done the coding work, it now comes to developing an analytical
                                account of what the data tell us. Bazeley and Jackson (2013) suggest
                                that this is done in three stages: Describe, Compare and Relate.
Describe. This is not describing each individual
                                        case. It is taking each significant theme to emerge from the
                                        data and describing how each individual talked about it,
                                        showing consistencies but also contrasts.Compare. Look for differences across cases and relate
                                        these to demographic categories (do the attitudes of male
                                        and female accountants differ?), or external contexts (do
                                        accountants in large firms have a different view to
                                        accountants in small accountancy practices?). Ask questions
                                        of the data about who said what and why they said it.Relate. Look for connections and relationships across
                                        themes and ask questions about them. Why did the views of
                                        one group towards a theme differ to those of another? For
                                        example, why did the views of independent accountants
                                        towards accreditation differ to those accountants employed
                                        in one of the large accountancy firms? Finding a difference
                                        might prompt you to look for other themes on which these
                                        groups differ. Explore for under what conditions a theme or
                                        category arises. For example, does commitment to
                                        professional training and accreditation only arise when paid
                                        for by the employer rather than the employee?
By this stage, it becomes possible to develop a convincing analytical
                                account of the data, describing phenomena, presenting arguments,
                                demonstrating connections, testing theory and raising contentions.
                                As Bazeley and Jackson (2013) so rightly warn, in doing this, it
                                will often be necessary to return to the data and the analytical
                                framework that has been developed through coding, to check with the
                                evidence and sometimes to refine the analysis. Through this you will
                                be able to:
Contend a range of arguments and supporting evidence
                                        that answer your original research questions.Defend these arguments showing, from the data and
                                        coding, how these conclusions were reached, showing
                                        sensitivity to rival explanations and negative cases.Extend the results beyond the original research
                                        setting, showing how and in what ways they are relevant to a
                                        broader context. Taking our professional identity example,
                                        what is it that we have found about the professional
                                        identity of accountants that could be of relevance to
                                        theories of professional identity?This, however, is not necessarily the end of the analytical
                                        process. Exploring Figure 25.1 again, note that there is a feedback
                                        loop going back to previous stages. So, for example, say in
                                        our professional identity example, two cases suggested that
                                        identity is strongly reinforced by on-going professional
                                        development programmes. Yet we might be cautious about
                                        extending contentions from this, given its limited support
                                        in the data - only two of the ten cases. We might,
                                        therefore, choose to a) return to our data, to explore, code
                                        and review the data to see if we have missed support for
                                        this theme; b) collect more data by more interviews and
                                        cases. The latter is an example of theoretical sampling,
                                        mentioned in Chapter 9.
However, even when these principles are applied consistently and with
                                care, a common accusation levelled at qualitative data analysis is
                                that the coding tends to fragment the data, losing the connection between the text and
                                its context. For example, in presenting a quote from a respondent,
                                the reader loses the context within which it appeared. The narrative
                                flow of what people say is lost. This is one of the reasons why
                                narrative analysis as a form of qualitative data analysis has gained
                                in popularity in recent years.

Top Tip 25.2
In analysing qualitative data, make sure that you don't
                                    end up merely using isolated quotations from a number of
                                    respondents as if they contained some significant meaning. You
                                    have to move beyond description to include an analysis and
                                    interpretation of the data. Any verbatim quotations should be
                                    used as a way of supporting this analysis.



Moving Beyond Quotation





Analysing Secondary Data
While most of this chapter is concerned with the analysis of primary
                                data gathered in field settings (for example, through observations
                                or interviews) it is important to also recognize that researchers
                                can have access to data in the form of documents and other resources
                                where the data has been collected (and in some cases analysed) by
                                others (recall Chapter 21). For quantitative
                                researchers, secondary analysis can involve the use of both
                                documents and official statistics. For qualitative researchers,
                                secondary data analysis primarily involves the analysis of another
                                researcher's qualitative data or documents. While the
                                re-analysis of quantitative data sets has been common in policy
                                analysis and in the interpretation of key business decisions, its
                                use in qualitative analysis has been much more modest (Fielding,
                                2004). The purpose, however, remains similar - to perform
                                additional, in-depth analysis of a sub-set of the original data; or
                                to apply a new perspective or conceptual focus to the data.



UK Data Archive


Bryman and Bell (2007) suggest a checklist that researchers should
                                use when making use of documents (for both quantitative and
                                qualitative secondary analysis). The criteria include:
Who produced the document?Why was it produced?Is the material genuine and produced by someone who could
                                        write authoritatively and objectively on the subject?Can the events or accounts presented in the document be
                                        corroborated by other evidence?
To these we can add a concern about ethics. Are safeguards in place
                                to honour any commitments made by the original researchers to the
                                research subject? Whatever promises were made about confidentiality
                                need to be followed during the secondary data analysis.
As we saw in Chapter 21, secondary data
                                analysis offers the researcher a number of advantages, particularly
                                in terms of saving cost and time. Furthermore, where a subject is
                                particularly sensitive, researchers can make use of previously
                                gathered secondary data, rather than having to re-interview
                                participants. Secondary analysis is not, however, without its
                                detractors. Mauthner et al. (1998) contend that since qualitative
                                data are the result of a reflexive relationship between the
                                researcher and the researched (see the following section), the
                                conditions under which the data were collected are inescapable. This
                                means that secondary data analysis can only be valid if limited to
                                methodological exploration. Attempts to go beyond this by
                                attempting, say, to establish new analytical themes from the data
                                are inappropriate. Fielding (2004), however, sees this as less of an
                                epistemological than a practical problem since qualitative
                                researchers have always had to monitor the effects of contextual
                                features whether
                                performing primary or secondary analysis. Vital evidence for judging
                                the validity of an analytical point may well be sometimes missing
                                from archived data - but the same can be said of primary data
                                too.


Reflexivity - The Voice Of The Researcher
Reflexivity is a concept used to describe the relationship between
                                the researcher and the object of research (Brannick and Coghlan,
                                2007), and has been discussed by social scientists for over 30
                                years, influenced in the main by feminist researchers and those from
                                hermeneutic and critical theory traditions (recall Chapter 17). It has mainly been
                                applied to the collection of qualitative data, usually through
                                interviewing (Ryan and Golden, 2006). Reflexivity involves the
                                realization that the researcher is not a neutral observer, and is
                                implicated in the construction of knowledge. Far from being a
                                disinterested bystander, the researcher is seen as someone whose
                                observations are by their very nature selective, and whose
                                interpretations of results are partial. Coffey (1999), for example,
                                argues that researchers need to be aware of how fieldwork data
                                gathering and ethnographic writing construct, reproduce and
                                implicate selves, relationships and personal identities. The problem
                                is that many researchers fail to recognize this. In the words of
                                Mauthner and Doucet, in many research accounts, the researcher is
                                'rendered invisible as are the interpersonal, social and
                                institutional contexts' (2003: 415). This process, they
                                contend, has been made even worse by the growth in the use of
                                computer-assisted qualitative data analysis programs which have
                                given an air of scientific objectivity to what remains a
                                fundamentally subjective and interpretive process.



Reflexivity in Practice


There are, essentially, at least two forms of reflexivity.
Epistemological reflexivity, where the researchers
                                        reflect on their assumptions about the world and about the
                                        nature of knowledge. So they will ask themselves questions
                                        such as: how has the research question limited or distorted
                                        what was found? How could the study have been conducted
                                        differently?Personal reflexivity, where the researcher reflects
                                        upon how their personal values, attitudes, beliefs and aims
                                        have served to shape the research. This might also involve a
                                        personal reflection on how the research process impacted and
                                        changed the stance taken by the researcher. It involves
                                        honesty and openness and locates the researcher firmly
                                        within the dynamic of the research process, or in the words
                                        of Dupuis (1999), in a continuous, intentional and
                                        systematic self-introspection.
Mauthner and Doucet (2003) note that while reflexivity has been
                                increasingly seen as important, the research methods literature has
                                been relatively silent on steps for achieving it. However, some
                                practical approaches could include:
Designing research that involves multiple investigators.
                                        This can encourage dialogue and the critical interchanges of
                                        ideas - pushing researchers to make transparent their
                                        epistemological positions and personally held beliefs.Writing a reflexive journal. Lincoln and Guba (1994)
                                        recommend that this should include writing: (1) a daily
                                        schedule describing the logistics of the study; (2) a log of
                                        methodological decisions and changes; and (3) a personal
                                        diary recording reflections with particular reference to
                                        one's values and interests.Reporting research perspectives, values and beliefs in any
                                        research report. Dupuis (1999) recommends that this is done
                                        pre and post data collection so that changes in personal
                                        feelings can be made explicit.
Weber (2003), however, notes some of the potential dangers of
                                reflexivity.
Narcism. We become so wrapped up in
                                        self-introspection, that it becomes the actual focus of the
                                        study.Self-righteousness. We start to denigrate the work of
                                        other researchers who, for whatever reason, do not engage in
                                        reflexivity.Nihilism. We see that our research is limited in more
                                        and more ways. We become so conscious of the constraints on
                                        our research, the indeterminacy of theory, the limitations
                                        of research methods and the assumptions and biases that
                                        underlie our work that we become paralysed.Arrogance. We dismiss any work that can be
                                        generalized, arguing that every research context (including,
                                        or even particularly, our own) is unique.
While apposite, these warnings are perhaps aimed at those researchers
                                at the more extreme wings of the reflexivity movement. For the rest
                                of us, we should embrace reflexivity to the extent that it is in
                                line with our attitudes towards epistemology and our principles of
                                research design and practice.



Analysing Qualitative Data
Analysis involves the process of breaking data down into smaller units to
                            reveal their characteristic elements and structure (Dey, 1993: 30).
                            Descriptions can lay the basis for analysis, but we need to go beyond
                            description: we want to interpret, to understand and to explain. Through
                            analysis, however, we can also gain new insights into our data. Data can
                            be broken down into its constituent parts, and connections made between
                            these concepts, providing the basis for new descriptions (see Figure 25.3).
As we have seen, there are a wide range of approaches to qualitative
                            analysis, some being more deductive in approach (such as content
                            analysis) and others heavily inductive. Inevitably, the various
                            approaches also differ in the mechanics of data analysis, including the
                            attitude taken to the fragmentation of data.
Figure 25.3
                                Qualitative analysis as a circular processSource: Dey, I. (1993) Qualitative
                                    Data Analysis. London: Routledge. Reused with
                                permission.


Top Tip 25.3
When reporting qualitative research it is usual to also specify which
                                of the following qualitative data analysis approaches are being
                                used. However, at this stage, insufficient information is often
                                given. Having specified the approach (say, content analysis), inform
                                the reader about the stages involved in this process. Then
                                demonstrate and discuss how these stages were followed in the data
                                analysis.




Content Analysis
One of the most common approaches to analysing qualitative data is
                                through content analysis. Essentially, this involves the making of
                                inferences about data (usually text) by systematically and
                                objectively identifying special characteristics (classes or
                                categories) within them. The attempt to achieve a measure of
                                objectivity in this process is addressed by the creation of specific
                                rules called criteria of selection which have to be
                                established before the data can be analysed. In contrast to this,
                                with grounded theory (see the following section) no a priori
                                criteria are assumed, with these emerging through the process of
                                data collection and analysis itself. Hence, at the risk of
                                over-simplification, grounded theory is more inductive in character,
                                and content analysis more deductive.



Content Analysis in Organizations


In using content analysis, there are three procedures for identifying
                                classes and categories. First, common classes, comprising
                                categories in everyday thinking such as age, gender, boss, worker
                                are identified. These common classes can be useful in linking or
                                finding associations between the data and important demographic
                                characteristics. Secondly, special classes are identified,
                                comprising the kind of labels particular groups or communities use
                                to distinguish amongst things, persons or events. This can include
                                specialist types of language (including slang, the use of acronyms,
                                specialist professional terms, etc.). Thirdly, theoretical
                                    classes, or those classes that arise in the process of
                                analysing the data, are identified, providing the key linkages and
                                patterns. As Flick (2009) points out, however, these categories are
                                themselves often derived from theoretical models. So categories are
                                brought to the empirical data, and not necessarily derived from
                                them. Of course, they will be repeatedly evaluated against the data
                                and modified if necessary.
Having identified categories within the text, the next step is the
                                analysis itself. The key here is to reduce the volume of textual
                                material. Using the work of Mayring (1983), Flick (2009)
                                distinguishes three steps in the analysis process:
Summarizing content analysis, where the material is
                                        paraphrased, with similar paraphrases bundled together and
                                        less relevant passages eliminated.Explicating content analysis, which clarifies
                                        ambiguous or contradictory passages by introducing context
                                        material into the analysis. This could include dictionary
                                        definitions of terms, statements from the text or outside
                                        the text (for example, contextual information, theoretical
                                        propositions) that illustrate the passages being analysed.
                                        Through this process a clarifying paraphrase is formulated
                                        and tested.Structuring content analysis seeks to identify types
                                        of formal structures in the materials. Hence, the analysis
                                        might extricate key features in the material and describe
                                        them in more detail. Alternatively, the material might be
                                        rated according to dimensions on a scale. So, in a passage
                                        dealing with, say, 'motivation', the concept
                                        could be given a rating scale from 'Highly
                                        motivated' to 'Completely demotivated'.
                                        The passage is then searched for examples of motivational
                                        feelings against the scale, resulting in a frequency count
                                        for each of the motivational levels.
Berg (2006) argues that
                                content analysis can also be used with hypothesis testing, that is,
                                a more experimental or quasi-experimental design. With hypothesis
                                testing, he suggests going through the following stages:
Make a rough hypothesis based upon observations from the
                                        data.Search the data to find cases that do not fit with the
                                        hypothesis.If negative cases are found, discard or reformulate the
                                        hypothesis to account for the negative cases (recall the
                                        process of analytical induction, above).
Hence, it is necessary to develop research questions in advance that
                                are linked to previous research (Mayring, 1983 in Flick, 2009). It
                                is because of this insistence on measurement and hypothesis testing
                                that Locke (2001) places content analysis within the modernist,
                                objectivist paradigm.
Content analysis is potentially a very important weapon in the
                                researcher's armoury because it can be highly cost-effective.
                                There may be no need to design and issue costly questionnaires
                                - existing documentation such as company reports, memoranda
                                or emails may provide the basis for the data (as in secondary data
                                analysis, above). This, however, could also be construed as a
                                disadvantage since the approach has to rely on 'old'
                                data, rather than gathering fresh information. Another weakness is
                                that it is incapable of exploring associations and causal
                                relationships between variables. As Flick (2009) also points out,
                                the very conceptual structures that content analysis imposes on the
                                data may obscure some of the interpretations that may have emerged
                                inductively from within it.


Thematic Analysis
Thematic analysis is a method for identifying and analysing patterns
                                (themes) within qualitative data (Braun and Clarke, 2006) and is a
                                form of pattern recognition within the data (Fereday and
                                Muir-Cochrane, 2006). A theme captures something important about the
                                data in relation to the research question, and represents a level of
                                    patterned response or meaning within the data. According
                                to Braun and Clarke (2006) an important question to address in the
                                coding process is what counts as a pattern or theme and what
                                'size' a theme needs to be. In principle, there needs
                                to be a number of instances of the theme across the data set,
                                although the mere number of instances in themselves do not make the
                                theme more or less important than other themes. It just means the
                                theme can be identified. A theme becomes important when it captures
                                something important in relation to the overall research question.
                                Braun and Clarke (2006) also distinguish between inductive versus
                                theoretical thematic analysis. An inductive approach means that the
                                themes emerge from the data themselves - they are data
                                driven. In contrast, a theoretical thematic analysis emerges from
                                the researcher's theoretical stance and may provide a
                                detailed analysis of some aspect of the data. Here, Fereday and
                                Muir-Cochrane (2006) suggest the use of a template or codebook
                                developed a priori based on the research question and theoretical
                                framework.



Thematic Analysis


In terms of practical approach, Braun and Clarke (2006) identify six
                                phases:
Phase 1: Familiarize yourself with the data. Transcribe the
                                        data if necessary or at least read and re-read the data,
                                        noting down initial ideas.Phase 2: Generate initial codes. Code interesting features
                                        of the data systematically across the entire data set. If
                                        coding manually, do this by writing notes in the texts you
                                        are analysing, by using highlighters to indicate potential
                                        patterns or by using 'post-it' notes to
                                        identify segments of data. Ensure that all data are collated
                                        to a code. Code extracts of the data inclusively (keep some
                                        of the surrounding data) so that the context is not lost.
                                        Individual extracts of data can be coded into as many
                                        different themes as they fit.Phase 3: Search for themes. Collate codes into potential
                                        themes, gathering together all data relevant to each theme.
                                        In this phase it is often useful to create visual
                                        representations of the themes in the form of thematic maps
                                        (see Figure 25.4). Hence,
                                        some codes may form main themes, while others constitute
                                        sub-themes. There may also be themes that do not initially
                                        fit into the thematic map and be temporarily labelled
                                        'miscellaneous'.Phase 4: Review themes. Check if the themes selected are
                                        valid in relation to the coded extracts and the entire data
                                        set. At this stage it may become clear that some candidate
                                        themes are not actually themes because there is insufficient
                                        data to support them; in other cases, two themes might be
                                        integrated and renamed. Other themes might be broken down
                                        into separate themes.Phase 5: Define and name the themes. Refine each theme,
                                        generating clear definitions and names for each theme and
                                        identify the 'story' that each theme tells. Be
                                        clear about how each theme fits with the overall story. You
                                        should be able to describe the scope and content of each
                                        theme in no more than two sentences.Phase 6: Produce the report. Select vivid and compelling
                                        extracts relating back to the original research questions
                                        and the literature. The account must provide sufficient
                                            evidence of what have been identified as themes
                                        within the data.
Braun and Clarke (2006) argue that thematic analysis is relatively
                                easy to conduct, but there are potential pitfalls. One of these is
                                that the researcher merely paraphrases the data without actually
                                developing an analytic narrative. Another is that the analysis
                                itself might be weak or unconvincing. It is essential that the
                                themes cohere around a central idea or concept.


Grounded Theory
One of the most influential qualitative approaches is that of
                                grounded theory, defined as a theory that is: 'discovered,
                                developed and provisionally verified through systematic data
                                collection and analysis of data pertaining to that
                                phenomenon' (Strauss and Corbin, 1998: 23). Locke (2001)
                                suggests that locating grounded theory in a particular research
                                paradigm is difficult because it has been used in both modernist
                                (objectivist) and interpretivist approaches. There is, however, a
                                clear influence of symbolic interactionism, and this interpretivist
                                paradigm's commitment to studying the social world and the
                                rejection of a priori theorizing.
Figure 25.4
                                    Development of a thematic map
Grounded theory methods
                                have been extensively used in education, evaluation research,
                                nursing and organizational studies (Charmaz, 1995). Unlike the
                                deductive approach, grounded theory does not begin with prior
                                assumptions about hypotheses, research questions or what literature
                                should underpin the study. This is not to say that grounded
                                theorists embark on a study with no theoretical position. They will
                                have a competent level of knowledge about the area. But, as Strauss
                                and Corbin (1998) warn, grounded researchers should not be so
                                steeped in the literature that their creative efforts become impeded
                                or constrained. The research should commence with a defined purpose,
                                but also with the realization that this purpose may become modified
                                or even radically altered during the research process itself.
                                Through data analysis new theoretical positions or understandings
                                may emerge.
The grounded theory researcher works with his or her participants to
                                actively construct the data, to get beyond static analysis to
                                multiple layers of meaning. According to Charmaz (1995), these
                                layers could include:
The participant's stated explanations of her or his
                                        actions.The participant's unstated assumptions about these
                                        actions.The participant's intentions and motivation for
                                        engaging in the actions.The effects of the actions on others.The consequences of these actions for interpersonal
                                        relations and for further individual actions.
What about the data analysis process itself? Strauss and Corbin
                                (1998) lay down a structured process and one that has become a
                                highly influential way of analysing data comprising:
Open coding: the disaggregation of the data into units.Axial coding: recognizing relationships between
                                        categories.Selective coding: the integration of categories to produce a
                                        theory.
These are pulled together into a framework that is called a
                                conditional matrix, a 'complex web of interrelated
                                conditions, action/interaction, and consequences pertaining to a
                                particular phenomenon' (Strauss and Corbin, 1998: 181). These
                                coding processes, however, are not necessarily completely distinct,
                                and do not need to take place in sequence. In a single coding
                                session, the researcher might move quickly from one coding method to
                                another, particularly from open to axial coding. Another point to
                                stress is that data collection and analysis should be an interwoven
                                process with analysis, prompting the sampling of new data. Charmaz
                                (1995) provides advice on the timing of the analysis, also
                                suggesting that the data should be studied as they emerge, making it
                                easier to identify respondents' implicit meanings and
                                taken-for-granted assumptions. Hence, for the novice grounded
                                researcher, it is best to transcribe your own tapes as this gets you
                                into contact with the data at an early stage.
Before we begin to look at these coding categories in detail, a word
                                of warning. As Dey (1999) discusses, not all advocates of grounded
                                theory agree with Strauss and Corbin's approach. Glaser
                                (1992), for example, accuses their later work of abandoning their
                                earlier, influential ideas, suggesting that it has evolved into a
                                quite different methodology (the coding paradigm, dealt with next).
                                For Glaser, this smacks too much of rules and structure being
                                imposed upon the data. However, despite these criticisms, the
                                Strauss and Corbin approach is widely used and recognized as a
                                valuable methodology. Given that the methodological advice coming from the grounded
                                theory literature can be 'bewilderingly complex'
                                (Partington, 2002: 138), an attempt is made here to supplement
                                procedural descriptions with illustrative graphics. It must be
                                stressed that this is just one interpretation of how grounded theory
                                can be applied in practice.

Open Coding
Open coding is defined as 'the naming and categorizing of
                                    phenomena through close examination of the data' (Strauss
                                    and Corbin, 1998: 62). Two analytical procedures are involved in
                                    the open coding process: the making of comparisons and the
                                    asking of questions, both of which help towards the labelling of
                                    phenomena in terms of concepts or categories (see Table 25.1). According to
                                    Strauss (1987), there are four essential guidelines to follow in
                                    the data analysis process:
Ask the data a specific and consistent set of questions,
                                            keeping in mind the original objectives of the research
                                            study. The intention here is to uncover whether the data
                                            fit with these objectives. There may be occasions when
                                            new or unanticipated results emerge from the data, an
                                            outcome that is entirely valid.Analyse the data minutely, but also include as many
                                            categories, examples and incidents as possible.Frequently interrupt the coding to write a theoretical
                                            account. As the data are being coded, ideas or
                                            theoretical perspectives may arise. It is essential that
                                            these are noted immediately otherwise they may well be
                                            forgotten.Do not assume the analytical relevance of any
                                            traditional variable such as age, gender, social class,
                                            etc. until its relevance emerges from the data. This is
                                            particularly so if the impact of an expected variable
                                            does not emerge - this result must be
                                            accepted.



Open Coding


Open coding works through a process of making constant
                                        comparisons. Each time an instance of a category is
                                    found, it is compared with previous instances. If the new
                                    instance does not fit the original definition, then either the
                                    definition must be modified, or a new category created. Case
                                    Study 25.1 provides a practical example of how the process of
                                    asking questions and making comparisons can lead to the
                                    generation of concepts and categories.


Source: Adapted from Strauss
                                        and Corbin, 1998



Case Study 25.1

Developing Grounded Theory - Open
                                            Coding
A researcher is asked to observe customer behaviour in a
                                            large department store. She positions herself in an
                                            unobtrusive way, where she can see customers entering
                                            and leaving the store, walking down the aisles, looking
                                            at merchandise and buying goods, etc. Although the store
                                            is very busy and the activity at first appears chaotic,
                                            some tentative patterns begin to emerge which she begins
                                            to label. Some customers, for example, seem content with
                                            examining goods (picking them up, looking at them,
                                            putting them down) but then just moving on. She asks
                                            herself: why are they doing this? This behaviour she
                                            labels exploring. Other customers approach
                                            counter staff or supervisors walking around and ask them
                                            questions. This she labels questioning. Still
                                            other customers approach the busy tills and seem content
                                            to stand in line to be served. The label attached to
                                            this is simply queuing. Once at the till, they
                                            are, of course, buying. It is clear, however,
                                            that a minority of customers queue for a short time and
                                            grow impatient. They can be observed to put the
                                            merchandise down on a counter or shelf before leaving
                                            the store. This behaviour is labelled as
                                                deserting. One customer, however, is seen to
                                            be arguing with a supervisor. This behaviour is called
                                                remonstrating.



Understanding Customer
                                                  Behaviour


Image
                                                  25.1 Retail activity© V.Kreinacke 0027 82
                                                3958107 / iStock.com
Later she notices that some customers not only pick up
                                            and look at goods they even rub them between their
                                            fingers and in some cases smell them! Hence under the
                                            category of exploring, she is able to identify three
                                            sub-categories: looking, feeling and
                                                smelling.
After the observation session our researcher begins the
                                            process of categorizing the data. In doing this,
                                            she is careful to choose categories that are more
                                            abstract in nature than the concepts they describe.
                                            Hence, she groups exploring and questioning to form the
                                            category information seeking while queuing and
                                            buying are grouped together as intentional
                                                purchasing.



Activity 25.1
Conduct a detailed observation of an event or phenomenon
                                        within a field setting. Analyse your data using open coding,
                                        providing your own set of descriptive labels.



Note that the labels
                                    given in Case Study 25.1 are original and specific to the
                                    researcher. This is important because if she had taken already
                                    existing and 'borrowed' categories, these can come
                                    with pre-existing meanings that can bias the research. Once
                                    categories are produced they still have to be developed so that
                                    they can be used in further data collection and analysis.
                                    Categories are developed in two ways: by their properties
                                    and by their dimensions. Using Case Study 25.1, we could
                                    take the category 'information seeking' and
                                    examine it for its properties and dimensions. Table 25.2 illustrates the
                                    results, showing that properties are the characteristics or
                                    attributes of a category. Dimensions represent the location of a
                                    property along a continuum. The development of properties and
                                    dimensions is crucially important because they are central in
                                    making relationships between categories and sub-categories and
                                    later between major categories. They thus provide the basis of
                                    the analytical processes of grounded theory.


Source: Adapted from Strauss
                                        and Corbin, 1998



Axial Coding
As we saw in the previous section, open coding disaggregates data
                                    so that categories can be located. Axial coding then
                                    takes these categories and tries to make connections between
                                    categories and sub-categories. Essentially, this means
                                    specifying:
A category (phenomenon) in terms of the
                                            conditions that helped to give rise to it.The context in which it arises.The actions and interactions that stem
                                            from it.Its consequences.



Axial Coding


We are also interested in what caused the phenomenon. Figure 25.5 provides a
                                    highly simplified illustration of the relationships between a
                                    phenomenon and its causes, context, actions and consequences.
                                    Note that Strauss and Corbin (1998), referring to the work of
                                    Dewey, caution that an initial condition rarely leads to an
                                    action/interaction and then a consequence in a direct
                                    manner.

Rather, action/interaction may be taken in response to
                                        multiple conditions, some of which occurred in the past,
                                        some of which are happening in the present, and/or some of
                                        which are anticipated in the future. (Strauss and Corbin,
                                        1998: 184)

Hence, in Figure 25.5, causal
                                    conditions may occur in a variety of different temporal
                                    states.
To illustrate the process of linking sub-categories to
                                    categories, let us take the example of our retail store in the
                                    previous case study. We have seen a customer remonstrating
                                    (phenomenon) with a supervisor. We observe that the reason
                                    (causal condition) for this is the fact that the queues for the
                                    tills were very long and that she could not get served. But the
                                    description of this phenomenon, 'remonstration',
                                    does little to fully describe the event. We need more detail. So
                                    we are also interested in the specific dimensions of the
                                    phenomenon, and discover that this was an angry remonstration
                                    (in terms of volume/language) that lasted 10 minutes (time) in
                                    the middle of the store (location). But we also need to know
                                    something about the properties of the causal condition (the
                                    queuing) and discover that the customer queued for eight minutes
                                    at a till that was shut seconds before she was about to be
                                    served. Next, we take a look at the context in which the
                                    phenomenon occurred, examining issues such as when, how and the
                                    type of cause. We discover that some tills are not operational
                                    due to staff shortages and that the till closure happened
                                    suddenly because the member of staff was due her lunchbreak.
Figure
                                            25.5 Making connections between categories and
                                        sub-categories by examining a phenomenon in terms of its
                                        properties, dimensions and causal conditions
Yet, there are also intervening conditions, or what could
                                    be called a 'broader structural context' (Strauss
                                    and Corbin, 1998: 103), which act either to constrain or
                                    facilitate the actions being taken (see Figure 25.6). For example, again using our
                                    illustration, we find that during the angry remonstration, the
                                    store manager happens to be passing and intervenes to help. She
                                    uses her cellphone to call for more staff and opens a till
                                    herself and serves the irate customer. But in general terms,
                                    intervening conditions within a context can include a wide range
                                    of conditions, including the influence of culture, time,
                                    economic status, hierarchical position in an organization,
                                    technological status, individual biography, etc. For example,
                                    the remonstration is a long one, not just because of the scale
                                    of the inconvenience, but because only the previous week the
                                    company that owns the store had announced record profits, so the
                                    customer may be reasoning 'Why haven't they
                                    employed more staff?'
We can see from the above analysis that grounded theory is an
                                    action/interaction method of theory building which is concerned
                                    with the ways in which people manage and respond to phenomena,
                                    existing within a specific context or conditions. Recalling the
                                    discussion of symbolic interactionism in Chapter 2, people assign meaning to phenomena and then
                                    act upon these interpretations, these actions bringing forth
                                    fresh interpretations and actions amongst participants. But this
                                    action and interaction also has consequences that may be
                                    predictable or unanticipated. Indeed, the failure to take action
                                    also has its consequences. Yet, while axial coding can help us
                                    to identify relationships between categories, we still need to
                                    see how these categories or classes can be integrated to build
                                    theories. This is achieved through selective coding.
Figure
                                            25.6 Making connections between categories and
                                        sub-categories: the impact of intervening conditions


Selective Coding
This is the process of selecting core categories from the
                                    data in order to form the grounded theory. In terms of
                                    processes, this is not too different to axial coding, the main
                                    difference being that it is completed at a much higher level of
                                    abstraction. Through axial coding you will have derived a set of
                                    phenomena or categories that have been defined in terms of their
                                    properties, dimensions, etc. Through selective coding, core
                                    categories are sought through which a 'story' can
                                    be told. The selective coding process involves a number of
                                    stages that illuminate the social processes going on
                                    unconsciously among a group of people comprising:
Finding a story line formulated around core
                                            categories.Relating sub-categories to the core categories.Validating these relationships against the data.Filling in categories that need further refinement.



Selective Coding


Table 25.3 provides a brief
                                    summary of some of these terms, after which we will discuss them
                                    in more detail.
One of the key features of grounded theory is theoretical
                                        sampling, which helps to make the emerging theory more
                                    generalizable. This is achieved by seeking to minimize and
                                    maximize the selected differences and similarities between core
                                    categories and the relationships between them across cases.
                                    Hence, finding strong similarities across cases (and minimum
                                    differences) helps to build confidence in the validity of the
                                    emerging theory. Attempting to find cases that contradict the
                                    theory may help to locate unexpected data and perhaps the
                                    emergence of new perspectives.



Source: Adapted from Strauss
                                        and Corbin, 1998



Identifying The Story
The best way to start is to describe in a few short sentences the
                                    essence of the story to produce a general, descriptive overview.
                                    What are the most salient features? What are the main problems
                                    being scrutinized? It might be useful to return to the axial
                                    coding stage and find an abstract category that in some way
                                    summarizes the story. If such a category does not exist, then
                                    one will have to be formulated that encapsulates the categories
                                    in the study. If more than one category exists, it is necessary
                                    to make a choice between them so that only one core category is
                                    used. Taking our example of the observation in the retail store,
                                    the main story here could be construed as intentional shopping
                                    behaviour. Whether customers are asking questions, examining
                                    goods, leaving the store impatiently or patiently queuing, they
                                    behave, or attempt to behave, intentionally - that is,
                                    with a specific aim.


Relating Sub-Categories To The Core
                                    Categories
This involves relating subsidiary categories around the core
                                    category by means of the paradigm so that they fit and provide
                                    an analytical version of the story. This may mean writing or
                                    re-writing the story and rearranging categories until they
                                    achieve a better fit with the story. Within these conceptual
                                    categories there will be relationships and networks of patterns.
                                    Strauss and Corbin (1994) stress how important it is to identify
                                    these patterns because it is these that give the theory
                                    specificity. Hence, it becomes possible to say that under one
                                    set of conditions this happens, whereas under another set
                                    of conditions that happens. Case Study 25.2 takes our
                                    retailing research a little further.

Case Study 25.2

Developing Grounded Theory -
                                            Selective Coding
Although the store is crowded and presents the appearance
                                            of chaos, in fact, thanks to the highly intentional
                                            behaviour of most customers, there are distinctive
                                            patterns of behaviour that become predictable. People do
                                            not simply rush into the store, grab the first item they
                                            see and then run out with it! They look around (touring)
                                            the isles, sometimes leaving this department, but
                                            returning later. Our researcher notices that those who
                                            examine merchandise closely tend to be with someone else
                                            rather than being alone - hence, exploratory
                                            behaviour is usually collaborative. Opinions are being
                                            shared (the 'second opinion'). People
                                            queue, because the alternative, pushing and shoving
                                            one's way to the counter, will lead to even more
                                            stress. Queuing is a time-consuming activity that is
                                            undertaken to save time. Customers who approach store
                                            staff for information are also attempting to save
                                            themselves time by gaining quicker access to
                                            information.



Retail Culture






Activity 25.2
Returning to your data in Activity 25.1, take your open
                                        coding categories through the axial coding process, making
                                        connections between categories. Then, using selective
                                        coding, identify core categories and formulate a story
                                        line.



Validating These Relationships Against The
                                    Data
Having found a story and related various categories to it, the
                                    relationships uncovered can be validated (grounding the theory)
                                    by returning to the data and asking whether the story fits for
                                    all those observed in the study. We may find, for example, that
                                    a minority of customers do not appear to behave intentionally at
                                    all. We noted in Case Study 25.1 that some customers spent some
                                    time queuing before losing patience and leaving the store. If
                                    their intention was to buy goods, they failed. Yet their
                                    behaviour may perhaps still be construed as intentional because
                                    leaving the store in this way has saved them time from not
                                    queuing. They valued their time more highly than the
                                    satisfaction to be gained from the purchased commodities.
                                    However, for instances that cannot be analysed as intentional,
                                    we need to fill in more detail. The researcher needs to trace
                                    back to the data to uncover the conditions that might be causing
                                    this variation.


Filling In Categories That Need Further
                                    Refinement
This is necessary to give 'conceptual density' to
                                    the theory as well as developing more conceptual specificity.
                                    This filling in phase may continue even up to the process of
                                    writing up the project, since report writing itself may reveal
                                    gaps and inconsistencies that require attention. If this occurs,
                                    the researcher may have to return to the field to collect more
                                    data (for example, by interviewing some of the shoppers). This
                                    illustrates that the task of data collection and analysis is not
                                    necessarily sequential but can be an iterative process.
The grounded theory approach just described should be a dynamic
                                    one when process is built into the analysis. Process
                                    means showing the evolving nature of events by noting why and
                                    how action/interaction (in the form of events, doings or
                                    happenings) will change, stay the same or regress (Strauss and
                                    Corbin, 1998). In other words, it is a case of not only noticing
                                    changes in phenomena but also of explaining why they occur. As
                                    Strauss and Corbin (1998) concede, however, explanations may not
                                    always be obvious, even after additional data have been
                                    collected. They suggest, therefore, that a more deductive
                                    approach is adopted, in terms of a hypothesis, after which the
                                    researcher should return to the data to see if this hypothesis
                                    can be supported, modified or rejected.
But how and where do changes occur? There are three potential
                                    sources:
Changes can occur in the causal conditions that led to
                                            the phenomenon.There may be a change in the intervening
                                            conditions.The outcomes or consequences of the action/interaction
                                            may in turn feed back into new causal conditions (see Figure 25.7).
Figure
                                            25.7 The impact of outcomes and consequences on
                                        the original causal conditions


Maintaining Theoretical Sensitivity
Strauss and Corbin (1998) argue that theoretical sensitivity,
                                    keeping an awareness of the subtleties of meaning in data, is an
                                    important element of grounded theory. Accordingly, they argue
                                    that theoretical sensitivity implies:

the ability to give meaning to data, the capacity to
                                        understand, and capability to separate the pertinent from
                                        that which isn't. (Strauss and Corbin, 1998: 42)

Glaser (1992) links this sensitivity more overtly with theory
                                    building, arguing that it is the ability to generate concepts
                                    from the data and to relate them, according to normal models of
                                    theory. This sensitivity stems from a number of sources.
The literature, which helps highlight issues and what
                                            might be important and unimportant.The professional experience of the researcher, showing
                                            what is important in the field of research chosen, and
                                            how things work, allowing events to be more clearly
                                            understood and interpreted.Personal experience, including experience in research,
                                            which can facilitate the making of comparisons.The analytical process itself, which can provide
                                            insights into the meaning of the data.
Theoretical sensitivity is a way of ensuring that the creativity
                                    involved in qualitative research is harnessed in such a way that
                                    the interests of science are not impeded. The process of
                                    scientific inquiry is further facilitated if the researcher is
                                    willing to 'step back from the data' and ask basic
                                    questions such as: do the data really fit the hypothesis? This
                                    is part of the process of maintaining a healthy scepticism and
                                    realizing that all elements of a study - hypotheses,
                                    concepts, questions, theories, etc. - are provisional.
                                    Strauss and Corbin (1998) advise that a sound approach is to
                                    alternate between collecting and analysing data. Through this approach,
                                    analysis can allow for further questions to emerge, for sample
                                    selection and data collection, and the verification of
                                    hypotheses as they are being developed.


Concluding Grounded Research
As we have seen, grounded theory research can involve a fairly
                                    continuous iteration between data collection and analysis and
                                    between the different levels of coding. So, when is the research
                                    completed? When is it time to stop? Glaser and Strauss (1967)
                                    suggest that this is when the level of 'theoretical
                                    saturation' is reached. By this they mean the
                                    non-emergence of new properties, classes, categories or
                                    relationships from the data. Knowing when this point is reached,
                                    of course, is a matter of experience and judgement. This
                                    decision is helped if the research has moved towards the clear
                                    identification of core categories (around which the main story
                                    line is woven) and peripheral categories of less central
                                    significance. Hence, once the analysis has been integrated
                                    around the core categories and an adequate theory has emerged,
                                    the research could be said to be complete. Note that Bryman
                                    (2007a) cautions that grounded theory may be effective in the
                                    generation of concepts, but he questions whether it actually
                                    produces theory itself.
Before finishing this section, it might be useful to look at
                                    grounded theory in relation to other research approaches. Locke
                                    (2001), for example, suggests that grounded theory has much in
                                    common with:
Ethnography, in that data collection and theory building
                                            are woven together as the researcher progresses
                                            (although grounded theorists are less interested in the
                                            cultural aspects of contexts).Case studies, in that grounded theory may be
                                            incorporated into a case study as a means of handling
                                            and interpreting data.Action research (see Chapter 13), in
                                            that both seek to develop theoretical elements that are
                                            useful to practitioners within the research setting
                                            (although grounded theorists are less concerned with
                                            organizational transformation).




Other Approaches To Qualitative Analysis
In a sense, having discussed two of the main analytical approaches,
                            content analysis and grounded theory, we are left with the category of
                            'other' in which there are a considerable number of
                            competing approaches. Three of the most significant, the use of
                            narratives, conversational analysis and discourse analysis, are
                            discussed, briefly, here.

Narrative Analysis
One of the criticisms of content analysis, and particularly of
                                grounded theory approaches, is that they lead to the fragmentation
                                and decontextualization of data away from the social processes they
                                are meant to represent. However, research that encourages the use of
                                oral or life histories, or uses unstructured interviews, often
                                elicits qualitative data in the form of narratives or stories that
                                lead to more holistic data right from the start. Using narratives is
                                an ideal way of capturing the lived experiences of participants and
                                has been used extensively in settings such as the study of traumatic
                                events, and in the life of organizations. Musson (1998), for
                                example, shows how people's narratives can be used to explain
                                the contradictions, confusions and complexities of working within a
                                modern organization, and how this can illuminate how both
                                individuals and their organizations function. The analysis of
                                narrative data is also sensitive to the temporal sequence that
                                people inject into the accounts of their lives or events that
                                surround them (Bryman and Bell, 2007).



Understanding Narrative Analysis


While different approaches
                                to the analysis of narratives have been put forward, all have a
                                number of common characteristics. First, the text is viewed in the
                                gestalt, that is, within the context and social situation in which
                                it is created. Next comes the formal analysis of the text, including
                                making distinctions between text that constitutes narrative
                                passages, and other forms of text. Where researchers generally
                                differ is in their attitude to the status of the text itself. While
                                some take the 'truth' of the narrative at face value,
                                others see narratives as a special way of constructing events, that
                                is, they are 'social constructions located within power
                                structures and social milieux' (Punch, 2005: 223). In the
                                context of research within organizational settings, narratives bring
                                forth a variety of perspectives and viewpoints, some of which may
                                contradict and contest each other. From a postmodern perspective,
                                the analysis and interpretation of these narratives itself
                                constitutes a narrative, which may be more or less compelling than
                                other interpretations.


Conversational Analysis
Conversational analysis is interested in the formal analysis of
                                everyday conversations (Flick, 2009). Primarily, this includes the
                                analysis of natural texts (often the results of transcribed tape
                                recordings) and seeks to specify the formal principles and
                                mechanisms with which participants express themselves in social
                                interactions, or what Hutchby and Wooffitt (1998) term
                                talk-in-interaction. Research in conversational analysis was
                                originally limited to the study of everyday conversations such as
                                telephone calls or family conversations, but has been extended to
                                institutional-based conversations such as courtrooms, meetings and
                                various kinds of interviews.



Conversational Analysis in Hiring


Conversational analysis is less concerned with the formal analysis of
                                language per se, than with elements of social interaction
                                such as 'turn taking' or 'opening up
                                closings', interruptions and the distribution of speaking
                                rights, often in relation to various aspects of an
                                institution's functions (Have, 1999). Hence, conversational
                                analysis is very much focused on the issue of context. Meaning or
                                order in conversation can only be understood within the context of
                                local practices and are embedded within concrete contexts. Through
                                turn-by-turn analysis and the description of conversations, the
                                researcher is able to sense how social order among participants is
                                accomplished (Samra-Fredericks, 2004).


Discourse Analysis
The focus of discourse analysis is on how both spoken and written
                                language is used in social contexts. Attention is given to the
                                structure and organization of language with an emphasis on how
                                participants' versions of events are constructed. In contrast
                                to content analysis, discourse analysis rejects the view that
                                language is a transparent medium which merely reflects
                                'reality'. Analysis becomes focused on recognizing the
                                regularities in language in terms of patterns and repertoires. These
                                repertoires (constructs) do not emanate from the individual as such,
                                but are embedded in culturally and socially constructed
                                situations.




Quality In Qualitative Analysis
In Chapter 7 we explored how rigour
                            can be enhanced at the design stage. Here we examine how quality can be
                            improved at the data analysis and data presentation stages, looking once
                            more at the themes of validity and reliability.

Validity
Validity refers to whether a researcher is observing, identifying or
                                measuring what they claim they are (Mason, 2002). External validity
                                refers to the degree to which findings can be generalized to other
                                social or organizational settings. As was noted in Chapter 7, this is difficult to
                                achieve in qualitative research due, in large part, to the tendency
                                to use case studies and small samples. Internal validity refers to
                                whether there is compelling evidence that the researcher has
                                achieved a strong link between their evidence and the theoretical
                                ideas they develop from it. Table
                                    25.4 summarizes a range of techniques through which the
                                researchers can seek to enhance the internal validity of their
                                results.



Validity Theory




Source: Adapted from Whittemore
                                    et al., 2001

Member checking can involve getting respondents to review transcripts
                                of their interviews both for accuracy and to see if there are any
                                comments they would like to add. This can even include getting
                                participants to comment on coding schemes. Expert checking, as the
                                name implies, involves obtaining the collaboration of research or
                                other experts in validating and approving the analysis. Does the
                                expert, for example, using the same data, come to the same or
                                similar conclusions? Are there rival explanations that have been
                                overlooked? Writing memos both for themselves and for others to
                                review, helps in the generation and checking of concepts and categories. As we saw
                                earlier in this chapter, analytic induction makes use of hypotheses
                                as part of the process. Deciding whether the weight of evidence
                                supports or requires us to reject a hypothesis is a useful way of
                                determining whether claims made for the data analysis are valid or
                                not. Analysing negative or deviant cases can be important here, as
                                they may require the hypothesis to be reformulated and more evidence
                                collected, or the hypothesis to be reformulated so as to exclude the
                                deviant case (as in analytical induction, above). Finally,
                                performing a literature review allows for the findings of the
                                research study to be compared and contrasted with what previous
                                studies or experts have found.
Validity can be catered for at the data presentation stage through
                                providing an audit trail from the analysis back to the concepts,
                                constructs or data sets from which they were generated. In this way,
                                other researchers can confirm that the analysis is based upon
                                appropriate evidence. If, before this is done, the original
                                researchers make explicit their own philosophical perspectives and
                                intentions, then the task of validators is made much easier. The
                                same goes for 'thick descriptions' through which we
                                not only describe a phenomenon but the context in which it occurs.
                                Providing context encourages more confidence that the
                                interpretations that have been made are valid. For example, say you
                                were researching the public's concern with
                                'nuisance' phone calls from direct marketing
                                companies. If your research highlighted greater concern among older
                                residents, you would want to provide a national context (press
                                coverage of older, vulnerable people being targeted) as a possible
                                reinforcing environment.

Activity 25.3
Examine the list in Table
                                        25.4. Which of these techniques would you find useful to
                                    implement to aid the validity of your own qualitative
                                    research?



Reliability
External reliability is the extent to which the findings of a study
                                can be replicated, frequently a challenge in qualitative research
                                which often deals with unique social settings or cases. It is both
                                for epistemological as well as practical reasons that some adherents
                                of qualitative research regard external reliability as either
                                unattainable, unnecessary, or both. Internal reliability is improved
                                by the use of more than one observer in the field, or at the
                                analysis stage when multiple researchers are used in the
                                interpretation of the findings. This often starts with researchers
                                sharing and comparing coding schemes to determine the extent of
                                agreement and consistency. The use of computer-assisted programs for
                                qualitative data analysis (see the following section) often help
                                here. Also recall the discussion in Chapter
                                    7 where some researchers reject this approach to rigour,
                                arguing for criteria such as transferability, dependability,
                                confirmability and credibility.



Reliability Theory


One element of qualitative analysis, conversational analysis, brings
                                with it some different reliability issues. Since conversational
                                analysis is often based on tapes and transcripts of conversations,
                                in terms of reliability, it is fairly obvious that taped
                                conversations will tend to present more reliable evidence than
                                hastily written field notes. But as Peräkylä (2004)
                                warns, video- or
                                audio-recording of events may lose some important aspects of social
                                interaction. These reliability problems include:
Time: A single recording of events taking place in an
                                        organization may be either unenlightening or completely
                                        misleading if those events do not represent what typically
                                        happens most of the time. Hence, reliability will be
                                        improved with a more longitudinal research design, with
                                        multiple visits and recordings.'Ambulatory events': That is, the
                                        movements of people that simply do not show up on video or
                                        audio recordings. One solution is the setting up of multiple
                                        cameras to catch these movements.Documentary realities: Some conversations (for
                                        example, professional people such as consultants or lawyers
                                        talking to their clients) may be influenced by the documents
                                        (such as forms) they are discussing. Researchers must have
                                        access to these documents and include them in the analysis
                                        process.



Software For Qualitative Data Analysis
Before the arrival of computer-assisted qualitative analysis programs,
                            researchers had to perform a quite laborious process of writing marginal
                            codes on field notes or transcripts, making photocopies of these
                            documents and physically cutting chunks of text associated with a
                            particular code and pasting them together. Over the last 20 years, or
                            so, computer-assisted qualitative data analysis software (CAQDAS) has
                            made this redundant. Typically, CAQDAS software allows the researcher
                            to:
Import transcripts or other computer-generated documents
                                    directly into the program.Work through the data, marking words, phrases or sections of
                                    text with codes.For each code, collect together all the chunks of text
                                    associated with that code.
It is important to note what CAQDAS programs do not do. They do not
                            generate codes for you - this, obviously, is the task of the
                            researcher. The researcher still also has to interpret the data. But
                            CAQDAS software does cut out much of the drudgery of manipulating
                            qualitative data. Yet in doing this, there can be drawbacks. Richards,
                            for example, warns of the danger of 'coding fetishism'
                            (2002: 269). Since computers can code so easily, the novice researcher
                            can easily get 'hooked' on coding so that it becomes an
                            end in itself. Coding, then, comes to drive out the need for
                            interpretation. What is essential is that researchers move beyond the
                            'search-and-retrieve' functionality of CAQDAS programs.
                            Certainly, such programs are very effective at doing this and it is an
                            important function. But, as Richards (2002) points out, CAQDAS also
                            provides you with the opportunity to retrieve all the data on a coded
                            theme, to browse the data, and, if necessary, to recode it, or explore
                            it against new dimensions. Hence, coding becomes an iterative, creative
                            process, not something that is just done once and halted. Hopefully, Chapter 24 and its introduction to
                            NVivo provided you with the tools for doing this.



Choosing a CAQDAS Package




Top Tip 25.4
Should you use a CAQDAS program or not? The answer probably rests on
                                the amount of qualitative data you are trying to analyse. All
                                software programs come with a built-in overhead - the amount
                                of time and effort you need to learn them to a sufficient level of
                                proficiency. If, say, you have conducted 10 one-hour interviews,
                                generating about 60 pages of transcripts, you could probably conduct
                                a manual analysis, using the approach discussed in 'Elements
                                of qualitative data analysis', above. If, however, you feel
                                that the amount of data generated is substantial and fairly
                                overwhelming, then by all means make use of NVivo or a similar
                                program. Learning a CAQDAS program will also give you a useful
                                research skill for the future.



Top Tip: Compile a Codebook




On The Web 25.1
Evaluate the wide range of software packages for qualitative analysis
                                at the following websites:

http://caqdas.soc.surrey.ac.uk/index.htm


http://www.scolari.co.uk/




Summary
Qualitative data can have a quality of
                                    'undeniability' because they are rooted in the
                                    natural context of field settings.The main focus of qualitative analysis is to understand the ways
                                    in which people act and the accounts that people give for these
                                    actions.Approaches to qualitative data analysis include content analysis
                                    and grounded theory. Content analysis involves locating classes
                                    or categories within the data. These categories are usually
                                    derived from theoretical models. In contrast, grounded theory
                                    uses a process of open, axial and selective coding to develop
                                    categories and theories inductively from the data.Due to the lack of non-probability sampling methods, qualitative
                                    analysis is open to accusations of invalidity. However, claims
                                    for the validity of results can be strengthened, for example, by
                                    eliciting the views of research participants.The reliability of qualitative research can be strengthened by
                                    using multiple cases, or by supporting assertions using numerous
                                    examples, or by verifying the analysis using other researchers.
                                    Concepts such as credibility, authenticity, honesty and openness
                                    are also important in qualitative research.CAQDAS programs provide useful functionality for qualitative
                                    data coding and analysis. But before embarking on the process of
                                    learning a program, make sure that the quantity of data
                                    requiring analysis justifies the expenditure of time.


Review Questions
Strauss and Corbin (1998) point out that some qualitative
                                        researchers believe that data should 'speak for
                                        themselves', untainted by the analysis of the
                                        researcher. To what extent do you agree with this view?The role of theory in qualitative research is emergent.
                                        Discuss.To what extent is the reflexive voice of the researcher
                                        essential in qualitative accounts?Some qualitative researchers consider that external
                                        reliability is either unattainable, unnecessary or both. Do
                                        you agree with this stance?



Further Reading
Bernard, H.R. and Ryan, G.W. (2010) Analyzing Qualitative Data: A
                                Systemic Approach. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage. Deals with the
                            basics of coding and finding themes through to various approaches to
                            data analysis such as narrative analysis, discourse analysis, grounded
                            theory and content analysis.
Etherington, K. (2004) Becoming a Reflexive Researcher. London:
                            Jessica Kingsley. A book in which the author uses a range of personal
                            narratives to show how reflexive research works in practice.
Flick, U. (2014) An Introduction to Qualitative Research, 5th edn.
                            London: Sage. Deals with all the major theories and methods of
                            qualitative research design, including some less well known approaches
                            such as the use of personal narratives.
Locke, K. (2001) Grounded Theory in Management Research. London:
                            Sage. Provides a detailed summary of the evolution of grounded theory,
                            and illustrates how it can be applied in a management and organizational
                            context.
Miles, M.B. and Huberman, A.M. (1994) Qualitative Data Analysis,
                            2nd edn. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage. Still an outstanding source of many
                            and varied qualitative analysis methods.
Symon, G. and Cassell, C. (eds) (2004) Qualitative Methods and
                                Analysis in Organizational Research, 2nd edn. London: Sage.
                            Presents a refreshing array of qualitative techniques that are dealt
                            with only sparingly by many of the standard texts. Subjects include:
                            life histories, critical incident techniques, qualitative research
                            diaries and pictorial representation.


Journal Resources
Atherton, A. and Elsmore, P. (2007) 'Structuring qualitative
                            enquiry in management and organization research: A dialogue on the
                            merits of using software for qualitative data analysis',
                                Qualitative Research in Organizations and Management: An
                                International Journal, 2(1): 62-77. Explores the cases
                            for and against the use of computer-assisted qualitative data analysis
                            software (CAQDAS) in qualitative organization and management
                            research.
Goulding, C. (2005) 'Grounded theory, ethnography and
                            phenomenology: A comparative analysis of three qualitative strategies
                            for marketing research', European Journal of Marketing,
                            39(3/4): 294-308. Compares and contrasts three approaches to data
                            collection and interpretation and highlights some of the strengths and
                            weaknesses associated with each one.
Mutch, M. (2006) 'The
                            art and craft of rigorous analysis and authentic
                            (re)presentation', Qualitative Research Journal, 6(1):
                            51-68. Demonstrates the application of semiotic analysis to
                            analysing three transcripts at different levels of depth.

Don't forget to visit the companion website at https://study.sagepub.com/grayresearchbusiness for the
                                following resources which support this chapter:

















26 Writing Up The Research In A
                        Business Report

Chapter Introduction

Chapter Outline
The report writing processThe report structureEthical and legal considerationsDeveloping a writing style and toneUndertaking a review process


Keywords
Research reportSupervisorThesesDissertationsAcademic journalsPlagiarismIntellectual property rightsWriting style



Icon Key







Author Video







Chapter Objectives
After reading this chapter you will be able to:
Write a report that matches your original or evolving
                                        research objectives.Plan and resource the report writing process.Select from a number of different report formats.Present your findings in a written style, format and
                                        structure that is accessible to your intended audience.



You have planned your research project, adopted an appropriate research
                            methodology, designed valid and reliable data gathering tools and
                            collected and analysed the data. What could be easier than writing up
                            the research report? Actually, it is not as easy as many would imagine.
                            The most carefully planned and skilfully implemented research study will
                            be doomed if you are incapable of presenting the findings in a manner
                            that is engaging, coherent and accessible for your intended audience. As
                            Murray (1994) warns, reports are too often written in a private language
                            that excludes the very people who may have responsibility for actually
                            implementing or assessing the research. One of the keys, therefore, is
                            to keep it simple.
Timing is also important. Most people assume that reports are written at
                            the end of a research project. This is not necessarily the case. Indeed,
                            the more time you can devote to writing sections or chapters of the
                            report during the research process itself, the better. This is because
                            the process of writing is extremely valuable in clarifying your own
                            thoughts, and in finding where gaps and inconsistencies may be emerging
                            in the research. It is better to discover these problems well before the
                            end of the research project so that they can be rectified.
Another concern is that of objectivity. It is likely that you are
                            tackling a research project because you are interested in the subject,
                            or have been asked to do it by a sponsor. Either way, even though at the
                            start of the project you do not see yourself as an expert, it is
                            probable that you have some interest or connection with the topic. The
                            key here, then, is adopting and maintaining an objective
                            'distance' from the subject and not getting dragged into
                            some sort of polemical argument. Failure to maintain an objective stance
                            will not only cloud and obscure your writing, it may alienate your
                            audience.



Importance of Objectivity


Report writing is (or should be) a creative process. Even using the same
                            sets of data, two researchers will not produce reports that are
                            identical. But report writing is also a skill and, like any skill, it
                            must be learned through practice. It must also be based upon sound
                            principles. Presented in this chapter, then, are some basic approaches
                            to producing a research report that will hopefully complement rather
                            than hinder the research effort that has preceded it. Note that the term
                            'report' is used here to mean actual reports produced in
                            an organizational context, but many of the principles discussed apply
                            equally to academic dissertations, theses and articles written for the
                            academic literature. These are also discussed with reference to their
                            own specific requirements.



The Report Writing Process
You will recall that in Chapter 3 and, indeed, throughout
                            this book, the importance of writing clear and unambiguous research
                            objectives has been stressed. It would certainly be a pity if, at the
                            final hour, these objectives were ignored and the report aimed at a
                            completely different set of goals! Of course, it is possible that your
                            objectives may have shifted or even radically changed during the
                            research process itself. This is entirely acceptable, as long as you
                            have clearly articulated what these new objectives are going to be. Even
                            in the most heuristic research approach, the researcher sets off with an
                            intended goal - even though this may become modified through the
                            process of inquiry itself.

Planning The Report
Some writers prefer to launch themselves immediately into the writing
                                process, but it is usually prudent to start with at least a draft
                                plan for the report, even if the plan may change during the writing
                                itself. The plan can initially be sketched out on paper or typed
                                straight into a word processed document. The plan might contain the
                                main headings and sub-headings of the report, and references to
                                where notes, files or data sets can be found for when the actual
                                writing process starts. The report plan, for example, might comprise
                                the following headings:
Executive summaryIntroductionBackground and aimsResearch methodologyFindingsAnalysis and recommendationsConclusionsAppendices



Planning Reports Checklist


It is nearly always sensible to get this plan evaluated by a
                                reviewer. This person might be your supervisor or tutor if you are
                                undertaking an academic course of study, a peer or co-worker or even
                                the report's organizational sponsor. In seeking this review,
                                make it clear that you want critical feedback. Eliciting the views
                                of managers or sponsors is always useful because it enables you to
                                gain some assurance that the report meets with their interests and
                                needs.
In some cases, the planning of the report may be assisted by terms of
                                reference that describe the purposes of the report, its scope, type
                                and readership. Sometimes these terms of reference may be given to
                                you by whoever is commissioning you to carry out the research.
                                Wainwright (1990) suggests that if you have not been given any terms
                                of reference, you should write your own.

Knowing The Purpose Of The Report



Top Tip: Developing Writing Style


Before starting, as Turk and Kirkman (1989) warn, you must begin
                                    with a clear idea of what it is you want to achieve. This is not
                                    the same as your subject. By focusing on the aim of your report,
                                    you are considering what it is that the readers want to know, so
                                    that it is relevant, interesting and usable for them. Failure to
                                    think clearly about the needs, interests and motivations of the
                                    target audience is one of the most common reasons why reports
                                    fail to fulfil their
                                    potential. It often helps to think what it is you expect readers
                                    to actually do after they have read the report. For example, do
                                    you expect them to:
Request a presentation.File the report.Pass the report on to another individual or
                                            committee.Send an email.Arrange a meeting.Sign a cheque.

Activity 26.1
Examine each of the following words, and select one or more
                                        that describe the purpose of your report: describe, explain,
                                        instruct, specify, evaluate and recommend, provoke debate
                                        but does not seem to lead, persuade, concede and apologize,
                                        protest, reject.


Employability Skill 26.1

Writing Up Research For Different
                                            Audiences
You also need to remember that the report may be read by
                                            a variety of people, each of whom has a different
                                            interest or motivation for reading it. Writing for an
                                            academic audience will require a style of writing that
                                            includes a strong engagement with the academic
                                            literature and theory. Writing for practitioners (such
                                            as managers) may require less emphasis on theory and
                                            more on how findings can be applied to practice. So you
                                            will need to think of how the report can be written in a
                                            way that is accessible to a diverse audience, at least
                                            some of whom will not want to read it in its entirety.
                                            Producing an executive summary at the beginning of the
                                            report can help here.



Adapting to Your Audience






Turk and Kirkman (1989) suggest that, before you start, you ask
                                    yourself each of the following questions:
Are all the readers alike?What do they already know about the subject?What do they need to know?What are their attitudes to the subject, to the writer,
                                            and to the writer's objectives?What are the psychological and physical contexts within
                                            which the report will be received?
Booth (1991) also suggests that the writer needs to decide
                                    whether the message to be delivered is going to be made explicit
                                    or implicit in the report. She argues that it is often better to
                                    make the argument implicit, and to lead the reader towards the
                                    appropriate conclusion.

Activity 26.2
Taking a report that you intend to write, now add a
                                        description of your audience using the bullet points
                                        above.




Getting Started With The Report
Even if it may seem logical to start writing with an
                                    Introduction, this is probably not the best place -
                                    indeed, it could be argued that it is easier to write this at
                                    the very end (when the whole 'story' of the
                                    project is clear). Most researchers find it easiest to begin
                                    with the literature review (if the report requires one). There
                                    are a number of reasons for this:
The review will normally have been conducted at an early
                                            stage of the research and so can be attempted well
                                            before the final phases.The process of writing the literature review helps to
                                            articulate the objectives, focus and direction of the
                                            research.The literature review, of course, can always be updated
                                            and improved at a later stage, but writing a first draft
                                            early in the research can provide a solid theoretical
                                            and directional underpinning to the entire project.
                                            Where you start is obviously up to you. The only point
                                            to emphasize is that you should get started on the
                                            writing process as soon as possible!
Many researchers have difficulty in making the transition between
                                    reading books and articles and constructing a literature review.
                                    If they find the writing up stage challenging, they may indulge
                                    in 'displacement' activities which comprise
                                    endless reading but no writing! To avoid this, the best strategy
                                    is to:
Read books, academic articles, conference papers, etc.
                                            Make notes and/or summaries.From the ideas generated by the literature (using
                                            notes/summaries), identify some main themes; type these
                                            into a document.Organize the themes into a logical structure; add
                                            sub-themes if possible.As themes are added, note the author/source; build up a
                                            number of authors/sources for each theme or
                                            sub-theme.Read more sources if necessary, make notes and summaries
                                            and add the source to existing themes or if necessary
                                            start a new theme.Once the structure is complete, flesh out each theme
                                            into an argument, supporting each argument with
                                            reference to the sources identified.



Making And Using Time
In writing a report, time is one of the most precious, but probably
                                least available, commodities you have at your disposal. It is
                                important, then, to use it wisely and to make as much time available
                                to writing the report as possible. Good project management is the
                                key. At the very start of the research process, you should have
                                allocated a block of time (days, weeks or even months, depending on
                                the scale of the project), for the report writing process. Within
                                this elapsed time schedule, you should also have planned for the
                                writing sessions you need in order to complete the report. If your
                                research and data gathering efforts have overlapped into the report
                                writing phase, then you need to evaluate whether you can complete
                                the report in the planned time, or whether you need to negotiate an
                                extension. What is vital here is that you take some control of
                                decisions, and do not leave requests for extensions until the last
                                minute.
As far as the report writing process is concerned, people tackle this
                                in different ways. According to Saunders et al. (2012), most people
                                can write about 2,000 words in a day, but this will depend on their
                                experience, confidence and the complexity of the subject. Some
                                people prefer to devote large blocks of time to writing and to keep
                                going into the night until exhaustion overwhelms them. Others prefer
                                to allocate discrete blocks, spread across a time period. What is
                                important is that, whatever your preferred style, the time resource
                                you allocate yourself is
                                sufficient to get the job done. Whatever time you have planned for
                                yourself, you obviously want to make the best use of it. In doing
                                this you might want to:
Find a place to work where distractions are minimized and
                                        where you can think clearly.Write at a time of day when you are physically and mentally
                                        fresh. Take regular breaks.Have access to all the resources you are going to need (a
                                        computer for word processing, keeping notes, files, data,
                                        and for data analysis, etc.).Set yourself challenging but realistic goals for each
                                        writing session. This might be a word count - in
                                        which case, you could keep a record of your production
                                        achievements.
Of course, the report writing process is made more complicated if it
                                is a team effort. The general principles, however, are the same.
                                Plan for the writing of the report and allocate roles and
                                responsibilities. Set deadlines and meet or communicate regularly to
                                see if all team members are on track. Since the timing of the report
                                is now dependent on the speed of the slowest member, it is often
                                prudent to have contingency plans in case the process is held up.
                                For example, can another member of the team or additional staff
                                resources be drafted in to write some more sections or to provide
                                assistance?

Top Tip 26.1
In preparing to write the report, consider how you are going to
                                    reward yourself as you write it. We all need incentives. For
                                    some people, merely keeping a word count of how they are
                                    progressing is enough. Others require more tangible incentives
                                    such as chocolate, or going out for a meal as key sections or
                                    chapters are completed!



Getting Down To Writing The Report
Some people like to leave the report writing phase to a time when
                                they have amassed all their data. This, however, can be a mistake,
                                partly because it is leaving the most vital phase right until the
                                end. A better approach is to start the writing from day one. This
                                will give you the satisfaction of achieving some
                                'output' and, even more importantly, will provide you
                                with practice at writing skills. Writing up chapters or at least
                                sections as you go along will both develop your writing style, and
                                also allow you to elicit feedback from your supervisor.

Top Tip 26.2
A useful tip is to keep a research diary to note ideas as they
                                    crop up, to keep notes of your meetings with your supervisor and
                                    to provide a reminder of which sources (books, academic
                                    articles) you have ordered and when.



Students often find structuring their report or thesis difficult,
                                often because they find themselves immersed and drowning in detail.
                                A useful approach is to reorganize material by creating mind maps,
                                diagrams that illustrate how concepts and ideas relate to one
                                another (see On the Web
                                26.1 below). Using mind maps can be particularly useful when trying
                                to understand and describe the interrelationships between a large
                                number of concepts or theoretical models. In dissertations or
                                theses, then, mind maps can be particularly useful when structuring
                                and writing up the literature stage.

On The Web 26.1
Take a look at the Inspiration software at the website:

http://www.inspiration.com/productinfo/

Download a trial copy and experiment mind mapping your study
                                    outline.




Managing Your Supervisor
If you are studying for an academic qualification it is likely
                                    that you will have a tutor or supervisor to guide you,
                                    especially at the writing-up stage. Supervisors are a vital
                                    resource of knowledge, wisdom and experience, but are not always
                                    used well by students, partly because we all find it hard to
                                    accept critical feedback. Yet such feedback is essential if the
                                    research output is to reach the necessary standard.

Employability Skill 26.2

Working With A Supervisor To Achieve
                                            Accreditation
When being given feedback, either face-to-face or through
                                            written comments, try to resist the temptation to be
                                            defensive and start justifying yourself. Any critique
                                            your supervisor offers is designed to help you and
                                            should be taken as such. In order to gain the maximum
                                            benefit from your supervisor, make sure that you provide
                                            him or her with sections or chapters of written material
                                            well in advance of any meeting you may have booked. It
                                            is no good turning up for a supervision session with a
                                            rough draft your supervisor has had no time to read. You
                                            will also get more benefit if you provide your
                                            supervisor with 'good' rather than very
                                            rough drafts, as the feedback will be able to focus on
                                            'polishing' the material, rather than
                                            concentrating on basics such as spelling, punctuation
                                            and structure. At the end of each meeting with your
                                            supervisor, agree a set of achievable goals to implement
                                            before the next meeting.






The Report Structure
The structure of the report will very much depend on what type of report
                            you are producing and for whom. There are, essentially, two kinds of
                            readers: those who commissioned or who are expecting the report, and
                            those who are not expecting the report but who may, none the less, be
                            interested in it. The commissioning group will want to know if this is
                            the report they were waiting for and whether it contains the information
                            they need. The second group will want to know if the report has any
                            relevance to them, and whether it contains any new information.
                            Therefore, for both groups, you need to give the audience information
                            quickly and in an accessible
                            way. It must compete for their limited time and attention. The kinds of
                            criteria readers might apply in deciding whether they read the report or
                            not might include:
The title - does this sound relevant or interesting to
                                    me?Do the contents of the report actually match the title?How long is the report - what is my investment of time
                                    going to be and is it worthwhile?How well presented is the report - how confident am I in
                                    the abilities of the writer?
The structure of a report is made clear when some of the principles of
                            typography are applied for heading structures. Many students simply use
                            the same font type and size for all headings, but this can be confusing.
                                Table 26.1 shows how typography
                            (the size and style of fonts) can be used to illustrate to the reader
                            where they are in the structure of the piece. These styles can be set up
                            in Word quite easily by clicking on [Format] and then [Styles and
                            Formatting]. Click on the small downward arrow on the style you want to
                            set up and click on [Modify] then [Format].




Writing Organizational And Technical Reports
A business report is taken to mean any report written for the
                                purposes of general management or organization, whereas a technical
                                report has, obviously, a more specifically technical focus. Of
                                course, organizational research can often involve the need to
                                understand and act upon technical issues. Some business and
                                technical reports may be written for publication in an academic
                                journal, and so will tend to follow the structure discussed later.
                                Technical reports may be written for organizational purposes and be
                                commissioned or sponsored by an individual or committee within the
                                organization. When undertaking reports of this kind, both you and
                                the sponsor need to be clear about:
The objectives of the report.Access to resources needed to complete it.Timescales for delivery.The extent to which the report is purely descriptive or
                                        analytical. If the latter, are recommendations
                                        required?The importance, or otherwise, of theoretical underpinning.
                                        This, of course, is essential for academic journal articles
                                        but may be irrelevant for some kinds of technical
                                        report.The final intended audience for the report (which may not
                                        actually be the initial sponsor) and the style, tone and
                                        structure that the report should adopt.



Writing Technical Reports


In contrast to academic articles, business and technical reports tend
                                to be much more utilitarian and 'to the point'. White
                                (1997) suggests the following typical structure, but this should not
                                be adhered to rigidly - select sections according to your
                                needs.
Cover: A
                                well-designed cover can help to attract a reader's attention
                                and give a positive impression about the report before it is even
                                read. White (1997) recommends that a cover should include at least
                                four elements: a descriptive title of the report; the names of the
                                report's principal authors, investigators and editors, if
                                applicable; publication number, if the organization requires a
                                record of this; and the publication date.
Title page: This is the first page of the report and repeats
                                some of the cover content. For example, it contains a descriptive
                                title of the report, the author's name and the
                                organization's name and address. This page can also include
                                the name of the person who commissioned the report.
Abstract/executive summary: This is designed for busy people
                                who do not usually have the time to read a report in its entirety,
                                and may be between 200 and 500 words long. This summary, then, has
                                to be both comprehensive in its coverage but also very succinct. It
                                should present a short description of the project, plus findings and
                                recommendations. Figures, illustrations and tables are not used.
Table of contents: White (1997) recommends that a table of
                                contents should be used for reports that are over 10 pages long. The
                                table of contents shows all main headings and even sub-headings.
                                Since all headings should fully describe each section, the table of
                                contents not only provides a guide to finding sections, it can
                                actually help to describe what a document is about. Most word
                                processing application programmes will generate a table of contents
                                automatically, but only if you have formatted your report by
                                allocating a style (for example, Heading 1, Heading 2, etc.) to your
                                headings.
List of symbols, abbreviations, definitions: If your report
                                contains complex terms, abbreviations or definitions, then it is
                                helpful to provide an explanation at the beginning. Of course, you
                                will still be required to explain each new term or abbreviation in
                                the main body of your text as it occurs. For example, you will write
                                'Human Resource Management (HRM)' before alluding to
                                HRM in the remainder of the report.
Introductory material: This might include any of the
                                following:
The nature of the problem being addressed.Why the research was undertaken.Any limitations on resources, materials or time in
                                        undertaking the research.The scope of the research (for example, did the study look
                                        at the problem from the perspective of individual employees,
                                        departments, sites or the entire organization?).An outline of previous work on this topic.
Report of work done: This will probably be the longest section
                                and will, obviously, be determined by your subject, which might
                                be:
A new product or service. Readers may be interested
                                        in its potential uses, the risks involved, and its
                                        technical, financial and material requirements. They may
                                        also be interested in the life cycle of the product or
                                        service, its potential competitors and plans for its
                                        development.Technical or managerial problems. Readers may be
                                        interested in the origins and nature of the problem, whether
                                        it is temporary or permanent, options for solving the
                                        problem, and which option is selected and why. They may also
                                        want to know how and when the recommendations are going to
                                        be implemented, and what the outcomes are likely to be.
One of the weaknesses of many reports is that the main findings are
                                buried in the middle or end of the document. Hence, busy managers or
                                supervisors will have to spend time delving for the nub of the
                                argument. But this is not just an issue of time; it is also one of
                                cognition and understanding. By presenting the important findings or
                                arguments first, subsequent information can then be used to
                                supplement and support them. Readers find it easier to process and
                                    assimilate detailed
                                information if they are first given a general framework to work
                                with. This is not to argue that there may not be reports where the
                                argument proceeds like a detective story with the
                                'solution' arriving at the end, but most readers of
                                business reports will be both irritated and confused by this
                                approach and will want you to get to the point! Herbert (1990)
                                offers a helpful suggestion here: imagine that you have been asked
                                to appear on a serious radio programme to explain your report. Think
                                of how you would have to quickly and succinctly explain what you
                                have been investigating, how, why and with what results.
Turk and Kirkman (1989) suggest that reports should be written using
                                a pyramid structure (see Figure
                                    26.1). Since only the first few pages of the report will be
                                read by most readers in an organization, this should contain an
                                accurate summary of the main substance of the report (see
                                    Abstract/executive summary, above). The most detailed
                                information, including appendices, will be included at the end of
                                the document.



Organizational Report Checklist


Figure 26.1
                                    Pyramid of evidence model for report designSource: Adapted from Turk and
                                    Kirkman, 1989
The main aim of the business report should be to put over the
                                information needed, to those that require it, so that something can
                                be done. It is not an exercise in writing down everything you have
                                learned about the subject, no matter how interesting (to you) this
                                may be. It is worth, however, just qualifying this last statement.
                                It might be worthwhile noting problems encountered in undertaking
                                the research, the false starts made and negative findings recorded,
                                so that other researchers may learn from your experience. Managers
                                who delve this far may also note some of the 'side
                                issues' you were not able to pursue, so that further research
                                might be commissioned. But, overall, try to maintain the focus of
                                the report - keep to the point!
Results/findings: This section should not be a 'dumping
                                ground' for all your research data. Most of the data sets
                                will probably be presented in the appendices. The results section
                                should contain summaries of the data that focus on the main findings
                                of the research. For clarity, it helps if data can be presented in
                                the form of tables or graphs. Note that the Results section should
                                concentrate precisely on this and not discuss the findings. The
                                Discussion section comes next.
Discussion and analysis: This section is where you have an
                                opportunity to draw inferences from the results (what do the data
                                mean?), look at relationships between sets of data and also
                                differences. What was unexpected? What were the causes and what are
                                the likely effects. What do the results mean in terms of options for
                                action? It must be stressed that the Discussion is not an
                                opportunity merely to repeat the results, although reference may
                                need to be made to the findings in drawing out the threads of the
                                analysis. Remember, the Results tell you what has happened, the
                                Discussion/Analysis section aims to understand how and why it
                                happened.
Conclusions:
                                Conclusion could be merely a number of remarks that 'round
                                off' the report, or it could mean a 'logical
                                outcome' of the report's arguments. The latter is
                                probably preferable in most cases. A conclusion should not be used
                                to repeat findings or facts - it should contain a series of
                                statements that bring together, in a succinct format, what the study
                                has discovered. Berry (2004) warns that Conclusions should not
                                present new evidence, but should relate back to the original purpose
                                and focus of the report.
Recommendations: These should flow logically from the evidence
                                presented by the report, so that there should be no sudden surprises
                                for the reader. This section should also focus completely on these
                                recommendations and not contain other material such as data or
                                discussion that has already been presented. Recommendations are
                                usually presented in a concise format, so the use of a list is
                                entirely appropriate. White (1997) advises that a recommendations
                                section is only relevant if the author has been commissioned to make
                                such recommendations.
Acknowledgements: Turk and Kirkman (1989) recommend limiting
                                acknowledgements to those outside the organization that have
                                provided you with help, and only if this assistance is beyond what
                                one would normally expect from someone in their position. This
                                section should not be used to flatter those who are acknowledged,
                                but to provide the reader with a sense of where some of the
                                information originated.
References: This will be used for citing all the books,
                                journal articles, reports, websites and internal organizational
                                documents used in the study. Only those sources that are actually
                                referenced in the report should be cited, not all those that you
                                read but did not necessarily use. If you want to refer to documents
                                that you are not referencing but which readers might find useful,
                                then place these in a Bibliography section. You might also want to
                                indicate why these sources might be useful.
Appendix for tables, figures and graphs: Some of these tables
                                and figures will probably appear in the main body of the report.
                                Ensure that they are not gratuitous, that is, they should be there
                                for a purpose. Also make sure that they are referred to and
                                described in the body of the text (and not just dumped to stand on
                                their own), and that they appear as close to this description as
                                possible. The citation 'Table' should appear above the
                                table to which it refers, while the citation 'Figure'
                                should appear below the figure. This is the convention. More
                                detailed data can be summarized in tables, figures and graphs in the
                                appendix.
Other appendices: These should include any research
                                instruments you have used, such as questionnaires, interview or
                                observation schedules, and any accompanying documentation such as
                                letters sent to survey participants. They might also include copies
                                of emails or other communications generated during the process of
                                the research (but remember not to breach confidentiality by
                                revealing the names of research subjects without their permission).
                                Whatever topic is covered in an appendix, it is important that there
                                is a reference to the appendix and its purpose in the main body of
                                the report.


Writing Academic Theses And Dissertations
An academic thesis or dissertation is very different to an
                                organizational or technical report in that it is usually more
                                comprehensive and expansive. It seeks to marshal all the relevant
                                information that relates to the topic or problem, and to support all
                                data and arguments with sources of evidence, so that the way in
                                which a case is built up can be judged (Halpenny, 2003). It also
                                seeks to be original. According to Phillips and Pugh (2000), this
                                could include:
Carrying out empirical work that has not been done
                                        before.Using already known material but with a new
                                        interpretation.Replicating a study that has been done in another country or
                                        context.Bringing new evidence to bear on an old issue.



University Thesis Guidelines Example


How a thesis or
                                dissertation is structured will partly depend on the nature of the
                                research itself, but it is sound advice to sketch out an intended
                                outline at as early a stage as possible. Clearly, this tentative
                                outline may change during the research or writing up process, but it
                                does give the writer a sense of structure and direction (Teitelbaum,
                                1998). The usual convention for the layout is as follows:
Title page (which should contain the title, the name of the
                                        author and qualifications, a statement of the degree for
                                        which the document is being presented, the names of the
                                        academic School or Department of the University or college
                                        and the date of submission).The Abstract (a summary - usually of not more than
                                        300 words - of the content of the thesis).Contents page (a listing, giving precise headings for each
                                        section and their page numbers).Acknowledgements (thanking people and organizations that
                                        have assisted in the work).The main body of the thesis. This could comprise an
                                        Introduction, several chapters dealing with a review of the
                                        literature and comprising theoretical issues and arguments
                                        (recall Chapter 3), Research
                                        Methodology, plus Findings, Analysis and Conclusion and/or
                                        Recommendations.Appendices (if any).References (a complete listing of all works cited).
As indicated above, we begin, naturally, with the title page -
                                but this does not mean that the title is the starting point for
                                writing. As Thomas (2013) comments, academic writing is a creative
                                process and often any draft or provisional title will change by the
                                time the writing is finished. What is important is that the title
                                closely fits with what has been written. Similarly, the Introduction
                                chapter (often just a few pages in length) will usually be written
                                after the completion of the research and will often contain:
A broad review, putting the work within a wider
                                        context.A coherent argument for the significance of the problem
                                        being considered.An outline of the thesis, showing how the problem was
                                        approached.
The final chapter may contain:
A brief restatement of the problem, now seen from the
                                        perspective of what has been learned.A clear outline of what has been achieved.A discussion of the main recommendations for work in the
                                        future.
Between these chapters, of course, we have the all-important
                                literature review. So, what is the balance in terms of size between
                                all these chapters? Thomas (2013) offers a useful outline, as
                                presented in Table 26.2.

Top Tip 26.3
A very common mistake is that the literature review part of the
                                    dissertation reads like a 'laundry list of previous
                                    studies' (Rudestam and Newton, 2007: 46). Hence, every
                                    paragraph begins, 'Brown found that...', or
                                    'Fletcher argues...'. Recall Figure 5.1 in Chapter 5 and the advice
                                    that you should gradually synthesize and focus your ideas, so
                                    that all material is linked to the central direction of the
                                    study. By the time the reader reaches the Methodology section,
                                    he or she should be saying to themselves: 'Yes, these are
                                    the questions I too am asking myself and this is what the study
                                    should focus on so that knowledge in the field can move
                                    forward.'









Writing For Academic Journals
You may undertake research with the specific intention of submitting
                                the outcome for publication to an academic journal, or you may have
                                written a thesis and want to see an edited version of it published.
                                Berry (2004) warns that editors and publishers loathe theses. This
                                is because they are written in a cumbersome academic style where
                                length is relatively unrestricted. For a professional reading
                                public, the material will have to be completely reworked, with a
                                succinct and taut prose.



Academic Journal Writing Checklist



Selecting The Right Journal
It is also not enough just to decide that you want to publish an
                                    article in a journal. The question is: which journal? All
                                    journals require contributors to adhere to a specific format.
                                    This is usually stated within the journal itself, and normally
                                    gives guidance on the structure of articles, writing style,
                                    reference system, length and so on. Obviously, this is the first
                                    place to look if your report is being written for publication.
                                    But you will also find it useful to go beyond this formal
                                    outline and in particular to look at:
The types of articles that have been recently published.
                                            What kinds of subjects are of interest to the readers of
                                            this journal? Are the research approaches mainly
                                            quantitative, qualitative or a mixture of the two, and
                                            what epistemological traditions do they follow?The formality, or otherwise, of the academic style. In
                                            most journals, you should expect a very formal style to
                                            be adopted, using the past tense and the passive voice
                                            (for example, 'Fieldwork was undertaken using a
                                            structured observation schedule. It was then decided
                                            to...').The depth and content of the academic underpinning.
                                            Review the reference section of a number of articles.
                                            How lengthy is the typical reference section? Is any
                                            particular research paradigm favoured?
As Berry (2004) notes, it is usually better to have details of
                                    your selected journal's format before writing the article
                                    rather than after. The following case study provides an example
                                    of what to look out for.


Case Study 26.1

Typical Structure For An Academic Journal
                                            Article (Abridged)
Aims And Scope
Human Relations is an international peer reviewed
                                            journal, which publishes the highest quality original
                                            research to advance our understanding of social
                                            relationships in and around work through theoretical
                                            development and empirical investigation.
Human Relations seeks high-quality research papers
                                            that extend our knowledge of social relationships at
                                            work and organizational forms, practices and processes
                                            that affect the nature, structure and conditions of work
                                            and work organizations.
Human Relations welcomes manuscripts that seek to
                                            cross disciplinary boundaries in order to develop new
                                            perspectives and insights into social relationships and
                                            relationships between people and organizations.
Human Relations encourages strong empirical
                                            contributions that develop and extend theory as well as
                                            more conceptual papers that integrate, critique and
                                            expand existing theory.
Submission checklist:
Read our Aims and scope, Mission statement,
                                                  Guidance for contributors, Data requirements and
                                                  How to prepare your submission belowPrepare an electronic version of your cover
                                                  letter providing details about online versions,
                                                  data set usage elsewhere, etc.Prepare an electronic version of your manuscript
                                                  in Microsoft Word that does not exceed 35
                                                  correctly formatted pages in totalRead How to help readers find your article
                                                  online and check that your title, abstract and
                                                  keywords all help to make your article more
                                                  discoverable in online searchesPrepare your reference listRead How to submit your article online
                                                  belowSubmit your manuscript online at: http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/hr


Source: Adapted and abridged from Human
                                                Relations (SAGE Publishing)



Activity 26.3
Locate at least two academic journals that cover issues
                                        within the subject field of your report or thesis. Looking
                                        at both the 'Notes for Contributors' and the
                                        kinds of articles published, are there any significant
                                        differences between the journals in terms of:
Subject areas.Emphasis on approaches to research
                                                (qualitative/quantitative) and epistemology.Theoretical underpinning in the articles.Emphasis on original, empirical work as against
                                                descriptions of other people's research.



You will note from Case Study 26.1 that the journal editors have
                                    made it as transparent as possible as to what they are looking
                                    for. Note also that they want empirical research, not a
                                    reworking of past articles or reports. They also provide a list
                                    of the kinds of articles they are looking for.
You might want to
                                    select a journal that focuses on the subject of your report. On
                                    the other hand, you might argue that the journal has failed to
                                    publish anything on your subject and that your article would
                                    make a vital contribution. This may be so, but do check that the
                                    subject is one that is covered in the general rubric of subjects
                                    of interest. If you are in doubt about whether a journal might
                                    publish your work, you can send an abstract to the journal
                                    editor asking if the subject would be worthy of
                                    consideration.


Article Submission And Outcomes
These days most article submission is online, using the website
                                    Manuscript Central. Figure 26.2 illustrates the
                                    part of the Manuscript Central site used by the journal
                                        Management Learning, but most journals will have a
                                    site that looks something like this. If you have not registered
                                    for the site you will have to do so, creating your own login.
                                    Once logged in, you will see buttons to take you to either a
                                    'Reviewer Center' (for academics peer reviewing
                                    the articles of others), or an 'Author Center'. To
                                    submit an article, go to the Author Center, where you will see
                                        Click
here
to submit a new manuscript. In doing this you will
                                    complete a number of boxes including the title, an abstract
                                    summarizing the article and some keywords. You also have an
                                    opportunity to submit a covering letter with any comments you
                                    want to make to the editor and reviewers (if it is sent out for
                                    review). This is not an opportunity to recapitulate the
                                    rationale, objectives and research methodology and results of
                                    the research. The editor will see these clearly from the actual
                                    article. The purpose of your letter is simply to offer the
                                    article for consideration and to thank the editor for his or her
                                    time. You then upload the file containing your article and
                                    submit it.



Using Scholar One


Figure
                                            26.2 The Manuscript Central site for the journal
                                            Management Learning
Once you have submitted an article to an academic journal the
                                    Manuscript Central website will send you an automated
                                    acknowledgement that the article has been received by the
                                    editor. You can then sit back for weeks, and probably months,
                                    before you hear whether it is to be published. This is because
                                    the article first of all has to be accepted by the editor as
                                    worthy of further consideration (many are rejected at this stage
                                    without ever being sent out for review), after which it will
                                    usually be sent to two or perhaps three peer reviewers. The
                                    review process is
                                    'blind', that is, your name will not be divulged
                                    to the reviewers, who will work completely independently on
                                    their evaluations. The reviewers will recommend one of the
                                    following:
Publish with no revisionsPublish with minor revisionsPublish with major revisionsReject
While 1 or 2 are obviously what all writers want to hear,
                                    response 3 still should be treated as a success because this
                                    means that the reviewers consider the article as interesting and
                                    relevant to the journal. It frequently happens that one reviewer
                                    likes the article and recommends publication and another rejects
                                    it. The editor then has to either make a casting decision, or
                                    may send the article out for further review. Not surprisingly
                                    all this takes time. You are entitled to make the occasional
                                    inquiry as to how the review process is going (just in case the
                                    busy editor has forgotten about you!), but it is best not to
                                    pester editors too much. They have a difficult and often
                                    thankless, unpaid task. If making revisions, help the reviewers
                                    by constructing a two column table, with the left hand column
                                    listing the reviewers' comments and recommendations and
                                    the right hand column listing what you have done and where the
                                    changes can be found. If there are recommendations you do not
                                    want to make, say so and explain your reasons.


Typical Outline For An Academic Article
It would be wrong to be dogmatic about this, but presented below
                                    is a typical structure.
Title page: This includes the title itself, that should
                                    neatly summarize the main focus of the article. The title page
                                    should also include the name of the author and her/his
                                    institution, and acknowledgements (especially if the research
                                    has received external funding or assistance). The actual title
                                    itself should be short, and should specify exactly what the
                                    article is about. If the title is rather long, you could
                                    consider using the less significant element of it as a
                                    'strap line'. For example:

The influence of improved process control systems and
                                        resource allocation on widget production through the use of
                                        a case study.

This could read:

Case study: widget production improvement - process
                                        control systems and resource allocation.

Abstract: The abstract provides a concise summary of the
                                    article (often between 150 and 200 words). The actual length of
                                    the abstract will usually be specified by the journal's
                                    Notes for Contributors. This is a very important section because
                                    it may be the only part of the article that some people read.
                                    Herbert (1990) suggests that the abstract should contain:
The main hypothesisA synopsis of the methods usedA summary of the major findingsA brief mention of subjects and materialsThe conclusions based on the resultsDesign procedures
In addition to the abstract, and perhaps adjacent to it, some
                                    journals ask for a list of keywords. In paper-based versions of
                                    the journal, these can provide readers with an indication of
                                    whether they want to read the article or not. For Web-based
                                    abstracting services, typing in one of these keywords will link
                                    another researcher to a list of articles containing this
                                    keyword, including your article.
Introduction:
                                    This explains the purpose of the study, the rationale for
                                    undertaking it and some background information. The Introduction
                                    also provides an opportunity to outline the main research
                                    questions and hypotheses (if any). If the research is based on
                                    findings in an organization, it is useful to provide the reader
                                    with some additional details on, say, the history of the
                                    organization, its size, products or services, mission, etc.
Literature review: After reading the literature review,
                                    the reader should understand why the study is being undertaken
                                    and how and why it is adding to the store of knowledge. A
                                    literature review written for an academic journal will usually
                                    be shorter than the kind of very comprehensive review that would
                                    be written for an academic thesis or dissertation. It should be
                                    self-evident after reading the literature review as to why the
                                    study's research questions (and hypotheses, if any) have
                                    been selected. Take care, however, not to merely label this
                                    section 'Literature review' even though this is
                                    what it is. Help and inspire the reader by choosing a title that
                                    reflects what the section is really about. If several themes or
                                    issues are being addressed, it may be necessary to write a
                                    number of literature sections, each with an appropriate
                                    heading.
Methodology: This is a key section and will be evaluated
                                    meticulously by reviewers and readers, and, of course, by anyone
                                    seeking to replicate the findings. The methodology should follow
                                    the principles outlined in many chapters in this book,
                                    including:
A description of the research context: what kind of
                                            organization or setting, what were the original
                                            specifications for the study, what practical or ethical
                                            considerations were evident?The processes of sample selection: how was the sample
                                            selected? When was it selected: at the commencement of
                                            the study, or iteratively during it?A description of, and justification for, the sample: how
                                            many participants were there, what were their
                                            characteristics and how representative were they of the
                                            population?The research procedure, including the kinds of research
                                            methodology (experimental, survey, grounded study,
                                            etc.), research tools used and evidence for the
                                            validity, reliability and credibility of these
                                            tools.The duration, number and timing of the data gathering
                                            sessions: if used, how were interviewers or observers
                                            trained, what instructions were given to
                                            respondents?How were the data analysed?
Results: As the title suggests, this is the section in
                                    which you report on your findings. This may be in the form of
                                    descriptive text, tables and figures (recall Chapter 17) or through selected quotations. The key
                                    word here is 'selected'. Quotations should only be
                                    used where the comments themselves are revealing or interesting
                                    - they should not be used to carry the main burden of a
                                    description or argument. Quotations should also be used
                                    sparingly; try to avoid the phenomenon of 'death by
                                    quotation'.
Ensure that the results section is precisely this and not a
                                    discussion or commentary (which comes in the following section).
                                    The easiest way of differentiating between the two sections is
                                    that the Results should deal with what happened, while the
                                    Discussion section should deal with why (that is, the analysis).
                                    Make sure that you do not mix the two.
Discussion: The Discussion section, using the data
                                    (Results), presents answers to the original research questions
                                    and/or hypotheses. In doing this, it is particularly important
                                    to refer back to the literature review section, so that
                                    comparisons and contrasts can be drawn out between what your
                                    research found and what the literature suggested you might
                                    expect. In some cases you may be confirming the theoretical
                                    propositions from the literature, but within new (say,
                                    organizational) contexts. In other cases you may be finding
                                    relationships between variables that few studies have explored.
                                    Remember, all research does not have to be so original or unique
                                    that it puts you in line for a Nobel Prize. Nevertheless, unless
                                    it has something to add to knowledge, it is unlikely to be
                                    considered worthy of publication.
References:
                                    There are several types of referencing convention, one of the
                                    most widely used being the Harvard or author-date system,
                                    as used in this book.
Of course, what we have just discussed is quite a conventional
                                    format. Journals that take a more inductive, qualitative or
                                    ethnographic stance may discourage such a structured approach.
                                    The key, as has been suggested, is to look at these journals to
                                    see what approach they take.

Employability Skill 26.3

Making Reference To Alternative
                                            Perspectives
In writing the article, take care to not only present and
                                            justify the main arguments, but to also make reference
                                            to alternative and even contrasting interpretations and
                                            perspectives.






Ethical And Legal Considerations
We have dealt with ethical issues in a number of previous chapters, but
                            it is worth exploring some of them here in the context of writing up the
                            research as well as looking at legal and copyright implications.

The Ethics Of Report Writing
Researchers have a responsibility for reporting their findings in a
                                way that matches the data and which upholds the reputation of the
                                researcher and the research community. However, as Table 26.3 shows, there is a
                                spectrum of unethical behaviour in reporting research ranging from
                                speculation to fabrication, the latter, of course, being the most
                                serious. For example, it is important not to make interpretations
                                that are inconsistent with the data or to make claims for the
                                validity and generalizability of research that are exaggerated. Not
                                only is it important that researchers do not make false claims (for
                                example that a set of results are statistically significant, when
                                they just failed to reach significance), they have a duty to speak
                                out when clients or organizations in which they have conducted the
                                research make such claims in public. Especially in cases where a
                                research report is going to be presented to the organization in
                                which the research was conducted, the limitations of the research
                                must be clearly in evidence so that the organization is not misled.
                                Polonsky (1998), for example, suggests that the research report
                                should contain a section in which the potential problems and
                                limitations of the research are explained. Academic supervisors
                                could also append their comments regarding the limitations of the
                                final report.


Source: Adapted from Blumberg et
                                    al., 2005




Avoiding Plagiarism
Plagiarism is becoming of increasing concern in the research
                                community, partly because the growth of the Internet has made it
                                easier. Plagiarism has many meanings, and is still the subject of
                                much debate, but essentially refers to the submission of the words,
                                ideas, images, or data of another person as one's own.
                                Researchers can be confused about this, because they have to use the
                                work of previous researchers to identify the kinds of questions that
                                are worthy of research and the designs and methodologies needed to
                                find the answers. According to Higher Education and Research
                                Opportunities in the UK (HERO) (2007), plagiarism takes several
                                forms, including:
Using published ideas as one's own.Representing images from books, journals or information
                                        published on the Web as one's own.Copying the work of another student or another person and
                                        presenting it as one's own.Collaborating inappropriately with another student when the
                                        assignment or report requires individual work.Resubmitting substantive excerpts of your own work from
                                        other assignments as a new piece of work.



Ethics and Plagiarism


Whether the plagiarism is unintentional or deliberate it still
                                constitutes a serious offence, attracting sanctions depending on the
                                institution, ranging from grading the paper at zero marks, or being
                                dismissed from a course. Perpetrators of plagiarism are also now
                                more likely to be caught, thanks largely to the heightened vigilance
                                of academic institutions and the use of innovative computer
                                software. So, how can it be avoided? HERO (2007) suggests that when
                                reading, you keep a notebook handy so that you can note down the
                                name of the author, date and place of publication, page numbers,
                                etc. You can also minimize the risk of plagiarism by:
Quoting directly from the source (but making sure, of
                                        course, that you cite the name of the author and date of
                                        publication).Paraphrasing the author's text but in your own
                                        words.Summarizing the text.

Top Tip 26.4
Never be tempted to cut and paste passages from the Internet into
                                    your own work. This may appear at first sight to be a speedy way
                                    of accessing information, but it is plagiarism. If you do find a
                                    passage that is relevant, print out a 'hard' copy,
                                    read it through, and then paraphrase the content in your own
                                    words as you type your ideas into your assignment or
                                    dissertation.



Business Dissertation Example





Legal Issues
Legal issues might arise through the process of conducting your
                                research, and also at the report writing stage, for example, where
                                you:
Reveal your sources of information and use statements made
                                        by individuals - are they defamatory, libellous or in
                                        breach of sex discrimination laws?Present material - has it been published elsewhere
                                        and is it copyright? (see next section.)Make recommendations - do they infringe the law?
Common sense suggests that
                                whenever you are in doubt about whether anything you have written
                                contravenes a legal provision, you should consult a legal
                                expert.


Intellectual Property And Copyright Issues
Intellectual property (IP) refers to creations of the mind and
                                includes: inventions, literary and artistic works, names, images,
                                symbols and designs. The four main types of IP are:
Patents for inventions - new and improved products
                                        and processes that are capable of industrial
                                        application.Trade marks for brand identity - of goods and
                                        services, allowing distinctions to be made between different
                                        traders.Designs for product appearance.Copyright for material including literary and artistic
                                        material, sound recordings, films, etc.
Copyright laws were first introduced in England in 1710 and now exist
                                in most countries. While the precise nature of national copyright
                                laws varies, the basic premise is that authors need to obtain
                                permission before using another author's document, and must
                                give the author appropriate acknowledgement. Take particular care
                                when tempted to copy material from the Web. While websites are in
                                the 'public domain', this does not mean that they are
                                not protected by copyright laws. It is only safe to copy Web
                                material when the author has abandoned copyright ownership, it is
                                clear that the copyright has expired, or if it is a site owned by
                                the government.
In many countries, what is written by a person while at work,
                                automatically, in most circumstances, becomes the property of their
                                employer. This may well apply to the research report itself.

On The Web 26.2
For more details on copyright laws see the following website:

http://whatiscopyright.org/

In particular take a look at the section on 'Fair
                                    Use'.




Developing A Writing Style And Tone

Employability Skill 26.4

Developing A Writing Style And Tone
It is difficult to exaggerate the importance of developing and
                                    using a fluent, concise and engaging writing style when writing
                                    up research. Put yourself, for a moment, in the place of someone
                                    who has to read your research, often having to wade through a
                                    long, detailed document containing complex arguments. A writing
                                    style that is laborious, repetitive, or simply ungrammatical,
                                    can not only make it hard for the reader to understand the work,
                                    but even make that person hostile to it.



Stylish academic writing






Activity 26.4
Read through the dissertations or theses of previous students to
                                recognize the different 'voices' used. Decide on the
                                voice or style that is most appropriate to you. Write up a chapter
                                or section of a chapter using this voice and ask your supervisor to
                                comment on its style.



The appropriateness of a particular writing style can only be measured in
                            the context of who the report is being written for. Hence, a style that
                            is designed to inspire or enthuse will be very different from one that
                            is meant to criticize or warn. Since the purpose of most reports is
                            functional rather than imaginative, it has been suggested that this
                            style of writing 'should be unobtrusive, an invisible medium,
                            like a window pane through which the information can be clearly
                            seen' (Turk and Kirkman, 1989: 90). Too many writers
                            (particularly those writing scientific or technical documents) use
                            leaden prose, and a stiff, formal style, failing to instill variety into
                            their language.
One of the keys to good style is readability, a factor determined by:
The writer, through the careful selection of material, by
                                    signposting, and by using a variety of emphases.The text, in terms of language (structures and vocabulary) and
                                    layout (e.g., headings).Readers, particularly their motivation and attitudes, and their
                                    overall interest in the report.
Presented next are a number of important areas where writing style can be
                            improved.

Wordiness
Procter (2007) argues that one of the best ways of improving writing
                                style is to be concise - that is, avoiding
                                'wordiness'. A wordy style not only adds unnecessary
                                length to a proposal, thesis, or dissertation, but can give the
                                writing a sense of pomposity. Table
                                    26.4 presents some examples of wordiness and some more
                                succinct alternatives.


Unbiased Language
Sexist, racist and ageist language must also be avoided, of course,
                                and reference made to particular genders, races or ages only when
                                they are relevant to the subject of the report. Procter (2007) warns
                                against what she calls the 'Man trap', that is, the
                                use of standard words that seem to assume that the subject is male.
                                This can be avoided by using phrases such as 'him and
                                her' or 'he or she' but this becomes clumsy.
                                Better is to find a gender-neutral word. For example, rather than
                                say: 'Every novelist has learned from those that came before
                                him or her', you could say: 'Every novelist has
                                learned from previous writers'. Proctor also advises that
                                feminine forms of words such as 'policewoman',
                                'women doctors' are becoming outdated, especially
                                since there are neutral terms available such as 'police
                                officer' and simply 'doctor'. In academic
                                writing, titles such as Dr or Professor are rarely used. So, rather
                                than refer to a source by saying 'Professor Brown
                                argues', it is sufficient (and correct) to say, 'Brown
                                (2008) argues ...'


Sentence Construction
At a practical level, readability is aided by generating a balance
                                between the use of long and short sentences. A report that contains
                                just long, verbose sentences will be difficult to cognitively
                                process and understand; conversely, a report based just on short,
                                staccato sentences will appear disjointed and monotonous. Using
                                sentences that vary in length will aid the reader's
                                attention, concentration and, therefore, understanding. The
                                readability of text can be measured by a variety of indices, one of
                                the most common of which is the Flesch index.



Source: Adapted from Procter,
                                    2007


Activity 26.5
You can measure the readability of the text you are producing
                                    using one of a number of alternative measuring indices such as
                                    the Flesch Reading Ease score and a Flesch-Kincaid Grade
                                    Level score. For the Flesch readability score, text is rated on
                                    a 100-point scale. The higher the score, the easier the text is
                                    to understand. Most documents aim for a score of at least
                                    60-70.
To perform a Flesch readability score on your own report go
                                    to:

http://www.webpagefx.com/tools/read-able/

Copy and past in your text and click on 'Calculate
                                    Readability'.The site explains the meaning of the
                                    results.



Vocabulary
The use of long, technical or unfamiliar words also affects
                                readability. But, it is not the length in itself that is the
                                problem. For example, the word 'organization' has many
                                syllables, but would not
                                cause the average reader any problems. As Turk and Kirkman (1989)
                                warn, it is the combination of unfamiliarity with length that can
                                inhibit readability. Unfamiliarity itself is linked to the frequency
                                with which a word appears. Technical terms, in particular, will only
                                be familiar to an audience that is also knowledgeable and competent
                                in this field. So, in writing technical reports, you need to be
                                particularly careful that either the terms you use are clearly
                                explained, or that they are likely to be well known to your
                                audience. Jargon can be useful because it can be used as a short and
                                convenient way to name new ideas and concepts. Technical reports
                                would be lost without it. But it must also be used with care since,
                                if it is overused, or used in an attempt to give an air of
                                importance, it can obscure the central message of the report.


Nominalization
Turk and Kirkman (1989) warn against the use of nominalization, that
                                is, the habit of turning verbs into nouns. Take, for example, a
                                perfectly good sentence:

The survey collected data on customer attitudes, showing that
                                    ...

Nominalizing the verb in this sentence, 'collected',
                                gives us the following nominalized sentence:

Collection of the data through the survey revealed customer
                                    attitudes, which showed that ...

Nominalization reduces the effectiveness of the written style because
                                it produces a passive sentence and also forces the writer to insert
                                an additional verb, 'revealed'. While it is tempting
                                to use passive forms of writing because they add a sense of
                                detachment and perhaps spurious objectivity to the report, they also
                                make it longer, more complex and lacking in dynamism.


Writing Tone
The tone of a report relates to the general mood of the finished
                                text. It is important, for example, not to betray personal feelings
                                such as anger, frustration, jealousy, resentment or anxiety in the
                                report, even if you are feeling these emotions. The overall tone of
                                a report should reflect the nature of its message.



Undertaking A Review Process
It is difficult to overstate the importance of a review process. After
                            'completing' the report, always regard this as merely the
                            first draft. Leave the document for a few days (if this is possible)
                            before you return to it, so that you will have forgotten the thoughts
                            behind the report and will read what you actually said! You will almost
                            certainly find not only typing and grammatical mistakes, but also gaps,
                            inconsistencies and errors. Turk and Kirkman (1989) suggest first
                            reading the draft without stopping, but noting problem passages or words
                            so that you can return to them later. This top-level overview allows you
                            to evaluate the general flow of information and ideas and to see if the
                            structure 'hangs together'. In conducting this review,
                            Potter (2006) also suggests that you take regular breaks so that you are
                            always fresh and alert. If the report is for an important piece of
                            assessment or intended for a very senior audience, then you will need to
                            go through a number of iterations, ideally using a number of experienced
                            and expert reviewers (see Top Tip
                                26.5 below).
In terms of content, Potter
                            (2006) suggests that the review task should carefully check on:
Content: Check that the main ideas are clear and of
                                    relevance for the reader.Argument: Check that the main line of argument is
                                    transparent, that alternative positions have been considered and
                                    that evidence and citations are provided to support
                                    arguments.Organization: Check that the headings describe the
                                    content beneath them and chapters and sections are in the right
                                    order. Ensure that there is progression from familiar to
                                    unfamiliar topics, and that different issues are dealt with in
                                    different paragraphs. Ensure that links are made between
                                    sections and topics.Language: Check that the style is appropriate to the
                                    intended audience and that meanings are clear.
Also ensure that tables and figures are described and numbered correctly,
                            and sources properly referenced.

Top Tip 26.5
If you are submitting a dissertation or thesis, or an important
                                report, then it is useful getting two quite different kinds of
                                people to act as reviewers. Subject matter experts can tell you
                                whether the content is accurate and whether there are any important
                                gaps. You should also elicit review help from someone totally
                                unfamiliar with the subject area, who can read the work with a
                                detached eye. Try to use the services of someone who is experienced
                                and proficient at report writing and who has a good working
                                knowledge of English grammar. Before submitting a final version of
                                the thesis, you might also consider paying for the services of a
                                professional proof reader.



Summary
Understand the needs and interests of your intended audience and
                                    write for them.Plan the report writing process, allowing yourself sufficient
                                    time to write the report and resources to aid its
                                    completion.Different structures are required for case study reports,
                                    organizational and technical reports, and academic dissertations
                                    and journal articles.A common structure for an organizational report is one that
                                    presents the substantive arguments and findings at the
                                    beginning, using the rest of the report to support them.Dissertations and theses usually contain an Abstract, an
                                    Introduction, several theoretical chapters, plus chapters on
                                    research Methodology, Findings, Analysis and a Conclusion and/or
                                    Recommendations.The precise structure of journal articles is determined by the
                                    journal in question, but such articles will usually contain,
                                    amongst other sections, a strong, theoretical underpinning.Some of the main ethical considerations to think about when
                                    writing up research include maintaining confidentiality and
                                    taking care not to breach copyright laws. Be particularly
                                    careful when copying material from the Web.Style and presentation are important for the impact of a
                                    research report and are improved through practice and
                                    redrafting. Expert reviewers are of value in this process.

Review Questions
What displacement activities do you use for avoiding getting
                                        down to write your thesis, dissertation or report? Compare
                                        your list with those of a colleague and then coach each
                                        other on how to avoid them.Should you write up the report during or at the end of the
                                        research process? Examine your own preferred approach and
                                        then write a list of counter-arguments.If you are studying on a programme in an academic
                                        institution, what software programs does it use for testing
                                        students' work for plagiarism? Can you put your own
                                        work through the system to ensure you do not break any
                                        rules, even unintentionally?



Further Reading
Berry, R. (2004) The Research Project: How to Write it, 5th edn.
                            Oxford: Routledge. Covers themes such as choosing a topic, shaping and
                            composing a project and avoiding common pitfalls. Includes an example of
                            a well written paper along with notes and bibliography.
Roberts, C.A. (2010) The Dissertation Journey: A Practical and
                                Comprehensive Guide to Planning, Writing and Defending your
                                Dissertation, 2nd edn. Thousand Oaks, CA: Corwin. Starts with
                            personal motivation for undertaking a dissertation (do I have what it
                            takes?), through to dealing with Institutional Review Boards, planning
                            the dissertation, getting to grips with academic style, writing the
                            Introduction and Methodology and defending the dissertation at a
                            viva.
Rudestam, K.E. and Newton, R.R. (2007) Surviving your Dissertation: A
                                Comprehensive Guide to Content and Process, 3rd edn. Newbury
                            Park, CA: Sage. Provides practical guidance on selecting topics, and
                            what the literature review, methods and results chapters should
                            contain.
Thomas, G. (2013) How to Do your Research Project: A Guide for
                                Students of Education and Applied Social Sciences, 2nd edn.
                            London: Sage. Very readable and accessible, this book deals not only
                            with academic writing but also offers help with the literature
                            review.


Journal Resources
James, S. (2004) 'Adding value: The presentation of business
                            information', Business Information Review, 21(1):
                            44-52. Argues that presenting the results of business research,
                            and communicating the research results to the right audience can be as
                            important as carrying out the research itself. Offers some guidelines
                            for doing this.
Pratt, M.G. (2009) 'For
                            the lack of a boilerplate: Tips on writing up (and reviewing)
                            qualitative research', Academy of Management Journal,
                            52(5): 856-862. Notes the lack of accepted approach to writing up
                            qualitative research and makes recommendations for achieving the
                            greatest impact.

Don't forget to visit the companion website at https://study.sagepub.com/grayresearchbusiness for the
                                following resources which support this chapter:


















27 Preparing For Business
                        Presentations And For Vivas

Chapter Introduction

Chapter Outline
Preparing the presentationStructuring the presentation: beginning, middle and endStructuring the presentation: the density of ideasCreating interest in presentationsDelivering the presentationTeam presentationsPreparing for and surviving vivasInnovative assessment methods


Keywords
PresentationVisual aidsPhDViva



Icon Key







Author Video







Chapter Objectives
After reading this chapter you will be able to:
Plan and structure a presentation.Deliver a presentation to meet the needs of your
                                        audience.Use visual aids effectively.Deliver a 'professional' presentation.Prepare for and pass a viva.



In Chapter 26 we looked at writing and
                            presenting through the written medium of the report or dissertation. In
                            this chapter, we are going to explore two other common and important
                            communication media - presentations and vivas. Vivas (or viva
                            voces to give them their full title) are oral examinations usually
                            taking place at the end of a programme such as a doctorate. However,
                            they may also, occasionally, be used on masters or other programmes, so
                            preparing for and conducting yourself well at a viva may be a skill you
                            need to acquire.



Oral Examination


In both business and academic environments presentations are also
                            becoming increasingly popular, partly because they allow for two-way
                            communication such as discussions and questioning. For some academic
                            programmes, presentations are assessed instead of, or in addition to,
                            the usual assignments or dissertations. One of the advantages of giving
                            a presentation is that it is possible to gauge the reaction of members
                            of the audience, and to adapt what you are saying to the situation
                            (Billingham, 2003). So, for example, if you see doubt on the faces of
                            your audience, you can inject more enthusiasm and commitment into your
                            presentation. Presentations, of course, also have the advantage of
                            allowing you to use visual aids to enhance both the clarity of your
                            ideas and also their impact.
Many people quake when it comes to the notion of having to give a
                            presentation, often because a lot depends on it. They fear presentations
                            because it means having to stand up in front of other people (a feeling
                            of exposure), with the attendant fears of 'drying up' and
                            of facing the possibility of having to respond to difficult questions
                            from the audience. These are just three fears, but everyone has
                            individual dreads of their own. A survey in the USA (McCarthy and
                            Hatcher, 2002) found that public speaking is the greatest fear people
                            face - even greater than a fear of snakes! Presentations,
                            however, can be both fulfilling and successful (even enjoyable) if you
                            adopt the systematic approach presented in this chapter.


Preparing The Presentation
Preparation and planning are key and include knowing about the needs of
                            your audience and programme, knowing what you want to achieve in the
                            presentation and defining your central message.


Knowing The Audience
Knowing your audience means understanding what it is that they want
                                to know, what they are interested in, whether they agree with or
                                oppose your central arguments, and whether they are likely to find
                                your subject matter useful. You also need to keep in mind the
                                diversity of the audience - some of them might want knowledge
                                while others want to be entertained. You also need to determine how
                                much they already know about your subject, so that you can pitch the
                                presentation at the right level of detail.


Knowing Your Programme
If your presentation is being given as part of an academic programme,
                                then it is absolutely essential that you read and understand the
                                module specifications, particularly when it comes to assessment
                                criteria. Your course handbook or programme website will set out in
                                some detail what these are. Check whether the presentation
                                constitutes all or only a percentage of the total marks for the
                                module. Typically, presentations make up a minority of the marks
                                compared to assignments, but these marks might mean the difference
                                between passing or failing the module, or between gaining a high or
                                lower grade. Look at what content the presentation is required to
                                cover in terms of subject matter. Is the presentation to be made by
                                individuals or as part of a team? Is assessment going to be
                                conducted by the academic in charge of the module, or does it also
                                involve an element of peer assessment? If the latter, how is this to
                                be done? For example, 20 per cent of the final presentation marks
                                might be voted on by others in your class. Design your presentation
                                with close reference to the assessment criteria.


Reconnoitring Facilities
It is always a good idea to reconnoitre the environment in which you
                                will be presenting. The reasons for doing this should be obvious.
                                You might have planned for some group discussion work in the middle
                                of your presentation, but on visiting the room, find that it is a
                                'raked' lecture theatre, making the movement of
                                participants virtually impossible. Or you might find that the room
                                is next to a busy main road and the acoustics are bad, requiring
                                that you speak louder and with more energy or arrange for the use of
                                a microphone. Few elements sabotage a presentation more thoroughly
                                than problems with audio-visual equipment. We have all seen
                                presentations wrecked, for example, by the failure of a projector to
                                work. It is sensible then, if possible, to visit the presentation
                                room well in advance to ensure that all the equipment you need
                                functions properly. Once you have done this, you will find that you
                                will be more relaxed and confident - helping to calm your
                                nerves.



Choosing a Venue




Dealing With Nerves
Most people get nervous before an important presentation. However,
                                good speakers know how to harvest these nerves to their own
                                advantage. They acknowledge to themselves that having some nerves is
                                important to improving performance. Then, they might go on to build
                                their confidence by listing all their personal strengths as
                                presenters and the qualities of the presentation itself. They think
                                positive thoughts, not negative ones (see Table
                                    27.1).



Overcoming Nerves


After this they might mentally move on to focus not on their nerves,
                                but on the central message they are going to convey. In other words
                                they focus on the task, not on themselves.





Activity 27.1
Think of some of the presentations you have given in the past.
                                    Now write down as many positive points as you can under the
                                    heading: 'Why I am a good presenter'.


Top Tip 27.1
Particularly if you have your presentation on a computer hard
                                    drive (rather than using the Cloud), also have it available on
                                    an external memory storage device. Also, email it to yourself so
                                    it can be accessed, if necessary, from the Internet. If you are
                                    presenting at an external institution never assume they have
                                    loaded your presentation for you and that it is 'ready to
                                    go'.




Structuring The Presentation: Beginning, Middle And
                            End

Employability Skill 27.1

Presenting Information In A Logical Sequence
Having a sound structure allows you to be clearer in your mind as
                                    to what you are saying and gives your audience better access to
                                    your information. The basic structure of a good presentation is:
                                    a beginning; a middle; and an end. Each has its own internal
                                    structure.



Structuring a Presentation







The Beginning Of The Presentation
Getting the presentation off to the best possible start is both vital
                                and also challenging. In the first few moments you need to
                                'connect' with your audience, to get yourself relaxed
                                and to relax them. Even if you are nervous (and even experienced
                                speakers can be nervous on occasions), it is unwise to state this out loud as it will only
                                make your audience nervous for you. If this feeling then transmits
                                itself back to you, your nerves may only increase! The best approach
                                is to greet your audience, introduce yourself (especially if there
                                are people in the room who don't know you) and state the
                                title of your presentation. It is also a good idea to tell the
                                audience how long you will be speaking for, and whether they can ask
                                their questions during the presentation or at the end. If you have
                                handouts, make sure that these are distributed before you speak, or
                                at the very end but not as you are speaking, otherwise you will find
                                that people become distracted as they pass the paperwork around.


The Middle Of The Presentation
In the middle of a presentation it is normal to find the audience
                                drifting in and out of full concentration. They will be helped in
                                maintaining focus if the middle phase of the presentation has a
                                clear structure. Billingham (2003) suggests several approaches:

The Inductive Approach
Fact + Fact + Fact + Fact therefore
                                    Conclusion
Here, the audience has to build up their understanding of the
                                    facts before coming to their own conclusion (or at least
                                    validating in their own minds the conclusion they are presented
                                    with). This makes the presentation more interesting but also
                                    much harder work for participants.


The Deductive Approach
Conclusion because Fact + Fact + Fact
                                    + Fact
Here the conclusion or 'answer' is given right at
                                    the start and is then explained or supported by the facts that
                                    follow. This is easier for the audience to understand.


The Discursive Approach
With this approach, both sides of an argument are presented, with
                                    some kind of summary giving a recommendation as to which side is
                                    supported and why. In presenting the arguments, a choice needs
                                    to be made as to whether the case for the proposition is going
                                    to be presented first, or the case against.


Situation, Options, And The Way Forward
This stands for: Situation which is explained; Options which are
                                    presented, including arguments for and against each one; the Way
                                    forward is then presented and justified.



The End Of The Presentation
The end of the presentation is the final opportunity to make an
                                impact. Here it is important not to either tail off into anticlimax,
                                or repeat vast portions of your presentation. The focus here should
                                be on emphasizing a small number of key points, and delivering this
                                stage of the presentation with enthusiasm and energy. Flag to the
                                audience that you have, indeed, reached the end by using signal
                                words such as: 'So, in conclusion',
                                'Lastly', or 'In summary'.




Structuring The Presentation: The Density Of Ideas
The factor that sinks more presentations than any other is the sheer
                            volume of information bad presenters try to convey. Listeners are only
                            capable of remembering two or three key messages. So, you should be
                            absolutely clear what your key messages are. McCarthy and Hatcher (2002)
                            suggest that for a 10-minute presentation, two key points are
                            acceptable, supported by some sub-themes (no more than 3 or 4 for each
                            key point); for a 20-minute presentation, it is four key points plus
                            sub-themes (see Table 27.2).


Source: Adapted from McCarthy and
                                Hatcher, 2002


Presenting Complex Processes
It is often the case that you have to explain quite detailed
                                processes to an audience. This might be to do with, say, the design
                                of a research project, or a software system. If the system is
                                complex and detailed there is plenty of opportunity to confuse and
                                alienate your audience! Think of a presentation you have seen where
                                a diagram is presented and you think: 'Wow! Too detailed!
                                There's no way I'm going to understand this.'
                                The best approach is to adopt the following process:
Present a diagrammatic overview of the entire system;
                                        explain, in summary, the main components of the process, not
                                        the detail.Starting from a blank page, present the first stage of the
                                        system; ask for questions.Present the next stage of the system, linked to the first
                                        stage (in other words, you are building up the picture of
                                        the system in the diagram, step by step, back towards the
                                        overview); ask for questions.Present the next stage, etc., ask for questions.Use plenty of summaries.
By the end you will have a holistic diagram for which you will have
                                explained each section in depth.



Creating Interest In Presentations

Employability Skill 27.2

Generating Interest In The Presentation
Delivering a memorable presentation that has a real impact is
                                    helped if you make use of a number of approaches that add
                                    interest and a more personal touch. This includes the use of
                                    personal stories, metaphors and the skilful use of visual
                                    aids.



Memorable Presentation Tips







Using Personal Stories
People often remember a speaker's presentation if they tell a
                                personal story, especially if that story is original, amusing or
                                shocking. Personal stories allow the audience to
                                'connect' with the speaker, seeing them as a real
                                human being and not merely a presenter delivering a message.
                                Personal stories work best, however, when they are short, and the
                                audience can see a clear connection between the narrative and the
                                main thread of the presentation. But using personal stories also has
                                its risks. If the composition of the audience is diverse, some
                                people from other cultures may not understand it, or may not like
                                it. So, if possible, try to make your stories appealing to as wide a
                                range of cultures as possible.


Using Metaphors
A metaphor is a comparison that shows how two things are similar in
                                one important way, although dissimilar in everything else. So, for
                                example, we could say that having a problem getting someone to
                                change their mind was like 'pulling teeth out'. The
                                metaphor is powerful because it creates a strong visual image (in
                                this case a dental one) that can arouse feelings such as curiosity,
                                fascination or repulsion in the listener. Thinking up a metaphor to
                                describe a situation, person or entity also allows the presenter to
                                use a visual image of the metaphor helping the presentation to avoid
                                a predominance of bullet point slides.

Top Tip 27.2
If you can think of a metaphor that summarizes what you are
                                    trying to say, go to Google images and type in the
                                    metaphor's name. You should find a lot of choices for
                                    images. Import an image by right clicking your mouse and then
                                    [Copy] and [Paste] it into your presentation. But be careful not
                                    to infringe copyright laws.



Activity 27.2
Return to a presentation you have delivered recently. Explore the
                                    slides dominated by bullet points. Try to think of a metaphor or
                                    visual image for each slide; then search for this image in
                                    Google images.



Using Visual Aids
Visual aids have the capacity to enrich and enhance a presentation,
                                but equally, when not used well, they have the capability to wreck
                                it (see Table 27.3). Visual aids such
                                as PowerPoint presentations or the use of flipcharts, whiteboards or
                                blackboards need careful planning and combining with the oral
                                discourse. When done properly, visual aids help listeners to:
Make better sense of the information.Recall key points.Enjoy the presentation.



In designing content you could make use of photos, pictures, charts,
                                video clips and music.
The key is keeping the message simple, not making slides or other
                                visual aids too cluttered, and using visual images rather than
                                words. Avoid the temptation to use all of PowerPoint's
                                tremendous range of font sizes, font types, colours, backgrounds and
                                animation techniques. Keep it simple. In presenting data, for
                                example, you can create graphics such as pie charts or histograms in
                                Microsoft Excel and cut and paste them into your Word document
                                (recall some of the graphics presented in Chapter
                                    23).



Delivering The Presentation
Preparing good looking and visually pleasing visual aids is only half the
                            battle. You also have to deliver the presentation in a way that engages
                            and holds the attention of the audience, and which coordinates with the
                            text and images you are presenting. Unfortunately, what wrecks most
                            presentations is not the visual aids but the delivery. Table 27.4 summarizes some of the
                            'deadly sins' of presenting, which include facing the
                            screen, not the audience, and reading verbatim from notes (again not
                            looking at the audience).





Employability Skill 27.3

Presenting At An Academic Conference
Giving a paper at an academic conference can be particularly
                                    stressful, especially if you are doing this for the first time
                                    or if you are inexperienced. The tips given below are therefore
                                    especially important. Remember, most people in the room will not
                                    have your specialized knowledge of your subject. As long as you
                                    can show you have made the effort to prepare your presentation
                                    they will forgive the occasional verbal stumble.





Gaining Attention
You must start by capturing the attention of your audience. According
                                to McCarthy and Hatcher (2002) an audience decides in about the
                                first 10 seconds of a presentation whether it is worth listening to.
                                There are many ways of capturing attention. You could tell a
                                'scare' story that shows what will happen if the ideas
                                you are about to present are not implemented. Or you could make a
                                controversial statement about the topic. The key is to get the
                                audience 'hooked in'.

Top Tip 27.3
Prepare, prepare, prepare. The more preparation you do, the more
                                    confident you will feel. Preparation means both planning and
                                    also practising delivery. When practising for delivery, it is
                                    best if you can go to where you will be giving your presentation
                                    so that you can get the 'feel' of the room. Make
                                    sure that you practise 'out loud', so that you can
                                    hear for yourself the words you use, the tone and pace of
                                    delivery. If possible, arrange for a friend or colleague to act
                                    as a critical friend so that you can elicit some feedback on
                                    your performance.



Top Tip: Preparing for
                                            Presentations





Using Body Language
In many ways, you are the most important visual aid that you have
                                (Billingham, 2003). An important feature of good presenting is the
                                use of body language, particularly how you stand. Someone slumped in
                                a chair, staring at their notes is unlikely to be perceived as
                                confident and in control
                                of their subject matter. However, if a presenter stands, they can
                                make more effective use of their hands, and better use of their
                                voice. They will appear to the audience as more confident, and so
                                will become more confident. Standing also allows you to
                                'scan' the audience, seeking to gain occasional eye
                                contact with everyone. You can move about, although do not be
                                tempted to do this too much as it can become distracting.


Using Your Voice
Your voice is a vital tool in good presenting. You can use your vocal
                                delivery to place an emphasis on key themes (helping your listeners
                                to know where these key themes are). You can also alter the pace of
                                delivery, slowing down for more detailed sections and even inserting
                                a dramatic pause when a key point requires strong emphasis.


Handling Questions From The Audience
Presenters can sometimes be nervous about taking questions from the
                                audience because they feel that if they cannot answer the questions
                                they will appear ignorant or foolish. However, questions should be
                                looked upon as an opportunity for you to repeat and reinforce some
                                of your main points. Questions are usually asked because audience
                                members have misunderstood an issue and just want more clarity. As
                                someone asks a question, give them eye contact and then repeat the
                                question so that all the audience have heard it. Avoid the feeling
                                that it always has to be you who answers the question. Questions are
                                sometimes an opportunity to 'throw the issue open' to
                                the rest of the audience and to get a debate going. If you do not
                                understand the question, then politely say so and ask for it to be
                                repeated. If you do not know the answer, do not be tempted to invent
                                a response, or to waffle - admit that you do not know the
                                answer, then thank the person for their question.



Team Presentations
You may have to present as part of a group. This brings both new
                            challenges and opportunities. Figure
                                27.1 offers a summary of the processes involved.



Team Presentations



Get To Know Each Other
If you are all working under pressure (which may be because your
                                presentation is going to be assessed as part of an accredited
                                programme), you will need to get to know each other well so that
                                collaboration is maximized. You do not want disagreements,
                                jealousies or antagonisms to disrupt the work of the team. Try to
                                organize a social event for you all to attend. Go for a coffee or
                                have lunch together, so that group 'bonding' can
                                begin.


Appoint A Team Leader
Sometimes a group may decide not to appoint a leader, believing that
                                they can manage the presentation process entirely by mutual
                                agreement. This is naïve because it allows no one to take
                                responsibility for pulling the team together, sorting out problems
                                and project managing the processes. Team leaders need to have a
                                clear idea of the intended output and good interpersonal skills.
                                When appointing a leader, other team members should be aware that
                                they all still have responsibilities to the group and to the task in
                                hand. It is not the leader's job to do all the work!
Figure 27.1
                                    The team presentation preparation processSource: Adapted from Billingham,
                                    2003


Decide On And Allocate Roles
These roles might include presentation design, implementation (using
                                technology), and delivery. It is best to allocate these roles around
                                the team based upon members' natural strengths or enthusiasm.
                                It is the leader's role to ensure that once accepted, team
                                members complete their tasks on time and to the necessary
                                standard.


Prepare A Timetable
A timetable should be prepared, working backwards from the date for
                                the final presentation. This determines the amount of time the team
                                has for preparing the presentation. Built into the timetable should
                                be adequate time for practising delivering the presentation.


Share Out The Content
Share out the content based upon the known expertise of team members
                                or at least motivation to talk about the subject. Not all team
                                members may necessarily deliver, as some will have responsibility
                                for the presentation's design and production. In situations
                                where skills and knowledge are lacking, ensure that the person who
                                takes on the 'not wanted' subject is given support by
                                the team.



Plan The Presentation
Try to ensure that listeners are treated to plenty of variety. So,
                                follow a difficult section of subject matter (such as data and
                                figures), with a lighter, less formal one. Ensure a lively speaker
                                follows a slow, serious one. Structure the presentation so that its
                                content is easy to understand.


Rehearse, Rehearse, Rehearse
It is impossible to overstress the importance of practising the
                                presentation as much as possible. In team presentations you will
                                need to determine where everyone stands and the 'batting
                                order' for the speakers. It is important that when one team
                                member is speaking, other members give them the respect of full
                                attention. If team members do not do this, why should the audience?
                                When practising aim for:
A polished introduction.Smooth handovers.A slick and decisive summary/conclusion.

Employability Skill 27.4

Contributing Your Own Ideas Effectively In A
                                        Group
One of the keys to constructing and delivering an effective
                                        team presentation is having the skill of listening to others
                                        and then making your own contributions. Rehearse in your
                                        mind what you want to say or write some ideas down. Ask
                                        questions. Evaluate the ideas that have been presented by
                                        others. Provide a summary of what has already been said.
                                        Offer new ideas. Above all, be energetic and try to generate
                                        positive feelings within the team.



Communicating Effectively at
                                                Work





Case Study 27.1

What Happens When You Don'T Rehearse
                                        And When You Do
As part of an MSc module, the class was divided into four
                                        teams of five students, each team being required to give a
                                        20-minute presentation, providing a solution to a case study
                                        problem. The team that achieved the lowest marks contained
                                        two dominant individuals who spent most of the time arguing
                                        about the structure and content of the presentation.
Although all teams had four weeks in which to prepare the
                                        presentations, this team did not meet at all during the
                                        first two weeks, and the arguments had a disastrous impact
                                        on progress. In the end, they did most of their content
                                        preparation the night before the presentation day and had
                                        only one 'dry run' practice on the day itself.
                                        The lack of preparation showed. There was no fluency between
                                        elements of the presentation, handovers between speakers
                                        were hesitant and the body language of all presenters was
                                        defensive and lacking in confidence.
In contrast, the winning team elected a leader at the soonest
                                        opportunity. Team roles were allocated quickly and meetings
                                        booked well in advance. All team members exchanged mobile
                                        phone numbers so
                                        that they could keep in regular contact, and communicated
                                        frequently using MSN. When one team member was seen to be
                                        struggling with his part of the subject matter, others
                                        offered to help him. The team spent quite a lot of time
                                        discussing the structure of their presentation before they
                                        researched the content. They also started their first of
                                        four practice sessions a week before the 'big
                                        day' and were slick and confident on the day itself.
                                        They looked relaxed and confident (because they were!) and
                                        even seemed to enjoy delivering the presentation.



Activity 27.3

Reflecting On Presentations You Have Seen
Think back to one of the worst presentations you have seen.
                                        Make a list of all the factors that made you judge the
                                        presentation to be poor. Then recall a good presentation.
                                        Why was this better? What features of the good presentation
                                        are you able to repeat yourself?





Preparing For And Surviving Vivas
A viva is an oral examination, usually taken as part of a postgraduate
                            research degree. Vivas perform at least two important functions:
They test the candidate's knowledge of their thesis to
                                    ensure that it is their own work.They provide the candidate with the opportunity to defend their
                                    ideas and, if necessary, add further detail and
                                    explanation.
The viva normally takes place a number of weeks after the
                            candidate's thesis has been submitted, and, typically, is
                            attended by a person who chairs the meeting (to ensure that the academic
                            institution's regulations are followed), an internal examiner
                            from the candidate's institution and one or sometimes two
                            external examiners. Two external examiners may be needed if the thesis
                            covers a diverse range of themes or if one of the examiners is
                            relatively inexperienced (for example, they have not examined a thesis
                            before). Examiners must always be independent of the candidate and
                            qualified in the subject area dealt with by the thesis. Some
                            institutions also allow the candidate's supervisor to be present
                            but in an observational capacity only - they are not part of the
                            decision-making process. They might occasionally, however, be called
                            upon to add points of clarification but only if the examiner seeks
                            this.
The format for a viva meeting can vary widely. In some parts of
                            continental Europe, for example, the viva is an open event, at which
                            members of the public may not only attend, but also ask questions. The
                            role of the examiners is to judge whether the dissertation is worthy of
                            a pass. There are usually just six possible outcomes from the
                            examination; the following are typical of most universities:
That the degree be awarded.That the degree be awarded, subject to minor corrections.That the degree be not awarded, but that the student be
                                    permitted to submit a revised thesis, by a specified date, with
                                    or without further research, and be examined with or without a
                                    further viva voce examination.That the degree be not awarded and with no recommendation
                                    regarding re-submission of the thesis.That the degree of Doctor of Philosophy be not awarded but that
                                    the Degree of Master of Philosophy be awarded, if appropriate,
                                    after specified minor corrections have been made to the
                                    thesis.That the degree of Doctor of Philosophy be not awarded, but the
                                    student be permitted to submit a revised thesis, for the Degree
                                    of Master of Philosophy, by a specified date, with or without
                                    further research and be examined with or without a further viva
                                    voce examination.
Obviously, most candidates hope that they will gain a pass with no
                            amendments, but this happens on relatively few occasions. Probably the
                            best outcome to hope for is a pass with minor corrections. The
                            difference between 'major' and 'minor'
                            corrections is partly one of semantics, and will depend on the judgement
                            of the examiners as to which they choose. Minor corrections tend to
                            include: minor errors of fact, typography, grammar, style, syntax and
                            the layout of graphs and tables. Changes to the intellectual content or
                            reasoning of a thesis would normally be regarded as major corrections.
                            Whatever corrections are required, the candidate would normally be
                            informed about them verbally at the end of the viva and subsequently in
                            writing, as well as the date by which the corrections would have to be
                            made.

Transferring From Mphil To Phd
In most UK higher education institutions, students first of all enrol
                                on an MPhil programme and then, usually after two years' of
                                study and having reached an appropriate level, upgrade or transfer
                                onto a PhD. The MPhil stage involves the production of a
                                'transfer document' which has to be defended at a
                                transfer meeting. It is therefore a very useful preparation for the
                                viva itself. The report will, typically, contain an Introduction
                                setting out the background and reasons for undertaking the study,
                                one or more literature chapters and a methodology chapter,
                                identifying a set of research questions and a plan for how the study
                                is going to be conducted. The upgrade meeting is normally attended
                                by two internal examiners but not by anyone from outside the
                                university, but rules differ between higher education institutions.
                                The examiners will be looking for evidence that the focus of the
                                study is sound and that the literature search has identified a set
                                of questions worthy and capable of being researched. Finally, of
                                course, the Methodology chapter shows coherently how this is going
                                to be done.
The kinds of outcomes reflect those of the PhD itself. These
                                typically comprise:
Transfer to PhD is permitted.Transfer is not permitted, but the candidate is permitted to
                                        submit a revised upgrade document during a prescribed
                                        timescale.Transfer is not permitted and the Degree of Master of
                                        Philosophy be awarded, if appropriate, after specified minor
                                        corrections have been made to the thesis.Transfer is not permitted and no award is to be made.
The kinds of weaknesses that examiners often identify at this stage
                                include an expectation that merely describing the literature will be
                                sufficient. For both the upgrade document as well as the final
                                thesis, the study needs to present a set of arguments that are then
                                supported by the relevant literature.


Top Tip 27.4
Too often candidates present a long 'laundry list'
                                    of sources, expecting this will be enough to carry an argument.
                                    In this they are mistaken. Make sure that a clear set of
                                    research questions emerge. Once these questions are specified,
                                    the Methodology chapter needs to present a research design,
                                    capable of researching them. Reading the research literature on
                                    research design is therefore essential.



Preparing For The Viva

Selecting An Examiner
Probably several months before the viva (and even before you have
                                    actually completed your thesis) you should discuss the choice of
                                    examiners with your supervisor. It almost goes without saying
                                    that selecting an appropriate examiner is a key step in
                                    achieving success in the upcoming viva. Most examiners will want
                                    to be as professional, fair and objective as possible. But if
                                    you choose an examiner, for example, whom you know is from a
                                    theoretical position or research tradition unsympathetic or even
                                    hostile to your own, you may be asking for trouble. To use a
                                    stark example, if your thesis is based upon a constructivist
                                    philosophical position and a methodology that has used an
                                    ethnographic research design, but your examiner is from a
                                    'hard science', objectivist, quantitative
                                    position, you may have some problems! Such an examiner may be
                                    both philosophically antipathetic to your approach, but also may
                                    simply have difficulty actually understanding your research
                                    design. This is partly because most academics become quite
                                    specialized and comfortable with a limited range of research
                                    approaches. So, choosing an examiner from a similar research
                                    tradition to yourself does not guarantee success - but it
                                    helps! Table 27.5 provides a brief
                                    summary of selection criteria.



Viva Presentation Guidelines






Activity 27.4
Search for and read some of the academic articles written by
                                        one or more potential external examiners. Try to identify
                                        the kind of research tradition they belong to. Do their
                                        research studies favour a didactic, quantitative and
                                        experimental approach, or does their research tend to adopt
                                        an inductive, qualitative and interpretivist approach?
                                        Discuss the outcome of your investigation with your
                                        supervisor.




Becoming The 'Master' Of Your Own
                                    Work
In the days or weeks leading up to the viva, ensure that you
                                    re-read your work so that you are as familiar with it as
                                    possible. This does not mean committing anything to memory. If
                                    an examiner wishes you to respond to an issue in a particular
                                    passage they will give you the page number and allow you some
                                    time to refresh your memory of the themes it contains. Clearly,
                                    however, it helps to be familiar and conversant with all your
                                    major themes and arguments.
Above all, ensure that you have identified any weaknesses
                                    - in a body of work up to 100,000 words long, there are
                                    bound to be some! Common limitations include:
Key omissions in the literature chapters including
                                            omitting significant theories or sources.A failure to present a set of coherent and well
                                            formulated research questions.The lack of a coherent research design that is
                                            appropriate to the questions being asked.Problems in sample selection, including a reliance on
                                            convenience or volunteer samples, and a failure to
                                            acknowledge the limitations of these.Failure to acknowledge alternative interpretations of
                                            the data.Making exaggerated claims on the basis of limited
                                            data.
Like any skill, practice makes perfect. A sensible approach,
                                    then, is to use a 'mock' viva where either your
                                    supervisor, or another academic who is kind enough to help you,
                                    drafts a set of questions, poses them to you, and then provides
                                    you with feedback on your performance. Be warned, however, that
                                    it is unlikely that many, if any, of these questions will come
                                    up in the viva itself because, as Potter (2006) puts it, there
                                    is no such thing as a standard viva. The mock viva, though, will
                                    provide you with the opportunity to experience the pressure of
                                    thinking up answers when under pressure.


Publishing And Referencing Your Own
                                    Article(S)
It is not unusual, particularly for students working at doctoral
                                    level, to submit one or more articles to a peer reviewed
                                    academic journal. There are a number of good reasons for doing
                                    this. Firstly, the act of writing an academic article demands
                                    skills such as synthesis, evaluation and analysis, all of which
                                    are also needed for writing good theses and dissertations.
                                    Indeed, producing a piece of work of, say, only 6,000 words in
                                    length can be harder than one of 60,000 precisely because the
                                    arguments need to be tight and focused. So, writing your own
                                    article is good practice for general academic writing. Secondly,
                                    if the article is published or only 'in print',
                                    that is, it has been accepted by a journal and will be published
                                    soon, you can make reference to it in your thesis, summarizing
                                    your main arguments and, of course, citing your own name and
                                    date of publication. Having a reference to your own published
                                    work in your dissertation can only impress an examiner, showing
                                    that you are capable of writing to a high academic standard.


Referencing The Examiner
It might be thought rather ingratiating to make reference to one
                                    or more of the published works of the examiner but there are
                                    several good reasons for doing this, if at all possible.
                                    Firstly, if you do not think that making such a reference would
                                    be relevant to the arguments you are making, you have to ask
                                    yourself whether you have chosen the right examiner. Making
                                    reference, of course, will go some way towards massaging the ego
                                    of the examiner and so help him or her to see your work in a
                                    more positive light! However, you should not assume that any
                                    reference should be made without any hint of criticism.
                                    Examiners should
                                    expect (and many would wish) to have their theories evaluated
                                    critically, provided the criticism can be substantiated and
                                    justified. Many examiners like nothing more than an academic
                                    debate, and providing one, based upon evidence and a sustained
                                    argument, could give you an opportunity to show off your
                                    critical knowledge of the field. Of course, there is always the
                                    danger of going too far. Few examiners would appreciate having a
                                    convincing and complete refutation of their life's
                                    work!



During The Viva
On the day of the viva, a number of processes will take place.
                                Firstly, the external examiners will meet, probably for about an
                                hour. While they may have had some provisional discussions about
                                your work before the viva by telephone or email, it is possible that
                                their discussion on the day of the viva is the first opportunity
                                they have had to debate the quality of your work. You can rest
                                assured, however, that in the vast majority of cases, examiners will
                                have taken their responsibilities very seriously and read your
                                dissertation with great care and thoroughness. All members of the
                                viva panel, including your supervisor and the chairperson of the
                                meeting will get together to agree the final format for the meeting,
                                including its timing. Some examiners will give you the result of
                                their deliberations right at the start of the viva, for example:
                                'Congratulations, we can tell you that you have passed but
                                with some minor corrections. It is these that we would like to
                                discuss with you.' But in most cases, the result will come
                                right at the end.
There is no way of telling how long the viva will last. At a very
                                minimum this could be as short as an hour (probably for those theses
                                that are either excellent or very poor), to as much as 6 or 7 hours.
                                Most, however, will take from 2 to 3 hours to complete. A list of
                                the kinds of questions often posed by examiners is presented in Table 27.6.
After your defence of your work is over (that is, the examiners have
                                exhausted their stock of questions, or they are satisfied that they
                                have covered the key areas they want answers to), your involvement
                                in the viva comes to an end. You and your supervisor are asked to
                                leave the room, so that the examiners can deliberate and come to a
                                judgement on your work. This is, naturally, a nerve-wracking time
                                for the candidate (and the supervisor!), not unlike waiting outside
                                the delivery ward of a maternity hospital. The examiners can take as
                                long as they like to come to a decision. Once this is reached, you
                                and your supervisor will be called back into the room and told the
                                outcome. Hopefully, it will be a positive one.


Source: Adapted from Rugg, G.
                                    and Petre, M. (2004) The Unwritten Rules of PhD Research.
                                    Reproduced with the kind permission of Open University Press.
                                    All rights reserved.



Employability Skill 27.5

Handling Objections To Your Arguments
The likelihood of success will be increased by the way in
                                        which you conduct yourself and the quality of your arguments
                                        during the viva. You are not required to agree with
                                        everything the examiner says. Indeed, the examiner will be
                                        looking for a high level of original thinking and the
                                        ability to take and defend a position, even if the position
                                        is opposed to their own.



Handling Objections in Sales


What are the 'killer features' that examiners
                                        are looking for in a successful thesis? Of course, there
                                        could be many, but some of the most common are:
Has the candidate picked up the key debates in the
                                                subject area? Are there any vital sources or debates
                                                that have been missed?Has the candidate identified the main gaps in the
                                                current literature on the research subject? Have
                                                these been clearly articulated?From these gaps, have a set of research questions
                                                been posed? Are they clearly formulated?Does the thesis contain helpful signposting to the
                                                reader? Is it easy to find one's way about
                                                the thesis? Is it always clear what the candidate is
                                                trying to achieve in each chapter and section?In presenting findings and discussion, does the
                                                candidate return to the original questions to answer
                                                them?




After The VIVA
If you have passed the viva and been told you are to be awarded your
                                doctorate or similar qualification, then congratulations. If,
                                however, you have some amendments to do, you will be given a time
                                period in which to complete them. First of all, ensure that you
                                actually understand what the recommendations are asking for. If this
                                is not the case, contact your supervisor who will then communicate
                                with the examiners to shed light on the issue.
You may be tempted to rush off and make these changes as quickly as
                                possible to 'get them over with'. It is suggested,
                                however, that you make maximum use of the allowed time to make the
                                changes. In doing this, construct a schedule or plan for completing
                                the amendments.

Top Tip 27.5
To help the examiner, you could construct a two-column table,
                                    with the required changes itemized in the left-hand column and a
                                    description (with page numbers) of what you have changed or
                                    added in the right-hand column. This helps the examiner to
                                    identify your amendments quickly and efficiently once you have
                                    re-submitted.



Case Study 27.2

Surviving The Viva
Marion has spent five years on her research and is now about
                                        to face the examiner in her viva. She is obviously nervous,
                                        but has prepared herself as thoroughly as she could. Not
                                        only has she re-read her thesis several times, she has been
                                        through a mock viva with her supervisor, with some of her
                                        fellow PhD students in attendance. She also presented a
                                        short seminar paper at the doctoral students' monthly
                                        meeting. The examiner, whom she has never met, is a
                                        'big name' in her field of study, and was
                                        recommended by her supervisor.
At the start, everything goes well. Marion finds herself
                                        understanding the questions and responding fluently. But
                                        suddenly the examiner stuns her with the comment: 'I
                                        just don't accept the central argument of your
                                        thesis.' He then goes on to elaborate on what he
                                        considers this central argument to be, and why it is fatally
                                        flawed. Marion feels five years' work ebbing away and
                                        her research life about to crumble in ruins. Fortunately,
                                        she does not respond immediately, but takes a sip of water,
                                        allowing her to collect her thoughts. She recalls the words
                                        of her supervisor: 'Whatever happens, don't
                                        get defensive. Be positive about your work.' Marion
                                        asks the examiner for further clarification of the point he
                                        is making. Drawing a deep breath, Marion then unfolds a calm
                                        and careful defence of her main ideas. The examiner begins
                                        to nod and smile. When Marion finishes her defence, the
                                        examiner thanks her and moves on to his next question.
Marion passes her viva. The experience teaches her that there
                                        are some examiners who like to 'rough' the
                                        candidate up a little, and to provoke a debate. They want to
                                        probe just how much the candidate knows and how far they are
                                        prepared to defend their position.



Activity 27.5
Talk to people you know who have been through the viva
                                    experience. Ask them how they prepared themselves for the viva,
                                    what surprised them and how they coped with any
                                    difficulties.




Innovative Assessment Methods
So far, in this chapter, we have discussed traditional approaches to
                            assessment such as dissertations and doctoral theses. These, however,
                            tend to be large-scale and summative (completed towards the end of a
                            programme). Increasingly, academic programmes are using smaller-scale,
                            flexible and more innovative assessment techniques such as critical
                            reviews of the literature, self and peer-assessment, and research
                            projects undertaken during a work placement, which might include oral
                            presentations, research proposals and a final reflective report.
                            Research proposals were discussed in Chapter 3
                            while writing business reports was discussed in the previous
                                chapter. Here, we will explore three additional assessment
                            approaches: writing a critical literature review, the uses of peer and
                            self-assessment, and work placement reports.

Critical Article Review
You may be asked to undertake a critical review of an academic
                                article, or comparing and contrasting two articles, one of which is
                                considered to be of a higher quality than the other. The key here is the word
                                'critical'. A review is not simply a description or
                                summary of the article. A critical approach requires demonstrating a
                                sense of judgement, showing the strengths of the article but also
                                highlighting weaknesses, omissions and inconsistencies in arguments
                                and any flaws in research design. The kind of questions that a
                                critical review might address partly depends on whether the article
                                is purely conceptual (dealing with theories and concepts) or
                                empirical (also dealing with theories and concepts but also
                                involving the collection of data). Table
                                    27.7 offers some questions for both.



Note that a critical
                                article review is not the same as a critical literature review
                                (discussed in Chapter 5). As we have just
                                seen, an article review focuses on one or a small number of
                                articles, whereas a critical literature review evaluates a
                                comprehensive array of articles around a theme.


Peer And Self-Assessment
Self-assessment requires a student to reflect on their own work
                                (which may be individual or as part of a team), while peer
                                assessment requires an assessment of the work of others (usually in
                                a group or team). Self-assessment is a process of formative
                                assessment (typically during rather than at the end of a programme
                                of study) during which students reflect on and evaluate the quality
                                of their work and their learning, identifying both strengths and
                                weaknesses (Andrade and Du, 2007). Self-assessment usually occurs
                                with reference to a predetermined set of assessment criteria that
                                students themselves should have a role in constructing (Boud, 1995).
                                Reflection is the key to self-assessment, as part of which you might
                                ask yourself questions such as:
What have I learned?What did I find easy about learning to ...?How would I do differently next time?What did I find difficult when learning to ...?What helped me when something got difficult ...?
Peer assessment requires students to provide feedback or grade (or
                                both) to their peers based on criteria for excellence that have been
                                agreed in advance. In providing this feedback to others it is
                                important to be both informative but also constructive. This means
                                that it is necessary to:
Respect the work of others in the group.Identify the successful elements of others'
                                        work.Take the learning objectives of the activity and the
                                        assessment criteria when suggesting improvements.Word suggestions positively.
Peer assessment processes can help students to both receive and give
                                feedback, an important feature of employability.
The Employability Skill that follows shows you the kinds of
                                self-assessment criteria that might be used when you are giving a
                                presentation as part of a team.

Employability Skill 27.6
Table 27.8 outlines a
                                    typical set of criteria for assessing a team presentation, where
                                    marks can be allocated (4 for Strongly Agree to 1 for Strongly
                                    Disagree), along with qualitative comments.



Source: Adapted from
                                        University of Exeter, 2016




Research During A Work Placement
Today, many programmes of study include a work placement (paid or
                                unpaid) lasting several weeks, months or in some cases an entire
                                year, where learning outcomes are an intended part of the programme.
                                Work placements are designed to give you experience of the world of
                                work, and an opportunity to apply what you have learned in your
                                academic programme into practice. Through a placement you will
                                develop relevant skills and knowledge and experience the challenges
                                of working in a real work environment. Placement learning is
                                normally assessed through the demonstration of reflective practice
                                and specified learning outcomes. Assessment methods include (but are
                                not confined to) some of the approaches presented next.


Poster Or Powerpoint Presentation
We have discussed presentations using PowerPoint slides as a visual
                                aid already in this chapter so we will confine the discussion here
                                to posters. For a poster presentation you should check on what size
                                poster you are expected to produce and whether there are
                                stipulations as to whether it should be in landscape or portrait
                                format. For posters that you intend to use only once the best
                                approach is to stick and paste typographically produced content,
                                that is, material produced in Word or PowerPoint, onto a large
                                backing sheet. For posters that will be used more than once, you may
                                want to get it printed and laminated by a print shop. Whether
                                'stick and paste' or laminated, posters need to be set
                                out as a series of boxes and there should be plenty of white space
                                so content is not too crowded. The structure, typically, comprises a
                                Title, Introduction, Background, Subject-matter content, and
                                Conclusion (see Figure 27.2). Make use of
                                bullet points and, above all, graphics to add clarity and
                                interest.



Presentation Checklist


Figure 27.2
                                    Example of a conference poster


Final Reflective Report
Before discussing the structure of final placement reports a word of
                                caution. Organizations are sites of tensions and conflict caused by
                                factors including communication failures, personality conflicts,
                                value differences between individuals, competition over resources
                                and non-compliance with rules. You should be aware that such
                                conflicts and tension (often referred to as 'organizational
                                politics') may impact on your work, including your final
                                report. You might want to include a discussion of this in the report
                                itself. To assist the report writing process, academic institutions
                                usually provide a template or structure for guidance. Figure 27.3 provides a typical
                                illustration.
As you can see from Figure 27.3, reflective reports
                                for work placements typically require you to discover information
                                about the organization itself, including its history, activities and
                                structure. Some of this information can be gleaned from the
                                organization's website and company report. Then you describe
                                where you work and how your section or department fits into the
                                larger organization. There may be an evaluative element to this,
                                making a judgement about its effectiveness (and the impact of
                                organizational politics - see above), so you may choose to
                                discuss this, in the first instance, with your work placement line
                                manager. The reflective report may also include a section where you
                                describe and evaluate what you have done, how effective you have
                                been, and above all, a reflection on what you have learned. This
                                will include not only skills and knowledge but what you have learned
                                about yourself.
Figure 27.3
                                    Template for Final Reflective ReportSource: Work Placement Student
                                    Guide, University of Greenwich


Training Report
A training report is used to check on progress on a work placement
                                (often monthly). Hence, a template may be used for you to report
                                on:
Work experience: setting out the main duties you have
                                        performed, critically appraising your performance on these
                                        duties.Key skills development: outlining the key skills you have
                                        acquired as a result of the duties being undertaken, e.g.,
                                        communication skills, time management, working with others,
                                        etc.Critical incidents: an outline of events that have produced
                                        an emotional response in you (either positive or negative)
                                        or impacted on your work.Employer feedback: details of formal or informal employer
                                        feedback on your attitude and/or performance.Contact with placement tutor: details of discussions with
                                        your placement tutor whether by email, telephone or
                                        face-to-face.Final year project: provide details of information you may
                                        have gathered for your final year Project.Other information: provide details of information that you
                                        think might be relevant to your work placement such as
                                        training courses attended, cultural activities (especially
                                        if the placement is overseas).




Summary
If preparing a presentation that will be assessed, keep checking
                                    on the assessment criteria and follow them.Structure your presentation so that it has a clear beginning,
                                    middle and end, and keep to a limited number of key
                                    messages.Avoid 'death by bullet point'. Try to maximize the
                                    use of pictures, graphics and other visual images, including the
                                    use of visual metaphors.In delivering the presentation consider yourself as your best
                                    visual aid. Stand confidently and face your audience, making eye
                                    contact. Speak clearly with variety in your tone and
                                    intonation.For team presentations, elect a leader and allocate roles based
                                    upon experience and commitment.In passing a viva, it helps if the external examiner understands
                                    and is not hostile to the research tradition that informs your
                                    research methodology.If possible, get at least one of your own articles published in
                                    the peer reviewed literature.Practise by undertaking a mock viva with your supervisor. Know
                                    your work thoroughly, including its main weaknesses. Prepare to
                                    engage in a critical dialogue with the examiner. Remember, you
                                    know your research better than anyone in the room!Assessment methods in business research now include additional
                                    assessment approaches such as: writing a critical literature
                                    review, the uses of peer and self-assessment and work placement
                                    reports.

Review Questions
Think of an effective presentation that you have attended
                                        which included the use of a personal story. What was it that
                                        made the story memorable or evocative for you? How can you
                                        make use of similar stories in your own presentations?Imagine a world without PowerPoint. How would you now
                                        present?For a viva, suggest at least three strategies you could use
                                        for minimizing the chances of being posed a question that
                                        you do not know the answer to.How valid are peer and self-assessment as approaches to
                                        individual or team assessment?



Further Reading
McCarthy, P. and Hatcher, C. (2002) Presentation Skills: The Essential
                                Guide for Students. London: Sage. Practical and constructive
                            advice for students that includes, but goes well beyond, how to use
                            technology in making presentations.
Potter, S. (ed.) (2006) Doing Postgraduate Research. London: Sage.
                            See Chapter 11: 'The Examination
                            Process and the Viva'. Provides a host of practical advice on
                            preparing for and conducting yourself during the viva.
Weissman, J. (2011)
                                Presentations in Action: 80 Memorable Presentation Lessons from
                                the Masters. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Pearson Education Inc.
                            Presentation coach Jerry Weissman draws on over 20 years of helping top
                            executives give better presentations. Includes telling more effective
                            stories, using the 'elevator' pitch to get over a key idea
                            and handling tough questions.


Journal Resources
Omerovic, S., Tomazic, S., Milutinovic, M. and Milutinovic, V. (2010)
                            'Methodology for written and oral presentation of research
                            results', Journal of Professional Issues in Engineering
                                Education & Practice, 136(2): 112-117. Highlights
                            an effective method for the organization of research results into
                            written and oral forms.
Pearce, G. and Lee, G. (2009) 'Viva voce (oral examination) as an
                            assessment method: Insights from marketing students', Journal
                                of Marketing Education, 31(2): 120-130. Traces the
                            origins of vivas and reports on a study into their effectiveness. The
                            vivas enabled dialectic communication between the examiner and student
                            and provided invaluable experience for career interviews. Although some
                            students were anxious prior to the viva examination, on reflection they
                            conceded that the process was user friendly.
Wellington, J. (2010) 'Supporting students' preparation for
                            the viva: Their pre-conceptions and implications for practice',
                                Teaching in Higher Education, 15(1): 71-84. Pre-viva
                            students express their positive and negative thoughts about the viva
                            process.

Don't forget to visit the companion website at https://study.sagepub.com/grayresearchbusiness for the
                                following resources which support this chapter:
















Glossary


Accretion measure

A type of unobtrusive measure that arises from the deposit of material (e.g.
                        graffiti or litter) that can be analysed as having a significance.



Action research

Research that involves close collaboration between researchers and
                        practitioners, and which usually aims to achieve measurable, practical
                        benefits for the company, organization or community.



Analysis of variance (ANOVA)

A statistical test used to determine whether there are differences between
                        two or amongst three or more groups on one or more variables. ANOVA is
                        determined using the F-test.



Analytical survey

A survey design that uses a quasi-experimental approach that attempts to
                        measure the impact of independent variables on dependent variables, while
                        controlling for extraneous variables.



Anonymity

An assurance that data will not be traceable to participants in a research
                        project.



A priori

A term indicating an idea is derived from theory rather than practice.



Areas of acceptance or rejection

For a one-tailed hypothesis test, the area of rejection is either the upper
                        or lower tail of the distribution. For a two-tailed test both tails are
                        used.



Association

The tendency of two events to occur together. When applied to variables it
                        is more usual to refer to this as a correlation.



Audit trail

The presentation of material gathered within a naturalistic enquiry that
                        allows other researchers to trace the original researcher's analysis
                        and conclusions.



Axial coding

A type of coding that treats a category as an axis around which the
                        researcher delineates relationships and specifies the dimensions of the
                        category.



Bias

In general, any influence that distorts the results of a study. In
                        statistics, a case of systematic error in a statistical result.



Case study

A research design focusing on one person or sample. Case studies provide
                        limited information on a single issue, person or organization. There are
                        dangers in generalizing from such limited samples, but results may be
                        indicative of trends.



Categorical data

Data that include both nominal and ordinal data.



Cell

Area containing values in a table of data.



Census

The measurement of a complete population rather than a sample -
                        particularly useful when researching organizations.



Chi-square distribution

Statistical test used with nominal data to determine if patterns or
                        characteristics are common across populations.



Chi-square test

How well observed data fit an expected or theoretical distribution.



Closed question

A question where the possible answers are predetermined.



Cluster sampling

A sampling strategy involving successive sampling of units or clusters,
                        progressing from larger units to smaller ones.



Coding

The process of transforming raw data into a standardized format for data
                        analysis. In quantitative research this means attaching numerical values to
                        categories; in qualitative research it means identifying recurrent words,
                        concepts or themes.



Coding frame

A template of key coding instructions for each variable in a study (e.g.
                        Agree = 1).



Confidence interval

This identifies a range of values that includes the true population value of
                        a particular characteristic at a specified probability level (usually 95 per
                        cent).



Confounding variable

A variable, other than the variable(s) under investigation, which may
                        distort the results of experimental research, and so has to be controlled
                        for.



Constant comparison method

A method of qualitative analysis that generates successively more abstract
                        concepts and theories through the inductive process of comparing data with
                        data, data with categories, categories with categories and categories with
                        concepts.



Construct

The particular way in which an individual expresses meaning about a
                        concept.



Constructivism

A perspective that assumes that people construct the realities in which they
                        participate.



Construct validity

The extent to which an instrument measures a theoretical concept (construct)
                        under investigation.



Content analysis

The examination of qualitative data by either qualitative or quantitative
                        methods by systematically identifying special characteristics (classes or
                        categories).



Content validity

An estimate of the extent to which a research tool takes items from the
                        subject domain being addressed, including not only cognitive topics but also
                        behaviours.



Contingency table

A display of frequencies for two or more variables.



Control group

As part of an experimental design, a group not given the intervention
                        so that the effects of the intervention on the experimental group can be
                        compared with it.



Convenience sampling

A non-probability sampling strategy that uses the most conveniently
                        accessible people to participate in the study.



Conversational analysis

The formal analysis of everyday conversations, often based upon transcribed
                        tape recordings.



Core category

The central category that is used in grounded theory to integrate all the
                        categories identified.



Correlation

The extent of an association between and among interdependent variables such
                        that when one variable changes, so does the other. Variables that are
                        independent are not correlated.



Correlation coefficient (r)

A measure of the linear relationship between two numerical values made on
                        the same set of variables. It ranges from −1 (a perfectly negative
                        relationship) to +1 (a perfectly positive relationship), with 0
                        meaning no relationship. Linear relationships can be measured by
                        Pearson's product moment correlation; changes in one variable causing
                        changes in another in a fixed direction can be measured by Kendall's
                        coefficient of rank correlation or Spearman's rank correlation
                            coefficient.



Covert participant

Someone who participates in the activities of a research study without
                        revealing his or her identity as a researcher.



Credibility

Seen by some supporters of qualitative approaches as more important than
                        validity or reliability. Established through building confidence in the
                        accuracy of data gathering and interpretation.



Criterion validity

Assessed through comparing the scores on an instrument with one or more
                        external criteria such as a well-established existing test.



Critical inquiry

A process which questions currently held values and challenges conventional
                        social structures.



Cross-sectional study

A study in which data are collected at one time only, usually for a large
                        number of cases.



Data

Findings and results which, if meaningful, become information.



Data saturation

The point at which data collection can cease, because data have become
                        repetitive with the emergence of no new themes or ideas.



Deduction

Drawing logical conclusions through the process of reasoning, working from
                        the general to the specific.



Deductive approach

Experimental approach that uses a priori questions or hypotheses that the
                        research will test.



Degrees of freedom (df)

The number of components in results that are free to vary. Measured by the
                        number of categories minus 1.



Dependent variable

A variable that forms the focus of research, and depends on another (the
                        independent or explanatory) variable.



Descriptive statistics

Statistical methods used to describe data collected from a specific sample
                        (e.g. mean, mode, median, range, standard deviation).



Design

An approach to the collection of data that combines a validity of results
                        with an economy of effort. Includes decisions on the case site, sample, data
                        collection and analysis.



Deviation

The difference between the value of a variable and the mean of its
                        distribution.



Discourse analysis

The study of how both spoken and written language is used in social
                        contexts.



Emic

Specific language or cultural distinctions, meaningful to a cultural group
                        (as opposed to etic, ideas meaningful to researchers). An insider's
                        view of reality.



Empirical

Research methods in which data are collected.



Empirical data

The results of experiments or observations used to check the validity of
                        assertions.



Episodic records

Archival records that are insufficiently complete to allow for the
                        identification of trends.



Epistemology

A branch of philosophy that considers the criteria for determining what
                        constitutes and what does not constitute valid knowledge.



Ethics

The study of standards of conduct and values, and in research, how these
                        impact on both the researcher and research subjects.



Ethnography

A qualitative approach that seeks out the perspectives about the culture of
                        individuals, groups or systems occurring in settings or
                        'fields'. Originally associated with anthropology and
                        sociology.



Ethnomethodology

A research tradition that argues that people continually redefine themselves
                        through their interactions with others.



Etic

Ideas meaningful to researchers (as opposed to emic, language and cultural
                        distinctions meaningful to a cultural group). An outsider's view of
                        reality.



Evaluation

The systematic collection of data about the characteristics of a programme,
                        product, policy or service. Often performed to identify opportunities for
                        change and improvement.



Expected frequencies

Frequencies that are observed in a contingency table if the null hypothesis
                        is true.



Experimental group

In experimental research, the group of subjects who receive the experimental
                        treatment, in contrast to the control group who do not.



Experimental research

A research methodology based upon cause-and-effect relationships between
                        independent and dependent variables by means of the manipulation of
                        independent variables, control and randomization.



External validity

The extent to which research results can be generalized to the population as
                        a whole.



Extraneous variable

A variable that needs to be controlled for because it has the potential to
                        adversely affect the results of a study.



Face validity

The extent to which a measuring instrument appears to be measuring what it
                        claims to measure.



Field notes

Notes written when conducting interviews or observations in the field. They
                        may include the researcher's personal comments or
                        interpretations.



Fieldwork

The gathering of data at a research site.



Filter question

A question designed to exclude some respondents or direct them to later
                        questions in a questionnaire.



Fisher's exact test

Used to test the null hypothesis that nominal characteristics are not
                        associated. Usually used when the sample size is too small for the
                        chi-square test.



Focus group

A group interview, usually framed around one issue.



Frequency count

Calculation of frequencies to determine how many items fit into a category
                        (e.g. number of sales per product, members of a team, men and women in the
                        workforce).



Gatekeepers

Individuals who have the power or influence to grant or refuse access to a
                        field or research setting.



Generalizability

The extent to which the results of a study based upon evidence drawn from a
                        sample can be applied to a population as a whole. Often referred to as
                        external validity.



Goodness-of-fit

How well a given set of data fit a distribution. It may be measured by the
                        chi-square statistic.



Grounded theory

An inductive approach to the analysis of qualitative data involving open,
                        axial and selective coding.



Hermeneutics

An approach based on the interpretation of literary texts and human
                        behaviour.



Heuristic inquiry

A process of open-ended inquiry that begins with a question that is usually
                        focused on an issue that has posed a personal problem for the
                        researcher.



Hypothesis

A statement that should be capable of measurement about the relation between
                        two or more variables. Testing hypotheses, and especially the null
                        hypothesis, is part of inferential statistics.



Ideographic

An approach that emphasizes that explanation of human behaviour is only
                        possible through gaining access to participants' subjective
                        interpretations or culture.



Independent variable

Used to explain or predict a result or outcome on the dependent
                        variable.



Induction

The development of theory or inferences from observed or empirical reality.
                        It is associated with naturalism and the 'grounded theory'
                        approach to theory formation. It is the opposite of deduction.



Inductive approach

The establishment of facts on which theories or concepts are later built,
                        moving from specifics to generalizations.



Inference

An assertion made on the basis of something else observed.



Inferential statistics

Used to draw inferences from a sample being studied to a larger population
                        that the sample is drawn from.



Informed consent

The obtaining of voluntary participation in a research project based on a
                        full understanding of the likely benefits and risks.



Instrument

A tool such as a questionnaire, survey or observation schedule used to
                        gather data as part of a research project.



Inter-judge reliability

The extent to which two or more observers agree on what they have seen.



Internal validity

The extent to which changes in the dependent variable can be attributed to
                        the independent variable, rather than to an extraneous variable.



Interpretivism

Interpretations of the world are culturally derived and historically
                        situated. Interpretivist approaches include symbolic interactionism,
                        phenomenology, hermeneutics and naturalistic inquiry.



Interval scale

A quantifiable, continuous scale that has an arbitrary zero point (for
                        example, the Fahrenheit and Celsius temperature scales). Unlike ratio scales
                        (where a score of 120 represents a figure twice as large as a score of 60),
                        an IQ score of 120 (interval data) is not twice as large as one of 60.



Intervening variable

A hypothetical internal state that is used to explain relationships between
                        observed variables.



Leading question

A question that suggests a possible answer, and hence promotes bias.



Likert scale

A scale in which items represent different sub-concepts of the measured
                        object and responses are presented to indicate different degrees of
                        agreement or disagreement with the item.



Linearity

An assumption that the relationship between variables is linear.



Literature review

The selection of documents (published and unpublished) on a topic, that
                        contain information, ideas and evidence, and the evaluation of these
                        documents in relation to a particular piece of research.



Longitudinal study

A research study that examines phenomena over a relatively long period of
                        time.



Manipulation

Intentionally changing the value of an independent variable.



Mann-Whitney U test

See Wilcoxon signed-rank test.



Maturation

A threat to internal validity caused by change in the value of the dependent
                        variable that occurs without any intervention by the researcher.



Mean

The arithmetic average of observations. A measure of central tendency for
                        interval or ratio data.



Measure of central tendency

Used in descriptive statistics, comprising measures of the mean, median and
                        mode.



Measures of dispersion

Descriptive statistics that describe the spread of numerical data. They
                        include measures of the range, standard deviation and percentiles.



Median

A measure of central tendency where 50 per cent of observations are above it
                        and 50 per cent below.



Method

The systematic approach towards the collection of data so that information
                        can be obtained.



Methodology

The analysis of, and the broad philosophical and theoretical justification
                        for, a particular method used in research, for example, action
                        research.



Mode

A measure of central tendency comprising the value of the observation that
                        occurs most frequently.



Mortality

A threat to the validity of the research caused by subjects prematurely
                        withdrawing from the study.



Narratives

The use of oral or life histories to capture personal lived
                        experiences.



Naturalistic paradigm

A paradigm that assumes that there are multiple interpretations of reality
                        and that the goal of researchers is to work with people to understand how
                        they construct their own reality within a social context.



Nominal scale

Describes characteristics that have no numerical value (e.g. the name of
                        organizations, products, departments, etc.). Sometimes referred to as a
                        categorical scale.



Nomothetic

Approaches that seek to construct a deductively tested set of general
                        theories that explain and predict human behaviour. It is the opposite of
                        ideographic.



Non-parametric tests

Tests that do not make any assumption that the population is normally
                        distributed (sometimes called distribution-free tests). These include all
                        tests involving the ranking of data, including Kendall's rank
                        correlation and Spearman's rho.



Non-probability sampling

Techniques used to draw a sample in such a way that the findings will
                        require judgement and interpretation before being applied to a population.
                        Often necessary in practice.



Normal distribution

Based on the assumption that the distribution of a population will be a
                        smooth, bell-shaped curve that is symmetric around the mean and where the
                        mean, median and mode are equal. Symbolized by the Greek letter mu
                        (μ).



Null hypothesis (H
0
)

A statement of the relationship between two variables which argues that no
                        difference exists in the means, scores or other numerical values obtained
                        for the two groups. These differences are statistically significant when the
                        null hypothesis is rejected - suggesting that a difference does, in
                        fact, exist.



Observed frequencies

Frequency scores actually obtained through research - in contrast to
                        expected frequencies (see above).



One-sample t-test

See paired t-test.



One-tailed test

The area of a normal distribution curve showing the region of rejection for
                        the null hypothesis where the direction predicted by the hypothesis is
                        known.



One-way ANOVA (analysis of variance)

Used to test for differences for studies with one dependent variable with
                        ratio or interval data. This test uses the F-statistic.



Ontology

The study of the essence of phenomena and the nature of their
                        existence.



Open question

A question without fixed categories of answers.



Operational definition

A concise statement that assigns meaning to a construct or variable by
                        specifying the activities necessary to measure it.



Ordinal scale

An ordering or ranking of values with no implication that the differences
                        between the values are equal. Examples include: Strongly agree, Agree,
                        Disagree and Strongly disagree; Frequently, Often, Sometimes, Never.



Outliers

An observation that is numerically distant from the rest of the data.



Paired sample

Two samples in which each member is paired with a member in the other sample
                        (e.g. comparing the output of two groups of assembly-line workers). The
                        paired t-test is used to measure whether any differences on the
                        random variable (e.g. output) are significant.



Paired t-test or a one-sample t-test

Compares the difference or change in ratio or interval variables that is
                        observed for two paired or matched groups. It can also be used for before
                        and after measures on the same group.



Paradigm

A perspective or world view based upon sets of values and philosophical
                        assumptions, from which distinctive conceptualizations and explanations of
                        phenomena are proposed.



Parameter

The population value of a distribution such as the mean.



Parametric test

Tests that assume that the data for a population are normally distributed.
                        Examples include t-tests and the F-test. To be used for
                        interval and ratio numerical data, but not ordinal data.



Participant observation

Qualitative research, when a researcher both collects data and becomes
                        involved in the site of the study.



Participatory action research

A research tradition in which people themselves act as participants to
                        investigate their own reality.



Pearson product-moment

A statistical formula for calculating the correlation coefficient between
                        two variables. Assumes that both variables are interval and that the
                        relationship between them is linear.



Percentile

A number that indicates the percentage of a distribution that is above or
                        below that number. A statement that a person scored on the 75th percentile
                        indicates that 75 per cent of the others scored the same or below this.



Phenomenology

The search for how participants experience and give meaning to an event,
                        concept or phenomenon.



Pilot survey

A small-scale survey carried out before a large-scale one to evaluate
                        processes and research tools such as questionnaires.



Plausibility

An assessment of whether any truth claim is likely to be true, given the
                        present state of knowledge. Associated with postmodern critiques.



Population

The totality of people, organizations, objects or occurrences from which a
                        sample is drawn.



Positivism

A philosophical assumption that the purpose of theory is application, that
                        the truth can be distinguished from untruth, and that the truth can be
                        determined by either deduction or by empirical support.



Postal survey

A survey in which survey instruments such as questionnaires are distributed
                        by post.



Postmodernism

A set of theories that argue that objective truth is unobtainable. All we
                        have is 'truth claims' that are partial, partisan and
                        incomplete.



Post-positivist

Sometimes referred to as anti-positivist, a research tradition that rejects
                        the belief that human behaviour can be investigated through the use of the
                        methods of scientific inquiry.



Post-test

A test that occurs after a treatment has been administered in an
                        experimental study.



Predictive validity

The extent to which scores on an instrument can predict a subject's
                        future behaviour in relation to the test's content (e.g. do scores on
                        an engineering aptitude test predict the ability to perform engineering
                        tasks?)



Pre-test

A test that occurs before a treatment has been administered in an
                        experimental study.



Probability sampling

Techniques used to ensure that a sample is representative of the population,
                        so that findings can be generalized to that population.



Probe

An interviewing technique in which the interviewer seeks clarification and
                        elaboration of a respondent's answers.



Proposition

A formal statement that relates two or more concepts.



Purposive sampling

A non-probability sampling strategy in which participants are selected on
                        the basis that they are considered to be typical of a wider population.



p-value

The probability value that helps to determine the significance of a
                        statistical test. A small p-value (typically ≤ .05) indicates strong
                        evidence against the null hypothesis.



Qualitative methods

Techniques by which qualitative data are collected and analysed.



Quantitative methods

The systematic and mathematical techniques used to collect and analyse
                        quantitative data.



Quasi-experimental design

Approach using elements of experimental design such as the use of a control
                        group, but without the ability to randomly select the sample.



Quota sampling

A non-probability sampling strategy in which various strata are identified
                        by the researcher who ensures that these strata are proportionately
                        represented within the sample to improve its representativeness.



Random probability sampling

The method of drawing a proportion of a population such that all
                            possible samples have the same probability of being
                        selected.



Range

The difference between the largest observation and the smallest in a sample
                        of a set of variables.



Rank

The position of a member of a set in an order.



Ratio scales

A measurement in which equal differences between points correspond to equal
                        differences on the scale. Used for characteristics where there is an
                        absolute zero point that does have some meaning, that is, an absence of the
                        construct being measured (in contrast to interval scales where the zero is
                        arbitrary) - for example, zero length on a ruler.



Reactivity

The potential for the behaviour of research subjects to change due to the
                        presence of the researcher.



Realism

A research philosophy that presumes that a knowable, objective reality
                        exists.



Reflexivity

The monitoring by a researcher of her or his impact on the research
                        situation being investigated. A stance associated with postmodernism and
                        anti-realism.



Reliability

The degree to which an instrument will produce similar results at a
                        different period.



Representative sample

A sample in which individuals are included in proportion to the number of
                        those in the population who are like them.



Research design

A strategic plan for a research project, setting out the broad structures
                        and features of the research.



Research methodology

Approaches to systematic inquiry developed within a particular paradigm with
                        associated epistemological assumptions (e.g. experimental research, survey
                        research, grounded theory, action research).



Research question

A specific formulation of the issues that a research project will address,
                        often describing general relationships between and among variables that are
                        to be tested.



r-square

The square of the correlation between the response values and the predicted
                        response values.



Sample

A set of objects, occurrences or individuals selected from a parent
                        population for a research study.



Sampling error

The fluctuations in the value of a statistic from different samples drawn
                        from the same population.



Sampling frame

A complete list of the people or entities in the entire population to be
                        addressed by a research study, from which a sample will be drawn.



Secondary data analysis

A reworking of data that have already been analysed to present
                        interpretations, conclusions or knowledge additional to, or different from,
                        those originally presented.



Significance level

The probability of rejecting a true null hypothesis. This should be chosen
                        before a test is performed and is called the alpha value (α). Alpha
                        values are usually kept small (0.05, 0.01 or 0.001), because it is important
                        not to reject the null hypothesis when it is true (a Type I error), that is,
                        there is no difference between the means of the groups being measured.



Skewed distribution

An asymmetrical distribution, positively skewed meaning the larger
                        frequencies being concentrated towards the lower end of the variable, and
                        negatively skewed, towards the higher end.



Snowball sampling

A non-probability sampling strategy through which the first group of
                        participants is used to nominate the next cohort of participants.



Spearman's rank-order

Used to describe the relationship between two ordinal correlation
                        (Spearman's) characteristics or one ordinal and one ratio/interval
                        (rho) characteristic. Represented by the symbol rs.



Standard distribution

The distribution that occurs when a normal random variable has a mean of
                        zero and a standard deviation of one.



Standard deviation

A measure of the spread of data about the mean (average), symbolized by the
                        Greek letter sigma (σ), or the square root of the variance.



Statistical inference

A procedure using the laws of probability to generalize the findings from a
                        sample to an entire population from which the sample was drawn.



Statistical significance

See Significance level.



Statistical validity

The extent to which a study has made use of the appropriate design and
                        statistical methods.



Stratified random sampling

Drawing a sample from a specified stratum - for example, from a
                        company's rural, out-of-town and town centre stores.



Subject error

A measure of the scores achieved on a test that is taken at two different
                        time periods.



Subjects

A term most frequently used in positivist research to describe those who
                        participate in a research study.



Survey

An investigation into one or more variables in a population that may involve
                        the collection of both qualitative and quantitative data.



Symbolic interactionism

A school of sociology in which people are seen as developing a sense of
                        identity through their interactions and communication with others.



Theoretical sampling

The selection of participants within a naturalistic inquiry, based on
                        emerging findings during the progress of the study to ensure that key
                        variables are adequately represented.



Theoretical sensitivity

Often used in grounded theory, involves maintaining an awareness of the
                        subtleties of meaning in data.



Thick description

A detailed account of life 'inside' a field of study.
                        Associated with humanistic ethnography but rejected by postmodern
                        ethnography as just selective or partial descriptions.



Time sampling

An observational method in which data are collected at periodic
                        intervals.



Time series

A set of measures on a single variable collected over time.



Traces

An unobtrusive measure in which physical evidence is collected to provide
                        evidence about social behaviour.



Triangulation

The use of a variety of methods or data sources to examine a specific
                        phenomenon either simultaneously or sequentially in order to improve the
                        reliability of data.



t-test

A test used on the means of small samples to measure whether the samples
                        have both been drawn from the same parent population.



Two-tailed test

The two areas of a normal distribution curve showing the regions of
                        rejection for the null hypothesis where the direction predicted by the
                        hypothesis is not known (hence the need for two tails).



Type I error

An error that occurs when the null hypothesis is rejected when it is true
                        and a researcher concludes that a statistically significant relationship
                        exists when it does not.



Type II error

An error that occurs when the null hypothesis is accepted when it is false
                        and a researcher concludes that no significant relationship exists when it
                        does.



Unit of analysis

The set of objects (individuals, organizations or events) on which the
                        research is focused.



Unobtrusive measures

A non-reactive method of data collection using sources such as archives,
                        documents or the Web.



Validity

The degree to which data in a research study are accurate and credible.



Variable

A characteristic that is measurable, such as income, attitude, colour,
                        etc.



Variance

The differences measured in repeated trials of a procedure. The standard
                        deviation squared - a measure of dispersion.



Verification

Drawing the implications from a set of empirical conclusions to theory.



Wilcoxon signed-rank test

A non-parametric test for comparing ordinal data from two dependent samples
                        or interval/ratio data that are not normally distributed.












References


Abrams, L.S. (2010) 'Sampling "hard to reach" populations in qualitative
                            research: The case of incarcerated youth', Qualitative Social Work, 9: 536-550.



Albaum, G., Wiley, J., Roster, C. and Smith, S.M. (2011) 'Visiting item non-responses in internet survey data
                        collection', International Journal of
                            Market Research, 53(5): 687-703.



Alcadipani, R. and Hodgson, D. (2009) 'By any means
                            necessary? Ethnographic access, ethics and the critical
                            researcher', Tamara Journal,
                            7(4): 127-146.



Alderson, P. and Morrow, V. (2006) 'Multidisciplinary research ethics review: Is it
                        feasible?', International Journal of
                            Social Research Methodology, 9(5): 405-417.



Alford, R.R. (1998) The Craft of
                            Inquiry: Theory, Methods, Evidence. New York: Oxford University
                            Press.



Allen, H. (1997) 'Reflexivity: A comment on feminist ethnography', Journal of Research in Nursing, 2(6): 455-467.



Allen, N.J. and Meyer, J.P. (1990) 'The
                            measurement and antecedents of affective, continuance and normative
                            commitment to the organization', Journal of Occupational Psychology, 63: 1-18.



Alvesson, M. and Deetz, S. (2000) Doing Critical Management
                            Research. London: Sage.


American Psychological Association
                            (1992) American Psychological Association Ethical Principles of
                            Psychologists and Code of Conduct. Available from: http://www.apa.org/ethics/code.html#materials. Accessed 23
November
2001.



Anderson, C.J. and Imperia, C.G. (1992) 'The
                            corporate annual report: A photo analysis of female and male
                            portrayals', Journal of Business
                            Communication, 29: 113-129.



Anderson, L. (1999) 'The open road to ethnography's future', Journal of Contemporary Ethnography, 28: 451-459.



Anderson, T. and Kanuka, H. (2003) e-Research: Methods,
                            Strategies, and Issues. Boston,
                            MA: Allyn &
                        Bacon.



Andrade, H. and Du, Y. (2007) 'Student
                            responses to criteria-referenced self-assessment', Assessment and Evaluation in Higher Education,
                            32(2): 159-181.



Arksey, H. and Knight, P. (1999) Interviewing for Social
                            Scientists. London: Sage.



Armitage, A. and Keeble-Allen, D. (2008) 'Undertaking a
                            structured literature review or structuring a literature review: Tales
                            from the field', Electronic Journal
                            of Business Research Methods, 6(2): 103-113.



Asad, T. (1973) Anthropology
                            and the Colonial Encounter. London: Macmillan.



Atkinson, P.A. (1990) The
                            Ethnographic Imagination: Textual Constructions of Reality. London: Routledge.



Atkinson, P.A. (1992) Understanding
                            Ethnographic Texts. Newbury Park,
                            CA: Sage.



Atkinson, P.A. and Coffey, A. (2004) 'Analysing documentary
                            realities', in D.
Silverman (ed.), Qualitative Research: Theory, Methods and
                        Practice, 2nd edn. London: Sage.



Atkinson, P. and Hammersley, M. (1994) 'Ethnography and
                            participant observation', in P.
Atkinson and M.
Hammersley (eds), Handbook of Qualitative Research. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.



Atkinson, P. and Hammersley, M. (2004) 'Ethnography and
                            participant observation', in N.K.
Denzin and Y.S.
Lincoln (eds), Strategies of Qualitative Inquiry, 2nd edn. Thousand Oaks, CA:
                            Sage. pp. 134-164.



Avison, D., Baskerville, R. and Myers, M. (2001) 'Controlling action research
                        projects', Information Technology and
                            People, 14(1): 28-45.



Ayob, N., Yap, C.S., Sapuan, D.A. and
                            Rashid, Md Z.A. (2013) 'Social entrepreneurship intention among business undergraduates: An
                            emerging economy perspective', Gadjah
                            Mada International Journal of Business, 15(3): 249-267.




Baake, K. (2007) 'Decision-making in a quasi-rational world: Teaching technical,
                            narratological, and rhetorical discourse in report
                        writing', IEEE Transactions on
                            Professional Communication, 50(2): 163-171.



Badger, T.G. (2000) 'Action research, change and methodological rigour', Journal of Nursing Management, 8: 201-207.



Bailey, C.A. (2007) A Guide to
                            Field Research, 2nd edn. Thousand Oaks, CA: Pine Forge Press.



Bailey, K.M. (1983) 'Competitiveness and anxiety in adult second language learning: Looking
                            at and through the diary studies', in H.
Seliger and M.
Long (eds), Classroom-Orientated Research in Second Language Acquisition.
                            Rowley, MA: Newbury House. pp. 67-103.



Bajpai, N. (2010) Business
                            Statistics. New Delhi: Dorling Kindersley.



Bales, R.F. (1950) Interaction
                            Process Analysis: A Method for the Study of Small Groups. London: University of Chicago Press.



Ballantine, J., Levy, M., Martin, A., Munro, I. and Powell, P. (2000) 'An ethical
                            perspective on information systems evaluation', International Journal of Agile Management Systems,
                            2(3): 233-241.



Banks, M. (1995) 'Visual
                            research methods', Social Research
                            Update. University of Surrey.
                        Available from: www.sru.soc.surrey.ac.uk.
                        Accessed 29
August
2014.



Banks, M. (2001) Visual Methods
                            in Social Research. London:
                            Sage.



Banks, M. (2007) Using Visual
                            Data in Qualitative Research. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.



Barbour, R.S. (1999) 'Are
                            focus groups an appropriate tool for studying organizational
                            change?', in J.
Kitzinger and R.S.
Barbour (eds), Developing Focus Group Research: Politics, Theory and Practice.
                            London: Sage.



Bartlett, J.E., Kotrlik, J.W. and Higgins, C.C. (2001) 'Organizational research: Determining appropriate
                            sample size in survey research', Information Technology, Learning and Performance Journal, 19(1): 43-50.



Barringer, B.R. and Bluedorn, A.C. (1999) 'The
                            relationship between corporate entrepreneurship and strategic
                            management', Strategic Management
                            Journal, 20(5): 421-444.



Bartunek, J.M. and Myeong-Gu, S. (2002) 'Qualitative
                            research can add new meanings to quantitative research',
                            Journal of Organizational Behavior, 23(2): 237-242.



Basch, C.E. (1987) 'Focus group interviews: An underutilized research technique for
                            improving theory and practice in health education', Health Education Quarterly, 14: 411-448.



Basu, A. (2015) 'Roles and uses of company websites and social media for Fortune
                            500', SIES Journal of
                            Management, 11(1): 37-42.



Bazeley, P. and Jackson, K. (2013) Qualitative Data Analysis with
                            NVivo, 2nd edn. London: Sage.



Beaudin, C.I and Pelletier, L.R. (1996) 'Consumer-based research: Using focus groups as a method for evaluating
                            quality of care', Journal of Nursing
                            Care Quality, 10: 28-33.



Becker, H.S. (1974) 'Photography and sociology', Studies
                            in Visual Anthropology of Visual Communication, 1(1): 3-26.



Beed, T.W. and Stimson, R.J. (eds) (1985) Survey Interviewing:
                            Theory and Techniques. North
                            Sydney: George Allen
                            &Unwin.



Begley, C.M. (1996) 'Using triangulation in nursing research', Journal of Advanced Nursing, 24: 122-128.



Bell, E. (2012) 'Ways of seeing death: A critical semiotic analysis of organizational
                            memorialization', Visual
                            Studies, 27: 4-17.



Bell, E. and Bryman, A. (2007) 'The ethics of
                            management research: An exploratory content analysis',
                            British Journal of Management, 18(1): 163-177.



Bell, E. and Davison, J. (2013) 'Visual
                            management studies: Empirical and theoretical approaches',
                            International Journal of Management Reviews,
                            15: 167-184.



Bennett, A. (2005) Culture and
                            Everyday Life. London: Sage.



Berg, B.L. (2006) Qualitative
                            Research Methods for the Social Sciences, 6th edn. Needham Heights, MA:
                            Allyn & Bacon.




Bergami, M. and Bagozzi, R.P. (2000) 'Self-categorization, affective commitment and group self-esteem as
                            distinct aspects of social identity in the organization',
                            British Journal of Social Psychology, 30: 555-577.



Berger, L. (2001) 'Inside out: Narrative autoethnography as a path toward
                        rapport', Qualitative Inquiry,
                            7(4): 504-518.



Berry, K. (2011) 'The ethnographer's choice: Why ethnographers do
                            ethnography', Cultural
                        Studies, 11(2): 169-177.



Berry, R. (2004) The Research
                            Project: How To Write It, 5th edn.
                            London: Routledge.



Biemer, P.P. (2010) 'Total survey error: Design, implementation and
                        evaluation', Public Opinion
                            Quarterly, 74(5): 817-848.



Biernacki, P. and Waldorf, D. (1981) 'Snowballing
                            sampling: Problems and techniques of chain referral
                        sampling', Sociological Methods &
                            Research, 10(2): 141-163.



Billingham, J. (2003) Giving
                            Presentations. Oxford: Oxford University Press.



Bishop, L. (2007) 'A reflexive account of reusing qualitative data: Beyond
                            primary/secondary dualism', Sociological Research Online, 12(3): 2.



Black, T.R. (1993) Evaluating
                            Social Science Research. London: Sage.



Black, T.R. (1999) Doing
                            Quantitative Research. London:
                            Sage.



Blumberg, B., Cooper, D.R. and Schindler, P.S.
                            (2005) Business Research Methods. Maidenhead: McGraw-Hill Education.



Blumer, H. (1969) Symbolic
                            Interactionism: Perspectives and Methods. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall.



Bolton, A., Pole, C. and Mizen, P. (2001) 'Picture this: Researching child
                        workers', Sociology, 35: 501-518.



Boote, D.N. and Beile, P. (2005) 'Scholars before
                            researchers: On the centrality of the dissertation literature review in
                            research preparation', Educational
                            Researcher, 34(6): 3-15.



Boote, J. and Mathews, A. (1999) '"Saying
                            is one thing: doing is another": The role of observation in
                            marketing research', Qualitative
                            Market Research: An International Journal, 2(1): 15-21.



Booth, P.F. (1991) Report
                            Writing, 2nd edn. Huntingdon: Elm Publications.



Bosk, C. (2004) 'The ethnographer and the IRB: Comments on Kevin D. Haggerty,
                            "Ethics Creep: Governing Social Science Research in the Name of
                            Ethics"', Qualitative
                            Sociology, 27(4): 417-420.



Boslaugh, S. (2007) Secondary Data
                            Sources for Public Health. Cambridge: Cambridge University
                            Press.



Boud, D. (1995) Enhancing
                            Learning Through Self-assessment. London: Kogan Page.



Bourgois, P. and Schonberg, J. (2009) Righteous Dopefiend.
                            Berkeley: University of California Press.



Bowling, A. (1997) Research
                            Methods in Health. Buckingham:
                            Open University Press.



Boyd, D. and Crawford, K. (2012) 'Critical
                            questions for Big Data', Information,
                            Communication & Society, 15(5): 662-679.



Bradbury-Jones, C., Sambrook, S. and Irvine, F. (2009) 'The phenomenological focus group: An
                            oxymoron?', Journal of Advanced
                            Nursing, 65(3): 663-671.



Bramley, P. and Kitson, B. (1994) 'Evaluating
                            training against business criteria', Journal of European Industrial Training, 18(1): 10-14.



Brannick, T. and Coghlan, D. (2007) 'Reflexivity in
                            management and business research: What do we mean?', The Irish Journal of Management, 27(2): 143-160.



Braun, V. and Clarke, V. (2006) 'Using thematic
                            analysis in psychology', Qualitative
                            Research in Psychology, 3(2): 77-101.



Brennan, J. (1992) Mixing
                            Methods: Qualitative and Quantitative Research. Aldershot: Ashgate.



Brennan, M. and Charbonneau, J. (2009) 'Improving mail
                            survey response rates using chocolate and replacement
                            questionnaires', Public Opinion
                            Quarterly, 73(2): 368-378.



Brewer, J.D. (2000) Ethnography.Buckingham: Open University Press.



Briner, R. and Denyer, D. (2012) 'Systematic review and
                            evidence synthesis as a practice and scholarship tool', in
                            D.M.
Rousseau (ed.), Handbook of Evidence-Based Management: Companies, Classrooms and
                            Research. New York: New York University Press.




Briner, R.B. and Walshe, N.D. (2015) 'From
                            passively received wisdom to actively constructed knowledge: Teaching
                            systematic review skills as a foundation of evidence-based
                            management', Academy of Management
                            Learning & Education, 1: 63-80.



Brinkerhoff, R.O. (2006) Telling
                            Training's Story: Evaluation made Simple, Credible, and
                            Effective. San Francisco:
                            Berrett-Koehler Publishers,
                        Inc.



Brunt, L. (2001) 'Into
                            the community', in P.
Atkinson, A.
Coffey, S.
Delmont, J.
Lofland and L.
Lofland (eds), Handbook of Ethnography. London: Sage.



Bryman, A. (1988) Quantity and
                            Quality in Social Research. London: Routledge.



Bryman, A. (1992) 'Quantitative and qualitative research: Further reflections on their
                            integration', in J.
Brannen (ed.), Mixing Methods: Qualitative and Quantitative Research. Aldershot: Avebury.



Bryman, A. (1999) 'The
                            debate about quantitative and qualitative research', in
                            A.
Bryman and R.G.
Burgess (eds), Qualitative Research. London:
                            Sage. pp. 35-69.



Bryman, A. (2006) 'Integrating quantitative and qualitative research: How is it
                            done?', Qualitative Research,
                            6: 97-113.



Bryman, A. (2007a) Quantity and
                            Quality in Social Research. London: Taylor and
                        Francis.



Bryman, A. (2007b) 'Barriers to integrating quantitative and
                            qualitative research', Journal of
                            Mixed Methods Research, 1(1): 8-22.



Bryman, A. and Bell, E. (2007) Business Research
                            Methods, 2nd edn. Oxford: Oxford
                            University Press.



Buckingham, D. (2009) '"Creative" visual methods in media research:
                            Possibilities, problems and proposals', Media, Culture & Society, 30(4): 633-652.



Bulmer, M. (1984) The Chicago
                            School of Sociology: Institutionalization, Diversity, and the Rise of
                            Sociological Research. Chicago: University of Chicago
                            Press.



Bunge, M. (1993) 'Realism and antirealism in social science', Theory and Decision, 35: 207-235.



Burgess, R.G. (1984) In the Field:
                            An Introduction to Field Research. London: Routledge.



Campbell, C.P. (1997) 'Training course/program evaluation: Principles and
                        practice', Journal of European Industrial
                            Training, 22(8): 323-344.



Campbell, D.T. and Fiske, D. (1959) 'Convergent and
                            discriminant validation by the multitrait-multimethod
                        matrix', Psychological Bulletin,
                            56: 81-105.



Campbell, D.T. and Stanley, J.C. (1963) Experimental and
                            Quasi-experimental Designs for Research. Chicago, IL: Rand McNally.



Cannell, C.F. (1985) 'Overview: Response bias and interviewer variability in
                        surveys', in T.W.
Beed and R.J.
Stimson (eds), Survey Interviewing: Theory and Techniques. North Sydney: George Allen & Unwin.



Cardon, P.W. and Okoro, E.A. (2009) Business Communication
                            Quarterly, 72(3): 355-360.



Carrigan, M. and Kirkup, M. (2001) 'The ethical
                            responsibility of marketers in retail observational research: Protecting
                            stakeholders through the ethical "research
                            covenant"', International
                            Review of Retail, Distribution and Consumer Research, 11(4): 415-435.



Carroll, S. (1994) 'Questionnaire design affects response rate', Marketing News, 28(12): 25-27.



Cassell, J. (1982) 'Harms,
                            benefits, wrongs and rights in fieldwork', in J.E.
Sieber (ed.), The Ethics of Social Research: Fieldwork, Regulation and
                            Publication. New York: Springer-Verlag.



Charmaz, K. (1995) 'Grounded theory', in J.A.
Smith, R.
Harré and L.V.
Langenhove (eds), Rethinking Methods in Psychology. London: Sage.



Charmaz, K. (2013) Constructing
                            Grounded Theory, 2nd edn. London: Sage.



Chenitz, W.C. and Swanson, J.M. (1986) From Practice to Grounded
                            Theory: Qualitative Research in Nursing. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley.



Chia, R. (2002) 'The
                            production of management knowledge: Philosophical underpinnings of
                            research design', in D.
Partington (ed.), Essential Skills for Management Research. London: Sage.



Clark, A. (2012) 'Visual
                            ethics in a contemporary landscape', in S.
Pink (ed.), Advances in Visual Methodology. London: Sage.



Clark, L. (2009) 'Focus group research with children and youth', Journal for Specialists in Paediatric Nursing,
                            14(2): 152-154.




Clarke, A. (1999) Evaluation
                            Research: An Introduction to Principles, Methods and Practice.
                            London: Sage.



Coffey, A. (1999) The
                            Ethnographic Self. London:
                            Sage.



Coghlan, D. (2001) 'Insider action research projects: Implications for practising
                            managers', Management
                        Learning, 32(1): 49-60.



Coghlan, D. and Brannick, T. (2010) Doing Action Research in Your
                            Own Organization, 3rd edn. London: Sage.



Cohen, J.W. (1988) Statistical
                            Power Analysis for the Behavioural Sciences, 2nd edn. Hillsdale,
                            NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum
                            Associates.



Cohen, L. and Manion, L. (2011) Research Methods in
                            Education, 7th edn. London: Routledge.



Collier, M. (2001) 'Approaches to analysis in visual anthropology', in T.
van Leeuwen and C.
Jewitt (eds), The Handbook of Visual Analysis. London: Sage.



Collins, K.M.T., Onwuegbuzie, A.J. and Jiao, Q.G. (2006) 'Prevalence of mixed methods sampling designs in
                            social science research', Evaluation
                            and Research in Education, 19(2), 83-101.



Cook, T.D. and Campbell, D.T. (1979) Quasi-experimentation:
                            Design and Analysis Issues for Field Settings. Chicago, IL: Rand McNally.



Copas, A.J. and Farewell, V.T. (1998) 'Dealing
                            with non-ignorable non-response by using an
                            "enthusiasm-to-respond" variable', Journal of the Royal Statistical Society, 161(3): 385-396.



Cope, J. and Watts, G. (2000) 'Learning by
                            doing: An exploration of experience, critical incidents and reflection
                            in entrepreneurial learning', International Journal of Entrepreneurial Behaviour &
                            Research, 6(3): 104-124.



Cornelsen, L., McGowan, Y., Currie-Murphy, L.M.
                        and Normand, C. (2014) 'Systematic review and meta-analysis of the economic impact of smoking
                            bans in restaurants and bars', Addiction, 109: 720-727.



Costa, A.L. and Kallick, B. (1993) 'Through the
                            lens of a critical friend', Educational Leadership, 52(2): 49-51.



Coulon, A. (1995) Ethnomethodology. London:
                            Sage.



Coyle, J. R. and Thorson, E. (2001) 'The effects of
                            progressive levels of interactivity and vividness in Web marketing
                            sites', Journal of
                        Advertising, 30: 65-77.



Coyne, I.T. (1997) 'Sampling in qualitative research: Purposeful and theoretical sampling;
                            merging or clear boundaries?', Journal of Advanced Nursing, 26:
                            623-630.



Cranny-Francis, A., Waring, W., Stavropoulos, P. and
                            Kirkby, J. (2003) Gender
                            Studies: Terms and Debates. Basingstoke: Palgrave
                            Macmillan.



Creswell, J.W. (2009) Research
                            Design: Qualitative, Quantitative and Mixed Methods Approaches,
                            3rd edn. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.



Creswell, J.W., Plano Clark, V., Gutmann, M. and
                            Hanson, W. (2003) 'Advances in mixed methods design', in A.
Tashakkori and C.
Teddlie (eds), Handbook of Mixed Methods in the Social and Behavioural
                        Sciences. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.



Crotty, M. (1998) The Foundation
                            of Social Research: Meaning and Perspectives in the Research
                            Process. London: Sage.



Crow, G., Wiles, R., Heath, S. and Charles, V. (2006) 'Research ethics and data quality: The implications of informed
                            consent', International Journal of
                            Social Research Methodology, 9(2): 83-95.



Czaja, R. and Blair, J. (2005) Designing Surveys: A Guide to
                            Decisions and Procedures. Thousand
                            Oaks, CA: Sage.



Darlington, Y. and Scott, D. (2002) Qualitative Research in
                            Practice: Stories from the Field. Buckingham: Open University
                            Press.



Dasgupta, S. and Kesharwani, A. (2010) 'Whistleblowing:
                            A survey of literature', The IUP
                            Journal of Corporate Governance, 9(4): 57-70.



Dattalo, C. (2010) Strategies to
                            Approximate Random Sampling and Assignment. New York: Oxford University Press.




Davies, D. and Dodd, J. (2002) 'Qualitative
                            research and the question of rigor', Qualitative Health Research,12(2): 279-289.



Davies, S. (2001) 'New
                            techniques and technologies of surveillance in the workplace',
                            Computer Security Research Centre, The London School of
                        Economics. Available from: www.msf-itpa.org.uk/juneconf3.shtml. Accessed 17
November
2012.



deLaine, M. (2000) Fieldwork,
                            Participation and Practice. London: Sage.



Delanty, G. (1997) Social
                            Science: Beyond Constructivism and Realism,2nd edn. Buckingham: Open University Press.



Dellinger, A.B. and Leech, N.L. (2007) 'Toward a
                            unified framework in mixed methods research', Journal of Mixed Methods Research, 1(4): 309-332.



Dellinger, K. (2002) 'Wearing gender and sexuality "on your sleeve": Dress
                            norms and the importance of occupational and organizational culture at
                            work', Gender Issues, 20: 3-25.



DeLorme, D.E., Zinkhan, G.M. and French, W. (2001) 'Ethics and the internet: Issues associated with
                            qualitative research', Journal of
                            Business Ethics, 33: 271-286.



Denzin, N.K. (1978) Sociological
                            Methods: A Sourcebook, 2nd edn.
                            New York: McGraw-Hill.



Denzin, N.K. (1989) Sociological
                            Methods. New York: McGraw-Hill.



Denzin, N.K. (1990) 'The spaces of postmodernism: Reading Plummer on Blumer',
                            Symbolic Interactionism, 13: 145-154.



Denzin, N.K. (1999) 'Interpretive ethnography for the next century', Journal of Contemporary Ethnography, 28(5): 510-519.



Denzin, N.K. and Lincoln, Y.S. (1994) Handbook of Qualitative
                            Research. Thousand Oaks, CA:
                            Sage.



Denzin, N.K. and Lincoln, Y.S. (2005) The Sage Handbook of
                            Qualitative Research, 2nd edn. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.



De Saulles, M. (2015) 'Push
                            and pull approaches to using Twitter as a marketing tool',
                            Proceedings of the European Conference on
                            e-Learning.



De Vaus, D.A. (2002) Surveys in
                            Social Research, 5th edn. London: George
                            Allen & Unwin.



DeVellis, R.F. (2012) Scale
                            Development: Theory and Applications. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.



Dewey, J. (1933) How We
                            Think. London: D.C. Heath & Co.



Dey, I. (1993) Qualitative
                            Data Analysis. London: Routledge.



Dey, I. (1999) Grounding
                            Grounded Theory: Guidelines for Qualitative Inquiry. London: Academic Press.



Diamantopoulos, A. and Schlegelmilch, B.B. (1997) Taking the Fear out of
                            Data Analysis. London: Harcourt Brace.



Dickens, L. and Watkins, K. (1999) 'Action
                            research: Rethinking Lewin', Management Learning, 30(2): 127-140.



Diener, E. and Crandall, R. (1978) Ethics in Social and
                            Behavioural Research. Chicago,
                            IL: University of Chicago
                            Press.



Dillman, D.A. (2007) Mail and
                            Internet Surveys: The Tailored Design Method, 2nd edn. Chichester: John
                        Wiley.



Dochartaigh, N. (ed.) (2002) The Internet
                            Research Handbook: A Practical Guide for Students and Researchers in the
                            Social Sciences. London: Sage.



Dochartaigh, N.O. (2007) Internet
                            Research Skills: How To Do Your Literature Search and Find Research
                            Information Online. London:
                            Sage.



Dooley, L.M. (2002) 'Case study research and theory building', Advances in Developing Human Resources, 4(3): 335-354.



Douglas, J.D. (1976) Investigative
                            Social Research: Individual and Team Field Research. Beverly Hills, CA: Sage.



Duke, K. (2002) 'Getting beyond the "official line": Reflections on
                            dilemmas of access, knowledge and power in researching policy
                            networks', Journal of Social
                            Policy, 31(1): 39-59.



Dupuis, S.L. (1999) 'Naked truths: Towards a reflexive methodology in leisure
                            research', Leisure Sciences,
                            21(1): 43-64.




Dutta, D. (2014) 'Tweet your tune - social media, the new pied piper in talent
                            acquisition', Vikalpa, 39(3): 93-104.



Easterby-Smith, M. (1994) Evaluating,
                            Management Development, Training and Education, 2nd edn. Aldershot: Gower.



Easterby-Smith, M., Thorpe, R. and Lowe, A. (2002) Management Research: An Introduction, 2nd edn. London: Sage.



Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC)
                            (2004) Research Ethics Framework. Swindon: ESRC.



Ehrich, L. (2005) 'Revisiting phenomenology: Its potential for management
                        research'. In Proceedings of
                            Challenges for Organisations in Global Markets, BritishAcademy of
                            Management Conference, Said Business School, Oxford University. pp. 1-13.



Eisenhardt, K.M. (1989) 'Building theories from case study research', The Academy of Management Review, 14(4): 532-550.



Eisner, E.W. (1991) The
                            Enlightened Eye: Qualitative Inquiry and the Enhancement of Educational
                            Practice. New York, NY: Macmillan Publishing Company.



Ekinci, Y. and Riley, M. (1999) 'Measuring hotel
                            quality: Back to basics', International Journal of Contemporary Hospitality, 11(6): 287-293.



Eland-Goossensen, M.A., van de Goor, L.A.M., Vollemans, E.C.,
                            Hendriks, V.M. and Garretsen, H.F.L. (1997) 'Snowball
                            sampling applied to opiate addicts outside the treatment
                        system', Addiction Research, 5(4): 317-330.



Elger, A. and Smith, C. (1998) 'Exit, voice and
                            "mandate": Management strategies and labour practices of
                            Japanese firms in Britain', British
                            Journal of Industrial Relations, 36(2): 185-207.



Ellen, R.F. (ed.) (1987) Ethnographic Research: A Guide to General Conduct. London: Academic Press.



Ellis, C. (1991) 'Sociological introspection and emotional experience',
                            Symbolic Interaction, 14: 23-50.



Ellis, C. (1995) 'Emotional and ethical quagmires in returning to the
                        field', Journal of Contemporary
                            Ethnography, 24: 68-98.



Ellis, C. (2007) 'Telling secrets, revealing lives: Relational ethics in research with
                            intimate others', Qualitative
                            Inquiry, 13: 3-29.



Emerson, R.M., Fretz, R.I. and Shaw, L.L. (2001) 'Participant observation and fieldnotes', in
                            P.
Atkinson, A.
Coffey, S.
Delmont, J.
Lofland and L.
Lofland (eds), Handbook of Ethnography. London: Sage.



Erikson, K.T. (1967) 'A comment on disguised observation in sociology', Social Problems, 14:
                            366-373.



Eveleth, D.M., Baker-Eveleth, L.J. and Stone, R.W. (2015) 'Potential applicants'
                            expectation-confirmation and intentions', Computers in Human Behavior, 44: 183-190.



Facchinetti, R. (2013) 'The interactivity of corporate websites: A comparative
                        study', Textus, 26(1): 45-55.



Fassin, D. (2006) 'The end of ethnography as collateral damage of ethical
                            regulation?', American
                            Ethnologist, 33(4): 522-524.



Faugier, J. and Sargeant, M. (1997) 'Sampling hard
                            to reach populations', Journal of
                            Advanced Nursing, 26: 790-797.



Featherstone, M. (2000) 'Archiving cultures', British Journal
                            of Sociology, 51(1): 161-184.



Ferdinand, J., Pearson, G., Rowe, M. and Worthington, F. (2007) 'A different kind of ethics', Ethnography, 8(4): 519-543.



Fereday, J. and Muir-Cochrane, E. (2006) 'Demonstrating
                            rigor using thematic analysis: A hybrid approach of inductive and
                            deductive coding and theme development', International Journal of Qualitative Methods,
                            5(1): 80-92.



Fetterman, D.M. (2010) Ethnography:
                            Step-by-Step, 3rd edn. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.



Fielding, J. and Gilbert, N. (2006) Understanding Social
                            Statistics, 2nd edn. London: Sage.



Fielding, N. (2000) 'The
                            shared fate of two innovations in qualitative methodology: The
                            relationship of qualitative software and secondary analysis of archived
                            qualitative data', Forum: Qualitative
                            Social Research, 1(3). Available at: www.qualitative-research.net/index.php.




Fielding, N. (2004) 'Getting the most from archived qualitative data: Epistemological,
                            practical and professional obstacles', International Journal of Social Research
                            Methodology, 7(1): 97-104.



Fielding, N. and Fielding, J. (1986) Linking Data: The Articulation
                            of Qualitative and Quantitative Methods in Social Research. London: Sage.



Fife-Schaw, C. (2000) 'Surveys and sampling issues', in G. Breakwell, S. Hammond and C.
                            Fife-Schaw, Research Methods in
                            Psychology, 2nd edn. London: Sage. pp. 88-104.



Fine, M. (1994) 'Working the hyphens: Reinventing self and other in qualitative
                            research', in N.K.
Denzin and Y.S.
Lincoln (eds), Handbook of Qualitative Research. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage. pp.
                            70-82.



Fink, A. (2002a) How to Sample
                            in Surveys, 2nd edn. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.



Fink, A. (2002b) The Survey
                            Handbook, 2nd edn. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.



Fink, A. (2003) How to Manage,
                            Analyze and Interpret Survey Data. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.



Fink, A. (2005) Conducting
                            Research Literature Reviews. Thousand
                            Oaks, CA: Sage.



Fischer, E. and Parmentier, M.-A. (2010) 'Doing qualitative
                            research with archival data: Making secondary data a primary
                            resource', Advances in Consumer
                            Research: North American Conference Proceedings, 37: 798-799.



Flanders, N.A. (1970) Analyzing
                            Teaching Behaviour. London:
                            Addison-Wesley.



Flick, U. (2009) An
                            Introduction to Qualitative Research, 4th edn. London: Sage.



Foddy, W. (1993) Constructing
                            Questions for Interviews and Questionnaires: Theories and Practice in
                            Social Research. Cambridge:
                            Cambridge University Press.



Freeman, T. (2006) '"Best practice" in focus group research: Making sense of
                            different views', Journal of Advanced
                            Nursing, 56(5): 491-497.



Freire, P. (2000) Pedagogy of
                            the Oppressed. New York: Continuum.



Friedman, V.J. (2001) 'Action
                            science: Creating communities of inquiry in communities of
                            practice', in P.
Reason and H.
Bradbury (eds), Handbook of Action Research: Participative Inquiry and Practice.
                            London: Sage.



Frow, J. and Morris, M. (2003) Australian Cultural
                            Studies. Chicago: University of Illinois.



Funder, M. (2005) 'Bias, intimacy and power in qualitative fieldwork
                        strategies', The Journal of
                            Transdisciplinary Environmental Studies, 4(1): 1-9.



Gatti, M.C. (2011) 'The language of competence in corporate histories for company
                            websites', International Journal of
                            Business Communication, 48(4): 482-502.



Gaventa, J. and Cornwall, A. (2001) 'Power and
                            knowledge', in P.
Reason and H.
Bradbury (eds), Handbook of Action Research: Participative Inquiry and Practice.
                            London: Sage.



Gay, L.R. and Diehl, P.L. (1992) Research Methods for
                            Business and Management. New
                            York: Macmillan.



Gibbert, M., Ruigrok, W. and Wicki, B. (2008) 'Research notes and commentaries: What passes as a
                            rigorous case study?', Strategic
                            Management Journal, 29: 1465-1474.



Giddings, L.S. (2006) 'Mixed-methods research: Positivism dressed in drag?',
                            Journal of Research in Nursing, 11: 195-203.



Gill, J. and Johnson, P. (2002) Research Methods for
                            Managers, 3rd edn. London: Sage.



Gillham, B. (2007) Developing a
                            Questionnaire, 2nd edn. London: Continuum.



Gladstone, B.M., Volpe, T. and Boydell, K.M. (2007) 'Issues encountered in a qualitative secondary
                            analysis of help-seeking in the prodrome to psychosis',
                            Journal of Behavioural Health Services &
                            Research, 34(4): 431-442.



Glaser, B.G. (1992) Basics of
                            Grounded Theory Analysis. Mill
                            Valley, CA: Sociology
                        Press.



Glaser, B.G. and Strauss, A. (1967) The Discovery of Grounded
                            Theory: Strategies for Qualitative Research. Chicago, IL: Aldine.



Goffman, E. (1961) Asylums:
                            Essays on the Social Situation of Mental Patients and Other
                            Inmates. Garden City, NY:
                            Doubleday and Company.



Golafshani, N. (2003) 'Understanding reliability and validity in qualitative
                        research', The Qualitative Report,
                            8(4): 597-607.




Gombrich, E.H. (1978) Meditations on
                            a Hobby Horse. New York: Phaidon.



Gomm, R., Hammersley, M. and Foster, P. (2000) 'Case study and generalisation', in R.
Gomm, M.
Hammersley and P.
Foster (eds), Case Study Method: Key Issues, Key Texts. London: Sage.



Goode, E. (1996) 'The ethics of deception in social research: A case
                        study', Qualitative Sociology,
                            19(1): 11-33.



Gould, A. (2007) A Brief Guide
                            to the Harvard System. Available at: http://www.gre.ac.uk/__data/assets/pdf_file/0019/232570/SS-Referencing-Rev5.pdf.
                        Accessed 8
March
2013.



Gray, D., Griffin, C. and Nasta, T. (2000) Training to Teach in Further and Adult Education. Cheltenham: Stanley Thornes.



Gray, D.E., Iles, P. and Watson, S. (2011) 'Spanning the HRD academic-practitioner divide
                            - bridging the gap through Mode 2 research', Journal of European Industrial Training, 35(3): 247-263.



Gray, D.E., Saunders, M. and Goregaokar, H.
                            (2014) Success in Challenging Times: Generating Social
                            Capital. London: Kingston Smith, University of Surrey and
                            University of Greenwich.



Green, A., Shuttleworth, I. and Lavery, S. (2005) 'Young people, job search and local labour markets:
                            The example of Belfast', Urban
                            Studies, 42(2): 301-324.



Greene, J.C., Caracelli, V.J. and Graham, W.F. (1989) 'Toward a conceptual framework for mixed-method
                            evaluation designs', Educational
                            Evaluation and Policy Analysis, 11(3): 255-274.



Grønhaug, K. and Olson, O. (1999) 'Action research
                            and knowledge creation: Merits and challenges', Qualitative Market Research: An International
                            Journal, 2(1): 6-14.



Grow, J.M. (2006) 'Stories of community: The first ten years of Nike Women's
                            advertising', The American Journal of
                            Semiotics, 22(1-4): 167-198.



Guba, E.G. (1985) 'The
                            content of emergent paradigm research', in Y.S.
Lincoln (ed.), Organizational Theory and Inquiry. Newbury Park, CA: Sage.



Guba, E.G. (1990) The Paradigm
                            Dialog. Newbury Park, CA:
                            Sage.



Guba, E.G. and Lincoln, Y.S. (1994) 'Competing
                            paradigms in qualitative research', in N.K.
Denzin and Y.S.
Lincoln (eds), Handbook of Qualitative Research. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.



Guest, G., Bunce, A. and Johnson, L. (2006) 'How many interviews are enough? An experiment with
                            data saturation and variability', Field Methods, 18(1): 59-82.



Guillemin, M. and Gillam, L. (2004) 'Ethics,
                            reflexivity, and "ethically important moments" in
                            research', Qualitative
                        Inquiry, 10: 261-280.



Guillory, J.E. and Sundar, S.S. (2014) 'How does
                            web site interactivity affect our perceptions of an
                        organization?', Journal of Public
                            Relations Research, 26: 44-61.



Gummesson, E. (2000) Qualitative
                            Methods in Management Research. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.



Gurney, J.N. (2002) 'Female
                            researchers in male-dominated settings', in M.
Pogrebin (ed.), Qualitative Approaches to Criminal Justice: Perspectives from the
                            Field. London: Sage.



Habermas, J. (1972) Knowledge and
                            Human Interests. London: Heinemann.



Haggerty, K.D. (2004) 'Ethics creep: Governing social science research in the name of
                            ethics', Qualitative
                        Sociology, 27(4): 391-414.



Hakim, C. (2000) Research
                            Design: Successful Designs for Social and Economic Research,
                            2nd edn. London: Routledge.



Halcomb, E.J., Gholizadeh, L., DiGiacomo, M., Phillips, J. and Davidson, P.M. (2007) 'Literature
                            review: Considerations in undertaking focus group research with
                            culturally and linguistically diverse groups', Journal of Clinical Nursing, 16(6): 1000-1011.



Hall, G. (2008) 'An ethnographic diary study', ELT
                            Journal, 62(2): 113-122.



Hall, T. (2000) 'At home with the young homeless', International Journal of Social Research Methodology, 3(2): 121-133.



Hall, W.A. and Callery, P. (2001) 'Enhancing the
                            rigor of grounded theory: Incorporating reflexivity and
                            relationality', Qualitative Health
                            Research,11(2): 257-272.



Halpenny, F.G. (2003) 'The
                            thesis and the book', in E.
Harman and I.
Montagnes (eds), The Thesis and the Book, 2nd edn. Toronto: University of Toronto Press.




Hammersley, M. (1990) Reading
                            Ethnographic Research: A Critical Guide. London: Longman.



Hammersley, M. (1992) What's
                            Wrong with Ethnography?
London: Routledge.



Hammersley, M. (2010) 'Can we re-use qualitative data via secondary analysis? Notes on some
                            terminological and substantive issues', Sociological Research Online, 15(1): 5.



Hammersley, M. and Atkinson, P. (2007) Ethnography: Principles in
                            Practice, 3rd edn. London: Routledge.



Hancock, D.R. and Flowers, C.P. (2001) 'Comparing
                            social desirability responding on World Wide Web and paper-administered
                            surveys', Educational Technology
                            Research and Development, 49(1): 5-13.



Hanson, W., Plano Clark, V.L., Petska, K.S., Creswell, J.W. and Creswell, J.D. (2005) 'Mixed
                            methods research designs in counseling psychology', Journal of Counseling Psychology, 52(2): 224-235.



Hardless, C., Nilsson, M. and Nulden, U. (2005) '"Copernicus": Experiencing a failing
                            project for reflection and learning', Management Learning, 36(2): 181-217.



Hardy, C. and Phillips, N. (1999) 'No joking
                            matter: Discursive struggle in the Canadian refugee
                        system', Organization Studies,
                            20(1): 1-24.



Hareven, T. and Langenback, R. (1978) Amoskeag: Life and work in an
                            American factory city. New
                            York: Pantheon Press.



Harrigan, J.I. (2008) 'Proxemics, kinesics and gaze', in J.I.
Harrigan, R.
Rosenthal and K.R.
Scherer (eds), The New Handbook of Methods in Nonverbal Behavior Research.
                            Oxford: Oxford University Press.



Harrigan, P., Ramsey
E. and Ibbotson, P. (2012) 'Exploring and
                            explaining SME marketing: investigating e-CRM using a mixed methods
                            approach', Journal of Strategic
                            Marketing, 20(2): 127-163.



Hart, C. (1998) Doing a
                            Literature Review. London:
                            Sage.



Hart, C. (2001) Doing a
                            Literature Search. London:
                            Sage.



Hartley, J. (2001) 'Employee surveys: Strategic aid or hand-grenade for organisational and
                            cultural change?', The International
                            Journal of Public Sector Management, 14(3): 184-204.



Hartley, J. (2004) 'Case
                            study research', in C.
Cassell and G.
Symon (eds), Essential Guide to Qualitative Methods in Organizational
                            Research. London: Sage.



Have, P.T. (1999) Doing
                            Conversational Analysis: A Practical Guide. London: Sage.



Heaton, J. (1998) 'Secondary analysis of qualitative data', Social Research Update, Autumn No. 22. University of Surrey.



Heaton, J. (2004) Reworking
                            Secondary Data. London: Sage.



Heaton, J. (2008) 'Secondary analysis of qualitative data: An overview',
                            Historical Social Research, 33: 33-45.



Hedrick, T.E., Bickman, L. and Rog, D.J. (1993) Applied Research Design: A Practical Guide. Newbury Park, CA: Sage.



Heisley, D.D. and Levy, S.J. (1991) 'Autodriving: A photoelicitation technique. Journal of Consumer Research, 18:
                            257-272.



Helgeson, J.G., Voss, K.E. and Terpening, W.D.
                            (2002) 'Determinants of mail-survey response: Survey
                            design factors and respondent factors', Psychology & Marketing, 19(3): 303-328.



Hellman, H. (1998) Great Feuds in
                            Science. New York: John Wiley & Sons.



Herbert, M. (1990) Planning a
                            Research Project: A Guide for Practitioners and Trainees in the Helping
                            Professions. London: Cassell Educational.



Heron, J. and Reason, P. (2001) 'The practice of
                            co-operative inquiry: Research "with" rather than
                            "on" people', in P.
Reason and H.
Bradbury (eds), Handbook of Action Research: Participative Inquiry and Practice.
                            London: Sage.



Herrera, C.D. (1999) 'Two arguments for "covert methods" in social
                            research', British Journal of
                            Sociology, 50(2): 331-343.



Heyl, B.S. (2001) 'Ethnographic interviewing', in P.
Atkinson, A.
Coffey, S.
Delmont, J.
Lofland and L.
Lofland (eds), Handbook of Ethnography. London: Sage.


Higher Education and Research in the UK
                            (HERO) (2007)
                        Available at: www.hero.ac.uk.




Hindmarsh, J. and Tutt, D. (2012) 'Video in analytic
                            practice', in S.
Pink (ed.), Advances in Video Methodology. London: Sage.



Hinds, P.S., Vogel, R.J. and Clarke-Steffen, L.
                            (1997) 'The possibilities and pitfalls of doing a
                            secondary analysis of a qualitative data set', Qualitative Health Research,7(3): 408-424.



Hoepfl, M.C. (1997) 'Choosing qualitative research: A primer for technology education
                            researchers', Journal of Technology
                            Education, 9(1): 47-61.



Hofferth, S.L. (2005) 'Secondary data analysis in family research', Journal of Marriage and Family, 67(4): 891-907.



Hollebeek, L. (2011) 'Exploring customer brand engagement: definition and
                        themes', Journal of Strategic
                            Marketing, 19(7): 555-573.



Holliday, A. (2002) Doing and
                            Writing Qualitative Research. London: Sage.



Holstein, J.A. and Gubrium, J.F. (1994) 'Phenomenology,
                            ethnomethodology and interpretive practice', in N.K.
Denzin and Y.S.
Lincoln (eds), Handbook of Qualitative Research. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.



Holstein, J. and Gubrium, J.F. (1995) The Active
                            Interview. Thousand Oaks, CA:
                            Sage.



Holstein, J.A. and Gubrium, J.F. (2008) 'Interpretive
                            practice and social action', in N.K.
Denzin and Y.S.
Lincoln (eds), Strategies of Qualitative Inquiry. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.



Homan, R. (1991) The Ethics of
                            Social Research. Harlow: Longman.



Homberg, F. and Bui Hong, T.M. (2013) 'Top
                            management team diversity: A systematic review', Group & Organization Management, 38(4): 455-479.



Hossein, C.S. (2013) 'The black social economy: Perseverance of banker ladies in the
                            slums', Annals of Public and
                            Cooperative Economics, 84(4): 423-442.



House, E.R. (1980) Evaluating
                            with Validity. Beverly Hills,
                            CA: Sage.



Hudson, J.M. and Bruckman, A. (2004) '"Go
                            away": Participant objections to being studied and the ethics of
                            chatroom research', The Information
                            Society, 20: 127-139.



Hughes, J. and Sharrock, W. (1997) The Philosophy of Social
                            Research. London: Addison Wesley Longman.



Hugill, K. (2012) 'The "auto/biographical" method and its potential to
                            contribute to nursing research', Nurse Researcher, 20(2): 28-32.



Huisman, K. (2008) '"Does this mean you're not going to come visit me
                            anymore?": An inquiry into an ethics of reciprocity and
                            positionality in feminist ethnographic research', Sociological Inquiry, 78(3): 372-396.



Hunter, D., Bailey, A. and Taylor, B. (1994) The Art of Facilitation. Auckland: Tandem
                        Press.



Hunter, W.C. (2008) 'A typology of photographic representations for tourism: Depictions of
                            groomed spaces', Tourism
                            Management, 29(2): 354-365.



Hurworth, R. (2003) Photo-Interviewing in Research. University of Surrey: Social
                            Research Update.



Husserl, E. (1983) Ideas
                            Pertaining to a Pure Phenomenology and to a Phenomenological
                            Philosophy. The Hague: Martinus Nijhoff Publishers.



Hutchby, I. and Wooffitt, R. (1998) Conversational Analysis:
                            Principles, Practices and Applications. Cambridge: Polity Press.


Internet World Stats. Available
                        at: www.internetworldstats.com/stats.htm. Accessed 27
March
2016.



Irvine, A. (2011) 'Duration, dominance and depth in telephone and face-to-face interviews:
                            a comparative exploration', International Journal of Qualitative Methods, 10(3): 202-220.



Irwin, K. (2006) 'Into the dark heart of ethnography: The lived ethics and inequality of
                            intimate field relationships', Qualitative Sociology, 29: 155-175.



Israel, M. and Hay, I. (2006) Research Ethics for Social
                            Scientists. London: Sage.



Isaac, S. and Michael, W.B. (1995) Handbook of Research and
                            Evaluation. San Diego: EdITS.



Jankowicz, A.D. (2004) Business
                            Research Projects for Students, 4th
                        edn. London: Cengage Learning.



Jarvis, P. (1995) Adult and
                            Continuing Education: Theory and Practice. London: Routledge.



Jewitt, C. (2012) 'An
                            introduction to using video for research', National Centre for Research Methods Working Paper 03/12.
                            ESRC.



JISCmail (2008) JISCmail
                            Ethics Statement. Available at: http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/help/policy/ethics.htm. Accessed 3
January
2008.



Jobber, D. and O'Reilly, D. (1996) 'Industrial mail
                            surveys: Techniques for inducing response', Marketing and Intelligence, 14(1): 29-34.



Johnson, P. and Harris, D. (2002) 'Qualitative and
                            quantitative issues in research design', in D.
Partington (ed.), Essential Skills for Management Research. London: Sage.



Johnson, R.B. and Onwuegbuzie, A.J. (2004) 'Mixed
                            methods research: A research paradigm whose time has
                        come', Educational Researcher,
                            33(7): 14-26.



Johnson, R.B., Onwuegbuzie, A.J. and Turner, L.A. (2007) 'Toward a definition of mixed methods
                            research', Journal of Mixed Methods
                            Research, 1(2): 112-133.



Jones, M.L. (2007) 'Using
                            software to analyse qualitative data', Research Online. Available at: http://ro.uow.edu.au/commpapers/429. Accessed 28
April
2016.



Jordan, S. and Yeomans, D. (1995) 'Critical
                            ethnography: Problems in contemporary theory and
                        practice', British Journal of Sociology
                            of Education, 16(3): 389-408.



Jungermann, H., Hahn, P. and Ferger, R. (1981) 'Observation of interaction processes in practical
                            training', Journal of Occupational
                            Psychology, 54: 233-245.



Kabbani, R. (1986) Europe's Myths of Orient. Bloomington: Indiana University
                            Press.



Kahan, J.P. (2001) 'Focus groups as a tool for policy analysis', Analysis of Social Issues and Public Policy, 1(1):129-146.



Kaufman, R. and Keller, J.M. (1994) 'Levels of
                            evaluation: Beyond Kirkpatrick', Human Resource Development Quarterly, 5(4): 371-380.



Keats, D.M. (2000) Interviewing:
                            A Practical Guide for Students and Professionals. Buckingham: Open University Press.



Kelemen, M. and Rumens, N. (2012) 'Pragmatism and
                            heterodoxy in organization research: Going beyond the
                            quantitative/qualitative divide', International Journal of Organizational Analysis, 20(1): 5-12.



Kelly, G.A. (1955) The Psychology
                            of Personal Constructs. New
                            York: Norton.



Kemmis, S. (1993) 'Action
                            research', in M.
Hammersley (ed.), Educational Research: Current Issues. London: Paul
                            Chapman/Open University.



Kemper, E.A., Stringfield, S. and Teddlie, C. (2003) 'Mixed methods sampling strategies in social science
                            research', in A.
Tashakkori and C.
Teddlie (eds), A Handbook of Mixed Methods Research in Social and Behavioral
                            Research. Thousand Oaks, CA:
                            Sage.



Kenett, R.S. (2006) 'On the planning and design of sample surveys', Journal of Applied Statistics, 33(4): 405-415.



Kenyon, E. and Hawker, S. (1999) '"Once
                            would be enough": Some reflections on the issue of safety for
                            lone researchers', International
                            Journal of Social Research Methodology, 2(4): 313-327.



Keppel, G., Saufley, W.H. and Tokunaga, H. (1992) Introduction to Design and Analysis, 2nd edn. New York: W.H. Freeman and Company.



Kerin, R.A. and Peterson, R.A. (1983) 'Scheduling
                            telephone interviews', Journal of
                            Advertising Research, 23(2): 41-47.



Kerlinger, F.N. and Lee, H.B. (2000) Foundations of Behavioural
                            Research, 4th edn. Fort Worth, TX: Harcourt College Publishers.



Kettner, M. (1993) 'Scientific knowledge, discourse ethics and consensus formation in the
                            public domain', in E.
Winkler and J.
Coombs (eds), Applied Ethics. Oxford: Blackwell.



Kidder, L.H. (1981) 'Qualitative research and quasi-experimental frameworks',
                        in M.B.
Brewer and B.E.
Collins (eds), Scientific Inquiry and the Social Sciences. San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass.



King, H. (2012) Indonesia and
                            Vietnam: An Ethnographic Study Exploring the Consumer Landscape and
                            Opportunities for the Irish Dairy Industry. Dublin: BordBia.



Kinnunen, U., Mauro, S., Nätti, J. and
                            Happonen, M. (2000) 'Organizational antecedents and outcomes of job insecurity: A
                            longitudinal study in three organizations in Finland',
                            Journal of Organizational Behaviour, 21: 442-459.




Kirkpatrick, D.L. (1959) 'Techniques for evaluating training programmes', Journal of the American Society of Training
                            Directors, 13(3-9): 21-26.



Kirkpatrick, D. (2005) Evaluating
                            Training Programs: The Four Levels, 3rd edn. Williston, VT: Berrett-Koehler Publishers, Inc.



Kirkup, M. and Carrigan, M. (2000) 'Video
                            surveillance research in retailing; ethical issues', International Journal of Retail and Distribution
                            Management, 28(11): 470-480.



Kitzinger, J. (1994) 'The methodology of Focus Groups: The importance of interaction between
                            research participants', Sociology of
                            Health & Illness, 16(1): 103-121.



Kitzinger, J. (1995) 'Qualitative research: Introducing focus groups', British Medical Journal, 311: 299-302.



Kitzinger, J. and Barbour, R.S. (1999) 'Introduction: The
                            challenge and promise of focus groups', in J.
Kitzinger and R.S.
Barbour (eds), Developing Focus Group Research: Politics, Theory and Practice.
                            London: Sage.



Klein, R.D. (1983) 'How to
                            do what we want to do: Thoughts about feminist
                        methodology', in G.
Bowles and R.D.
Klein (eds), Theories of Women's Studies. London: Routledge and Kegan
                            Paul. pp. 88-104.



Knight, P. and Yorke, M. (2002) Skills Plus: Tuning the
                            Undergraduate Curriculum. Available at www.heacademy.ac.uk/945.htm. Accessed 29
May
2015.



Korac-Kakabadse, N., Kakabadse, A. and Kouzmin, A. (2002) 'Ethical considerations in management research: A
                            "truth" seeker's guide', in D.
Partington (ed.), Essential Skills for Management Research. London: Sage.



Kothari, C.R. (2004) Research
                            Methodology: Methods and Techniques. New Delhi: New Age International
                            Publishers.



Krahn, G.L., Hohn, M.F. and Kime, C. (1995) 'Incorporating qualitative approaches into clinical
                            child psychology research', Journal
                            of Clinical Child Psychology, 24(2): 204-213.



Krejcie, R. and Morgan, D. (1970) 'Determining
                            sample size for research activities', Educational and Psychological Measurement, 30: 607-610.



Krueger, R.A. (1994) Focus Groups:
                            A Practical Guide for Applied Research. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.



Krueger, R.A. (1998) Developing
                            Questions for Focus Groups. London: Sage.



Krueger, R.A. and Casey, M.A. (2009) Focus Groups: A Practical
                            Guide for Applied Research, 4th edn.
                            Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.



Kuhn, T.S. (1996) The Structure
                            of Scientific Revolutions, 3rd edn.
                            Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press.



Kumar, S., Yadav, Manoj, P.S. and Chowdhary, N. (2010) 'Organising human resource management function in
                            small hospitals', Pranjana,
                            13(2): 16-26.



Kunter, A. and Bell, E. (2006) 'The promise and
                            potential of visual organizational research', M@n@gement, 9(3): 117-197.



Kuzel, A. (1992) 'Sampling in qualitative inquiry', in B.
Crabtree and W.
Miller (eds), Doing Qualitative Research. Newbury
                            Park, CA: Sage.



Kvale, S. (1996) InterViews: An
                            Introduction to Qualitative Research Interviewing. Thousand Oaks: CA: Sage.



Kvale, S. and Brinkmann, S. (2008) Interviews: Learning the Craft
                            of Qualitative Research Interviewing, 2nd end. Thousand Oaks, CA:
                            Sage.



L'Angelle, D.D. (1996) 'An
                            approach to program evaluation', in C.P.
Campbell (ed.), Education and Training for Work. Lancaster, PA: Technomic
                            Publishing.



Langer, J. (2001) The Mirrored
                            Window: Focus Groups from a Moderator's Point of View.
                            Ithaca: Paramount Market.



Lather, P. (1986) 'Research as praxis', Harvard
                            Educational Review, 56: 257-277.



Lather, P. (1991) Getting Smart:
                            Feminist Research and Pedagogy with/in the Postmodern. New York: Routledge.




Lathlean, J. (1994) 'Ethical dimensions of action research', in I.
De Raeve (ed.), Nursing Research: An Ethical and Legal Appraisal. London: BailliereTindall. pp. 32-41.



Laurie, H. (1992) 'Multiple methods in the study of household resource
                        allocation', in J.
Brannen (ed.), Mixing Methods: Qualitative and Quantitative Research. Aldershot: Ashgate.



LeCompte, M.D. and Goetz, J.P. (1982) 'Problems of
                            reliability and validity in ethnographic research', Review of Educational Research, 52(1): 31-60.



Lee, R.M. (1993) Doing Research
                            on Sensitive Topics. London:
                            Sage.



Lee, R.M. (2000) Unobtrusive
                            Measures in Social Research. Buckingham: Open University
                            Press.



Lee, Y. and Kozar, K.A. (2006) 'Investigating
                            the effect of website quality on e-business success: An analytic
                            hierarchy process (AHP) approach', Decision Support Systems, 42(3): 1383-1401.



Lenette, C. and Boddy, J. (2013) 'Visual
                            ethnography and refugee women: nuanced understandings of lived
                            experiences', Qualitative Research
                            Journal, 13(1): 72-89.



Leonard-Cross, E. (2010) 'Developmental coaching: Business benefit - fact or fad? An
                            evaluative study to explore the impact of coaching in the
                            workplace', International Coaching
                            Psychology Review, 5(1): 36-47.



Lewin, K. (1946) 'Action research and minority problems', Journal of Social Issues, 2(4): 34-36.



Lewis, J. (2003) 'Design
                            issues', in J.
Ritchie and J.
Lewis (eds), Qualitative Research Practice. London: Sage.



Lieberson, S. (2000) 'Small
                            N's and big conclusions: An examination of the reasoning in
                            comparative studies based on a small number of cases', in
                            R.
Gomm, M.
Hammersley and P.
Foster (eds), Case Study Method: Key Issues, Key Texts. London: Sage.



Lincoln, Y.S. (1985) 'The
                            substance of the emergent paradigms: Implications for
                        researchers', in Y.S.
Lincoln (ed.), Organizational Theory and Inquiry. Newbury Park, CA: Sage.



Lincoln, Y.S. (2001) 'Engaging sympathies: Relationships between action research and social
                            constructivism', in P.
Reason and H.
Bradbury (eds), Handbook of Action Research: Participative Inquiry and Practice.
                            London: Sage.



Lincoln, Y.S. and Guba, E.G. (1994) Naturalistic
                            Inquiry, 2nd edn. Newbury Park, CA: Sage.



Lincoln, Y.S. and Guba, E.G. (2000) 'The only
                            generalisation is: There is no generalisation', in R.
Gomm, M.
Hammersley and P.
Foster (eds), Case Study Method: Key Issues, Key Texts. London: Sage.



Lincoln, Y.S. and Tierney, W.G. (2004) 'Qualitative
                            research and institutional review boards', Qualitative Inquiry, 10(2): 219-234.



Lindlof, T.R. and Taylor, B.C. (2002) Qualitative Communication
                            Research Methods, 2nd edn. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.



Locke, K. (2001) Grounded
                            Theory in Management Research. London: Sage.



Locke, L.F., Spirduso, W.W. and Silverman, S.J.
                            (2013) Proposals that Work: A Guide for Planning Dissertations
                            and Grant Proposals, 6th edn. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.



Lofland, J. and Lofland, L.H. (1995) Analyzing Social
                            Situations, 3rd edn. Belmont, CA: Wadsworth.



Lofland, J. and Lofland, L.H. (2006) Analyzing Social Settings:
                            A Guide to Qualitative Observation and Analysis. Belmont, CA: Wadsworth Publishing.



Lozar Manfreda, K., Bosnjak, M., Berzelak, J., Hass, L. and Vehovar, V. (2008) 'Web surveys
                            versus other survey modes: A meta-analysis comparing response
                            rates', International Journal of
                            Market Research, 50(1): 79-104.



MacIntosh, J. (1981) 'Focus groups in distance nursing education', Journal of Advanced Nursing, 18: 1981-1985.



Madill, A., Jordan, A. and Shirley, C. (2000) 'Objectivity and reliability in qualitative
                            analysis: Realist, contextualist and radical constructionist
                            epistemologies', British Journal of
                            Psychology, 91: 1-20.



Mael, F. (1988) Organizational
                            Identification: Construct Redefinition and a Field Application with
                            Organizational Alumni. Wayne State
                            University. Unpublished work.



Mael, F. and Ashforth, B.E. (1992) 'Alumni and
                            their alma mater: A partial test of the reformulated model of
                            organizational identification', Journal of Organizational Behavior, 13(1): 103-123.




Mael, F.A., and Ashforth, B.E. (1995) 'Loyal from
                            day one: Biodata, organizational identification, and turnover among
                            newcomers', Personnel
                            Psychology, 48: 309-333.



Mangione, T.W. (1995) Mail Surveys:
                            Improving the Quality. Thousand Oaks,
                            CA: Sage.


Market Research Society (2010) Code of Conduct. London:
                            Market Research Society.



Martinko, M.J. and Gardner, W.L. (1990) 'Structured
                            observation and managerial work: A replication and
                        synthesis', Journal of Management
                            Studies, 27(3): 329-357.



Mason, J. (2002) Qualitative
                            Researching, 2nd edn. London: Sage.



Mauthner, N.S. and Doucet, A. (2003) 'Reflexive
                            accounts and accounts of reflexivity in qualitative data
                        analysis', Sociology, 37(3): 413-431.



Mauthner, N.S., Parry, O. and Backett-Milburn, K.
                            (1998) 'The data are out there, or are they? Implications
                            for archiving and revisiting qualitative data', Sociology, 32(4): 733-745.



Maxwell, J.A. (1996) Qualitative
                            Research Design: An Interactive Approach. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.



Maxwell, J.A. (1997) 'Designing a qualitative study', in L.
Bickman and D.J.
Rog (eds), Handbook of Applied Social Research Methods. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage. pp. 69-100.



Mayring, P. (1983) Qualitative
                            Inhaltsanalyse. Grundlagen und Techniken, 7th edn. Weinheim: Deutscher Studien Verlag.



Mays, N. (1995) 'Qualitative research: Rigour and qualitative research',
                            British Medical Journal, 311: 109-122.



Mays, N. and Pope, C. (1996) Qualitative Research in Health
                            Care. London: BMJ.



McBurney, D.H. and White, T.L. (2009) Research Methods,
                            8th edn. Belmont, CA: Wadsworth.



McCarthy, P. and Hatcher, C. (2002) Presentation Skills: The
                            Essential Guide for Students. London: Sage.



McKay, J. and Marshall, P. (2001) 'The dual
                            imperatives of action research', Information Technology and People, 14(1): 46-59.



McKenzie, T.L. (2006) 'System for Observing Play and Recreation in Communities (SOPARC):
                            Reliability and feasibility of measures', Journal of Physical Activity & Health,
                            3(1): 208-222.



McKie, L. and Ryan, L. (2012) 'Exploring
                            trends and challenges in sociological research', Sociology, 46(1): 1-7.



McKinnon, I. (2011) 'Expanding cartographic practices in the social sciences',
                            The Sage Handbook of Visual Research
                        Methods. London: Sage. pp.452-472.



McNamara, P. (2009) 'Feminist ethnography: Storytelling that makes a
                        difference', Qualitative Social
                            Work, 8(2): 161-177.



McNiff, J. (1988) Action
                            Research: Principles and Practice. London: Routledge.



McNiff, J. and Whitehead, J. (2011) All You Need To Know About
                            Action Research, 2nd edn. London: Sage.



McNiff, J., Lomax, P. and Whitehead, J. (1996) You and Your Action Research Project. London: Routledge.



McTaggart, R. (1997) 'Guiding principles for participatory action research', in
                            R.
McTaggart (ed.), Participatory Action Research. Albany, NY: State University of New York Press.



Melanthiou, Y., Pavlou, F. and Constantinou, E.
                            (2015) 'The use of social network sites as an
                            e-recruitment tool', Journal of
                            Transitional Management, 20(1): 31-49.



Merriam, S.B., Johnson-Bailey, J., Lee, M., Ntseane, G. and Muhamad, M. (2001) 'Power and
                            positionality: Negotiating insider/outsider status within and across
                            cultures', International Journal of
                            Lifelong Education, 20(5): 405-416.



Mickelson, E. (2011) 'Autobiography and self-hood in the practice of adult
                        learning', Adult Education
                            Quarterly, 61(1): 3-21.



Miles, M.B. and Huberman, A.M. (1994) Qualitative Data
                            Analysis, 2nd edn. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.



Miles, M.B., Huberman, A.M. and Saldana, J.M. (2013) Qualitative Data Analysis: A Methods Sourcebook, 3rd edn. Thousand
                            Oaks, CA: Sage.




Milgram, S. (1974) Obedience to
                            Authority: An Experimental View. New
                            York: Harper Collins.



Miller, T., Birch, M., Mauthner, M. and
                            Jessop, J. (2012) Ethics in
                            Qualitative Research. London:
                            Sage.



Mingers, J. (2000) 'What is it to be critical? Teaching a critical approach to management
                            undergraduates', Management
                            Learning, 31(2): 219-237.



Mintzberg, H. (1970) 'Structured observation as a method to study managerial
                        work', Journal of Management
                            Studies, 7(1): 87-104.



Modell, J.A. and Brodsky, C. (1994) Envisioning Homestead: Using
                            Photographs in Interviewing. Interactive Oral History
                            Interviewing. Hillsdale, NJ:
                            Erlbaum.



Moreno, J.D. (1999) 'Ethics of research design', Accountability in Research, 7: 175-182.



Morgan, D.L. (1997) Focus Groups
                            as Qualitative Research, 2nd edn.
                            Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.



Morgan, D.L. (1998) 'Practical strategies for combining qualitative and quantitative
                            methods: Applications to health research', Qualitative Health Research, 8: 362-376.



Morgan, D.L. and Krueger, R.A. (1993) 'When to use focus
                            groups and why', in D.L.
Morgan (ed.), Successful Focus Groups. London: Sage.



Morrel-Samuels, P. (2002) 'Getting the truth into workplace surveys', Harvard Business Review, February.



Morris, L.L., Fitz-Gibbon, C.T. and Freeman, M.E. (1987) How to Communicate Evaluation Findings.Newbury Park, CA: Sage.



Morris, R.N. (1991) 'Cultural analysis through semiotics: Len Norris' cartoons on
                            official bilingualism', Canadian
                            Review of Sociology and Anthropology, 28(2): 225-254.



Morse, J.M. (1991) 'Approaches to qualitative-quantitative methodological
                            triangulation', Nursing
                            Research, 40: 120-123.



Motulsky, H. (1995) Intuitive
                            Biostatistics. Oxford University
                            Press. Available at: http://www.graphpad.com/www/book/Choose.htm. Accessed 4
January
2001.



Moustakas, C. (1990) Heuristic
                            Research: Design, Methodology, and Applications. Newbury Park, CA: Sage.



Moustakas, C.E. (1994) Phenomenological Research Methods. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.



Mulhall, A. (2003) 'In the field: Notes on observation in qualitative
                        research', Journal of Advanced
                            Nursing, 41(3): 306-313.



Mumford, E. (2001) 'Advice for an action researcher', Information Technology and People, 14(1): 12-27.



Murphy, E. and Dingwall, R. (2001) 'The ethics of
                            ethnography', in P.
Atkinson, A.
Coffey, S.
Delmont, J.
Lofland and L.
Lofland (eds), Handbook of Ethnography. London: Sage.



Murray, D.M. (1994) 'Write
                            research to be read', in M.
Langenbach, C.
Vaughn and L.
Aagaard (eds), An Introduction to Educational Research. Needham Heights, MA: Allyn and Bacon.



Musson, G. (1998) 'Life
                            histories', in G.
Symon and C.
Cassell (eds), Qualitative Methods and Analysis in Organisational Research.
                            London: Sage.



Napolitano, M., McCauley, L., Beltran, M. and
                            Philips, J. (2002) 'The dynamic process of focus groups with migrant farmworkers: The
                            Oregon experience', Journal of
                            Immigrant Health, 4: 177-182.


National Institute of Health
                            (2008) Directives for Human Experimentation. Available
                        at: www.hhs.gov/ohrp/archive/nurcode.html



Neergaard, H. (2007) 'Sampling in entrepreneurial settings', in H.
Neergaard and J.P.
Ulhoi (eds), Handbook of Qualitative Research Methods in Entrepreneurship
                            Research. Cheltenham: Edward Elgar Publishing Ltd.



Neveril, T. (2004) 'Qualitatively speaking: Ten qualities for qualitative
                            researchers', Quirk's
                            Marketing Research Media, June. Available from: www.quirks.com/articles/a2004/20040610.aspx. Accessed 21
July
2016.



Nicholson, N. (1994) 'Ethics in organizations: A framework for theory and
                        research', Journal of Business
                            Ethics, 13: 581-596.



Niiniluoto, I. (1999) Critical
                            Scientific Realism. Oxford:
                            Oxford University Press.




Oakley, A. (1981) 'lnterviewing women: A contradiction in terms', in H.
Roberts (ed.), Doing Feminist Research. London: Routledge and Kegan
                            Paul.



Oakley, A. (1999) 'Paradigm wars: Some thoughts on a personal and public
                        trajectory', International Journal of
                            Social Research Methodology, 2(3): 247-254.


OAS (Organization of American
                            States) (2013) Department of International
                            Law. Available at: http://www.oas.org/dil/data_protection_principles.htm. Accessed
                            11
March
2013.



O'Leary, Z. (2014) The Essential
                            Guide to Doing Research. London: Sage.



Onwuegbuzie, A.J. and Leech, N.L. (2007) 'Sampling
                            designs in qualitative research: Making the sampling process more
                            public', The Qualitative
                            Report, 12(2): 238-254.



Onwuegbuzie, A.J., Johnson, R.B. and Collins, K.M.T.
                            (2009) 'Call for mixed analysis: A philosophical framework
                            for combining qualitative and quantitative approaches',
                            International Journal of Multiple Research
                            Approaches, 3(2): 114-139.



Oppenheim, A.N. (1992) Questionnaire
                            Design, Interviewing and Attitude Measurement, 2nd edn. London: Pinter.



Ortiz, S.M. (2004) 'Leaving the private world of wives of professional athletes: A male
                            sociologist's reflections', Journal of Contemporary Ethnography, 33: 466-487.



Ozkazanc-Pan, B. (2014) 'Postcolonial feminist analysis of high-technology
                        enrepreneuring', International Journal of
                            Entrepreneurial Behavior & Research, 20(2): 155-172.



Pallant, J. (2013) SPSS Survival
                            Manual, 5th edn. Maidenhead: OUP/McGraw-Hill.



Pankey-Videla, N. (2012) 'Informed consent as process: Problematizing informed consent in
                            organizational ethnographies', Qualitative Sociology, 35(1): 1-21.



Park, N. and Lee, K.M. (2007) 'Effects of discussions
                            in online news forums on corporate reputation'. Paper presented at the 57th annual conference of the
                            International Communication Association, San Francisco, CA. May.



Park, P. (2001) 'Knowledge and participatory research', in P.
Reason and H.
Bradbury (eds), Handbook of Action Research: Participative Inquiry and Practice.
                            London: Sage.



Parker, L. (2006) 'Photo-elicitation: An ethno-historical accounting and management
                            research prospect.' Paper
                            presented to the Interdisciplinary Perspectives on Accounting
                            conference, Cardiff, Wales, July.



Partington, D. (2002) 'Grounded theory', in D.
Partington (ed.), Essential Skills for Management Research. London: Sage.



Patton, M.Q. (1982) Practical
                            Evaluation. Newbury Park, CA:
                            Sage.



Patton, M.Q. (1990) Qualitative
                            Evaluation and Research Methods, 2nd
                        edn. Newbury Park, CA: Sage.



Patton, M.Q. (2002) Qualitative
                            Research and Evaluation Methods, 3rd
                        edn. Newbury Park, CA: Sage.



Pawson, R. and Tilley, N. (2001) 'Realistic
                            evaluation bloodiness', American
                            Journal of Evaluation, 22(3): 317-324.



Payne, G. and Williams, M. (2005) 'Generalization
                            in qualitative research', Sociology, 39(2): 295-314.



Payne, S.L. (2000) 'Challenges for research ethics and moral knowledge construction in the
                            applied social sciences', Journal of
                            Business Ethics, 26: 307-318.



Peräkylä,
                                A. (2004) 'Reliability and validity in research based on tapes and
                            transcripts', in D.
Silverman (ed.), Qualitative Research: Theory, Methods and
                        Practice. London: Sage.



Perry, C. (1998) 'Processes of a case study methodology for postgraduate research
                            marketing', European Journal of
                            Marketing, 32(9/10): 785-802.



Pershing, J.A. and Pershing, J.L. (2001) 'Ineffective
                            reaction evaluation', Human Resource
                            Development Quarterly, 12(1): 73-90.



Petersen, N.J. and Østergaard, S. (2003) 'Organisational photography as a research method: What, how and
                            why', Academy of Management
                            Proceedings, Seattle, 1-6 August.



Petticrew, M. and Roberts, H. (2006) Systematic Reviews in the
                            Social Sciences: A Practical Guide. Oxford: Blackwell.



Phillips, E.M. and Pugh, D.S. (2000) How to Get a PhD: A
                            Handbook for Students and Their Supervisors, 3rd edn. Buckingham: Open University
                            Press.




Pini, M. (2005) 'Girls
                            on film: Video diaries as "auto-ethnographies"',
                            Conference paper, 4th European Feminist
                            Conference, Bologna, September.



Pink, S. (2006) The Future of
                            Visual Anthropology: Engaging the Senses. New York: Routledge.



Pink, S. (2013) Doing Visual
                            Ethnography, 3rd edn. London: Sage.



Pole, C.J. (2004) 'Seeing
                            is believing?', Approaches to Visual
                            Research. Studies in Qualitative Methodology, Volume 7. Oxford: Elsevier.



Polkinghorne, D. (1983) Methodology
                            for the Human Sciences: Systems of Inquiry. Albany, NY: State University of New York.



Polonsky, M.J. (1998) 'Incorporating ethics into business students' research projects:
                            A process approach', Journal of
                            Business Ethics, 17: 1227-1241.



Popper, K.R. (1968) The Logic of
                            Scientific Discovery, 2nd edn. London: Hutchinson.



Possick, C. (2009) 'Reflexively positioning in a politically sensitive situation: Dealing
                            with the threats of researching the West Bank settler
                        experience', Qualitative Inquiry,
                            15: 859-875.



Potter, S. (2006) Doing
                            Postgraduate Research. London:
                            Sage.



Powell, R.A. and Single, H.M. (1996) 'Focus
                            groups', International Journal of
                            Quality in Health Care, 8(5): 499-504.



Procter, M. (2007) Advice on
                            Academic Writing. Available at: http://www.utoronto.ca/writing/advise.html. Accessed 9
January
2008.



Prosser, J. (2006) Researching
                            with Visual Images: Some Guidance Notes and a Glossary for
                            Beginners. Working Paper. University
                            of Leeds: Leeds.



Prosser, J. and Loxley, A. (2008) Introducing Visual
                            Methods. ESRC National Centre for Research Methods Review
                        Paper.



Puhakainen, P. and Siponen, M. (2010) 'Improving
                            employees' compliance through information systems security
                            training: An action research study', MIS Quarterly, 34(4): 757-778.



Punch, K.F. (2005) Introduction
                            to Social Research: Quantitative and Qualitative Approaches,
                            2nd edn. London: Sage.



Punch, K.F. (2006) Developing
                            Effective Research Proposals, 2nd
                        edn. London: Sage.


QAA (Quality Assurance Agency for Higher
                            Education) (2000) Code of Practice for the
                            Assurance of Academic Quality and Standards in Higher Education, Section
                            7: Programme Approval, Monitoring and Review. Gloucester: QAAHE.



Rabinovich, E. and Cheon, S. (2011) 'Expanding
                            horizons and deepening understanding via the use of secondary data
                            sources', Journal of Business
                            Logistics, 32(4): 303-316.



Rafaeli, A. and Pratt, M. (1993) 'Tailored
                            meanings: On the meaning and impact of organizational
                        dress', Academy of Management
                            Review, 18: 32-55.



Raimond, P. (1993) Management
                            Projects: Design, Research and Presentation. London: Chapman & Hall.



Ray, J.L. and Smith, A.D. (2012) 'Using
                            photographs to research organizations: Evidence, considerations, and
                            application in a field study', Organizational Research Methods, 15(2), 288-315.



Ray, N.M. and Tabor, S.W. (2003) 'Several issues
                            affect e-research validity', Marketing News, 15
September.



Reason, P. (1981) 'Methodological approaches to social science', in P.
Reason and J.
Rowan (eds), Human Inquiry. New York:
                            Wiley. pp. 43-51



Reason, P. (1994) Participating
                            in Human Inquiry. London:
                            Sage.



Reason, P. and Torbert, W.R. (2001) 'The action
                            turn: Toward a transformational social science', Concepts and Transformations, 6(1): 21-33.



Reay, D.G. (1994) Evaluating
                            Training. London: Kogan Page.



Reed-Danahay, D. (1997) Auto/Ethnography: Rewriting the Self and the Social. Oxford: Berg
                            Publishers.



Reeves, C.L. (2010) 'A difficult negotiation, fieldwork relations with
                        gatekeepers', Qualitative
                        Research, 10: 315-331.




Richards, L. (2002) 'Qualitative computing - a method revolution?',
                            International Journal of Social Research
                            Methodology, 5(3): 263-276.



Ritchie, B., Crotts, J., Zehrer, A. and Volsky, G. (2013) 'Understanding the effects of a tourism crisis: The impact of the BP oil
                            spill on regional lodging demand', Journal of Travel Research, 53(1): 12-25.



Robson, C. (2002) Real World
                            Research, 2nd edn. Oxford: Blackwell.



Rock, P. (2001) 'Symbolic interactionism and ethnography', in P.
Atkinson, A.
Coffey, S.
Delmont, J.
Lofland and L.
Lofland (eds), Handbook of Ethnography. London: Sage.



Rojon, C., McDowall, A. and Saunders, M.N.K.
                            (2011) 'On the experience of conducting a systematic
                            review in industrial, work and organizational psychology: Yes it is
                            worthwhile', Journal of Personnel
                            Psychology, 10 (3): 133-138.



Roldan, A.A. (2002) 'Writing ethnography. Malinowski's fieldnotes on
                        Baloma', Social Anthropology,
                            10(3): 377-393.



Rorty, R. (1998) Truth and
                            Progress. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.



Roscoe, J.T. (1975) Fundamental
                            Research Statistics for the Behavioural Sciences, 2nd edn. New
                            York: Holt Rinehart &
                            Winston.



Rossman, E.B. and Wilson, B.L. (1985) 'Combining
                            quantitative and qualitative methods in a single large-scale evaluation
                            study', Evaluation Review,
                            9(5): 627-643.



Roulston, K. (2010) Reflective
                            Interviewing: A Guide to Theory and Practice. London: Sage.



Rowe, C. (1995) 'Incorporating competence into the long-term evaluation of training
                            development', Industrial and
                            Commercial Training, 27(2): 3-9.



Rowley, J. (2012) 'Conducting research interviews', Management Research Review, 35:
                            260-271.



Rubin, H.J. and Rubin, I. (2005) Qualitative Interviewing: The
                            Art of Hearing Data, 2nd edn. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.



Ruby, J. (2007) 'Digital Oak Park: An experiment', Critical Arts, 2(2): 321-332.



Rudestam, K.E. and Newton, R.R. (2007) Surviving your
                            Dissertation: A Comprehensive Guide to Content and Process, 3rd edn. Newbury
                            Park, CA: Sage.



Rugg, G. and Petre, M. (2004) The Unwritten Rules of PhD
                            Research. Buckingham: Open University Press.



Ryan, L. and Golden, A. (2006) '"Tick
                            the Box Please": A reflexive approach to doing quantitative
                            social research', Sociology,
                            40(6): 1191-1200.



Said, E. (1989) 'Representing the colonised: Anthropology's
                        interlocutors', Critical Inquiry,
                            15: 205-225.



Salvi, R., Turnbull, J. and Pontesilli, A.
                            (2007) 'The English of companies on-line: National identity and
                            global culture', in R.
Salvi and J.
Bamford (eds), Business Discourse: Language at Work. Rome: Aracne.



Samra-Fredericks, D. (2004) 'Conversational analysis', in G.
Symon and C.
Cassell (eds), Qualitative Methods and Analysis in Organisational Research.
                            London: Sage.



Sandelowski, M. (1995) 'Sample size in qualitative research', Research in Nursing & Health, 18: 179-183.



Sandelowski, M. (2000) 'Combining qualitative and quantitative sampling, data collection, and
                            analysis techniques in mixed-methods studies', Research in Nursing & Health, 23: 246-255.



Sapsford, R. (2006) Survey
                            Research, 2nd edn. London: Sage.



Sarasvathy, S.D. (2004) 'The questions we ask and the questions we care about: Reformulating
                            some problems in entrepreneurship research', Journal of Business Venturing, 19(5): 707-717.



Saunders, M.N.K. and Rojon, C. (2011) 'On the
                            attributes of a critical literature review', Coaching: An International Journal of Theory, Research
                            and Practice, 4(2): 156-162.



Saunders, M.N.K., Lewis, P. and Thornhill, A. (2012) Research Methods for Business Students, 6th edn. London: Prentice Hall.



Sayre, S. (2001) Qualitative
                            Methods for Marketplace Research. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.



Scheibelhofer, E. (2008) 'Combining narration-based interviews with topical interviews:
                            Methodological reflections on research practices', International Journal of Social Research
                            Methodology, 11(5): 403-416.




Schembri, S. (2008) 'Reframing brand experience: The experiential meaning of
                            Harley-Davidson', Journal of Business
                            Research, 62: 1299-1310.



Schembri, S. and Boyle, M.V. (2013) 'Visual
                            ethnography: Achieving rigorous and authentic
                        interpretations', Journal of Business
                            Research, 66: 1251-1254.



Scherer, M.J. and Lane, J.P. (1997) 'Assessing
                            consumer profiles of "ideal" assistive technologies in ten
                            categories: An integration of quantitative and qualitative
                            methods', Disability &
                            Rehabilitation: An International Multidisciplinary Journal, 19: 528-535.



Schindler, R.M. (1992) 'The real lesson of new coke: The value of focus groups for predicting
                            the effects of social influence', Marketing Research: A Magazine of Management and Applications,
                            4: 22-27.



Schneider, J.A. (2006a) 'Using multimethods ethnography to promote quality
                            service and understand interactions among organizations',
                            Nonprofit Management & Leadership,
                            16(4): 411-427.



Schneider, J.L. (2006b) 'Professional codes of ethics: Their role and
                            implications for international research', Journal of Contemporary Criminal Justice, 22(2): 173-192.



Schofield, J.W. (2000) 'Increasing the generalisability of qualitative research',
                        in R.
Gomm, M.
Hammersley and P.
Foster (eds), Case Study Method: Key Issues, Key Texts. London: Sage.



Schratz, M. (1996) 'Collaborative, self-critical and reciprocal inquiry through memory
                            work', in O.
Zuber-Skerritt (ed.), New Directions in Action Research. London: Falmer
                            Press.



Schroeder, J.E. (2005) 'The artist and the brand', Journal
                            of Marketing, 39: 1291-1305.



Schroeder, J.E. (2006) 'Critical visual analysis', in R.W.
Belk (ed.), Handbook of Qualitative Research Methods in Marketing. Cheltenham: Edward Elgar. pp. 303-321.



Schulze, S. (2007) 'The usefulness of reflexive photography for qualitative research: A
                            case study in higher education', South African Journal of Higher Education, 21(5): 536-553.



Schumann, H. and Presser, S. (1981) Questions and Answers in
                            Attitude Surveys. New York:
                            Academic Press.



Schumpeter, J.A. (1950) Capitalism,
                            Socialism, and Democracy, 3rd edn.
                            New York: Harper & Row.



Schutt, R.K. (2007) The Blackwell
                            Encyclopaedia of Sociology, Volume III, G.
Ritzer (ed.). Oxford: Blackwell.



Schwartz, D. (1989) 'Visual ethnography: Using photography in qualitative
                        research', Qualitative Sociology,
                            2(2): 119-154.



Scott, J. (1990) A Matter of
                            Record. Cambridge: Polity.



Scriven, M. (1967) 'The
                            methodology of evaluation', in R.W.
Tyler, R.M.
Gagne and M.
Scriven (eds), Perspectives of Curriculum Evaluation. Chicago, IL: Rand McNally.



Scriven, M. (1973) 'Goal
                            free evaluation', in E.R.
House (ed.), School Evaluation. Berkeley,
                            CA: McCutchan.



Seal, D.W., Bogart, L.M. and Ehrhardt, A.A.
                            (1998) 'Small group dynamics: The utility of focus group
                            discussions as a research method', Group Dynamics: Theory, Research and Practice, 2(4): 253-266.



Seale, C. (1999) The Quality of
                            Qualitative Research. London:
                            Sage.



Seidman, I. (2013) Interviewing
                            as Qualitative Research: A Guide for Researchers in Education and the
                            Social Sciences, 4th edn. New York: Teachers College Press.



Sekaran, U. and Bougie, R. (2013) Research Methods for
                            Business, 6th edn. Chichester: John Wiley & Sons Ltd.



Shaffir, W. (1999) 'Doing ethnography: Reflections on finding your way',
                            Journal of Contemporary Ethnography, 28: 676-686.



Shin, W. and Huh, J. (2009) 'Multinational
                            corporate website strategies and influencing factors: A comparison of US
                            and Korean corporate websites', Journal of Marketing Communication, 15: 287-310.



Short, D.C. (2006) 'Closing the gap between research and practice in HRD',
                            Human Resource Development Quarterly, 17(3): 343-350.




Short, J.F. and Hughes, L.A. (2009) 'Urban
                            ethnography and research integrity: Empirical and theoretical
                            dimensions', Ethnography,
                            10: 397-415.



Shulman, L.S. (1999) 'Professing educational scholarship', in E.C.
Lagemann and L.S.
Shulman (eds), Issues in Educational Research: Problems and Possibilities.
                            San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass. pp. 159-165.



Silverman, D. (2000) Doing
                            Qualitative Research: A Practical Handbook. London: Sage.



Sixsmith, J. and Murray, C.D. (2001) 'Ethical issues
                            in the documentary data analysis of internet posts and
                        archives', Qualitative Health
                            Research, 11(3): 423-432.



Skrtic, T.M. (1985) 'Doing
                            naturalistic research into educational organizations', in
                            Y.S.
Lincoln (ed.), Organizational Theory and Inquiry. Newbury Park, CA: Sage.



Slack, F. and Rowley, J. (2001) 'Observation:
                            Perspectives on research methodologies for leisure
                        managers', Management Research
                            News, 24(1/2): 35-42.



Sleeman, P. (2002) 'Archives and statistics', in N.
Dochartaigh (ed.), The Internet Research Handbook: A Practical Guide for
                            Students and Researchers in the Social Sciences. London: Sage.



Smith, D. E. (1987) The Everyday
                            World as Problematic: A Feminist Sociology. Toronto: University of Toronto Press.



Smith, E. (2006) Using
                            Secondary Data in Educational and Social Research. Maidenhead: Open University Press.



Smith, M. (1995) 'Ethics in focus groups: A few concerns', Qualitative Health Research, 5: 478-486.



Snape, D. and Spencer, L. (2003) 'The foundations of
                            qualitative research', in J.
Ritchie and J.
Lewis (eds), Qualitative Research Practice.London: Sage.



Springwood, C.F. and King, C.R. (2001) 'Unsettling
                            engagements: On the ends of rapport in critical
                        ethnography', Qualitative Inquiry,
                            7(1): 403-417.



Stacey, J. (1988) 'Can there be a feminist ethnography?', Women's Studies International Forum, 11(1): 21-27.



Stake, R.E. (1994) The Art of
                            Case Study Research. Thousand Oaks,
                            CA: Sage.



Stake, R.E. (2000) 'The
                            case study method in social inquiry', in R.
Gomm, M.
Hammersley and P.
Foster (eds), Case Study Method: Key Issues, Key Texts. London: Sage.



Stake, R.E. (2005) Multiple Case
                            Study Analysis. New York:
                            The Guilford Press.



Stanley, L. and Wise, S. (1993) Breaking Out Again: Feminist
                            Ontology and Epistemology. London: Routledge.



Stewart, D.W., Shamdasani, P.N. and Rook, D.W. (2007) Focus Groups: Theory and Practice, 2nd edn. Thousand Oaks, CA:
                            Sage.



Stiles, D.R. (2011) 'Disorganization, disidentification and ideological fragmentation:
                            Verbal and pictorial evidence from a British business
                        school', Culture and Organization,
                            17(1): 5-30.



Stoler, A. (2010) 'Archives and the art of governance', Revistacolombiana de antropologia, 46(2): 465-496.



Strauss, A.L. (1987) Qualitative
                            Analysis for Social Scientists. New
                            York: Cambridge University
                            Press.



Strauss, A.L. and Corbin, J. (1990) Basics of Qualitative
                            Research. Thousand Oaks, CA:
                            Sage.



Strauss, A.L. and Corbin, J. (1994) 'Grounded theory
                            methodology: An overview', in N.K.
Denzin and Y.S.
Lincoln (eds), Handbook of Qualitative Research. London: Sage.



Strauss, A.L. and Corbin, J. (1998) Basics of Qualitative
                            Research, 2nd edn. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.



Strickland, C.J. (1999) 'Conducting focus groups cross-culturally: Experiences with Pacific
                            Northwest Indian people', Public
                            Health Nursing, 16: 190-197.



Stringer, E.T. (2013) Action
                            Research, 4th edn. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.



Suchman, L. (1987) Plans and
                            Situated Actions. Cambridge:
                            Cambridge University Press.



Sudman, S. (1998) 'Survey research and ethics', Advances in Consumer Research, 25:
                            69-71.



Sundin, O. and Johannisson, J. (2006) 'Pragmatism,
                            neo-pragmatism and sociocultural theory: Communicative participation as
                            a perspective in LIS', Journal of
                            Documentation, 61(1): 23-43.




Swanson, R.A. (2001) 'Human resource development and its underlying theory',
                            Human Resource Development International,
                            4(3:) 299-312.



Szabo, V. and Strang, V.R. (1997) 'Secondary
                            analysis of qualitative data', Advances in Nursing Science, 20(2): 66-74.



Tabachnick, B.G. and Fidell, L.S. (2001) Using Multivariate
                            Statistics, 4th edn. New York: Harper Collins.



Taken Smith, K. and Alexander, J.J. (2013) 'Which
                            CSR-related headings do Fortune 500 companies use on their
                            websites?', Business Communication
                            Quarterly, 76(2): 155-171.



Tang, L., Gallagher, C.C. and Bie, B. (2015) 'Corporate social responsibility communication
                            through corporate websites: A comparison of leading corporations in the
                            United States and China', International Journal of Business Communication, 52(2): 205-227.



Tashakkori, A. and Creswell, J.W. (2007) 'Editorial:
                            The new era of mixed methods', Journal of Mixed Methods Research, 1: 3-7.



Tashakkori, A. and Teddlie, C. (eds) (2009) Handbook of Mixed Methods
                            in Social and Behavioral Research, 3rd edn. Thousand Oaks, CA:
                            Sage.



Taylor, J.E., Dossick, C.S. and Garvin, M. (2011) 'Meeting the burden of proof with case-study
                            research', Journal of Construction
                            Engineering and Management, 137(4): 303-311.



Teddlie, C. and Yu, F. (2007) 'Mixed methods
                            sampling: A typology with examples', Journal of Mixed Methods Research, 1(1): 77-100.



Teitelbaum, H. (1998) How to Write a
                            Thesis, 4th edn. New York: Macmillan General Reference.



Tesch, R. (1994) 'The
                            contribution of a qualitative method: Phenomenological
                        research', in M.
Langenbach, C.
Vaughn and L.
Aagaard (eds), An Introduction to Educational Research. Needham Heights, MA: Allyn and Bacon.



Thomas, G. (2013) How to Do your
                            Research Project: A Guide for Students of Education and Applied Social
                            Sciences, 2nd edn. London: Sage.



Thompson, C. (1999) 'Qualitative research into nurse decision making: Factors for
                            consideration in theoretical sampling', Qualitative Health Research, 9(6): 815-828.



Thorne, S. (1994) 'Secondary analysis in qualitative research: Issues and
                            implications', in J.M.
Morse (ed.), Critical Issues in Qualitative Research Methods. London: Sage.



Thorne, S. (1998) 'Ethical and representational issues in qualitative secondary
                            analysis', Qualitative Health
                            Research, 8: 547-555.



Tickle, L. (2001) 'Opening windows, closing doors: Ethical dilemmas in educational action
                            research', Journal of Philosophy of
                            Education, 35(3): 345-359.



Tight, M. (2010) 'The curious case of case study: A viewpoint', International Journal of Research Methodology,
                            13(4): 329-339.



Titmuss, R. (1970) The Gift
                            Relationship: From Human Blood to Social Policy. London: Allen
                            & Unwin.



Trost, J.E. (1986) 'Statistically nonrepresentative stratified sampling: A sampling
                            technique for qualitative studies', Qualitative Sociology, 9(1): 54-57.



Turk, C. and Kirkman, J. (1989) Effective Writing: Improving
                            Scientific, Technical and Business Communication, 2nd edn. London: E. & F.N.
                            Spon.



Van Maanen, J. (1988) Tales from the
                            Field: On Writing Ethnography. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago
                            Press.



Vaucher, S., Moulart, A., Sharaoui, H. and
                            Habra, N. (2013) 'Automated evaluation of website navigability: An empirical validation
                            of multilevel quality models', Journal of Software Evolution and Processes, 25: 815-839.



Vazquez-Montilla, E., Reyes-Blanes, M.E., Hyun, E. and Brovelli, E. (2000) 'Practices for culturally responsive interviews and research with
                            Hispanic families', Multicultural
                            Perspective, 2(3): 3-7.



Vigderhous, G. (1981) 'Scheduling telephone interviews: A study of seasonal
                        patterns', Public Opinion
                            Quarterly, 45: 250-259.



Vince, R. and Broussine, M. (1996) 'Paradox,
                            defence and attachment: Accessing and working with emotions and
                            relations underlying organizational change', Organization Studies, 17(1): 1-21.




Vince, R. and Warren, S. (2012) 'Participatory visual
                            methods', in C.
Cassell and G.
Symon (eds), The Practice of Qualitative Organizational Research: Core Methods and
                            Current Challenges. London:
                            Sage.



Wainwright, G. (1990) Report
                            Writing, 2nd edn. Shrewsbury: Management Update.



Wallerstein, N. (1999) 'Power between evaluator and community: Research relationships within
                            New Mexico's healthier communities', Social Science & Medicine, 49(1): 39-53.



Warr, P., Bird, M. and Rackman, N. (1970) Evaluation of Management Training. Aldershot: Gower.



Warr, P., Cook, J. and Wall, T. (1979) 'Scales for measurement of some work attitudes and
                            aspects of psychological wellbeing', Journal of Occupational Psychology, 52: 129-148.



Warren, S. (2002) 'Show me how it feels to work here: Using photography to research
                            organizational aesthetics', Ephemera, 2: 224-245.



Warren, S. (2008) 'Empirical challenges in organizational aesthetics research: Towards a
                            sensual methodology', Organization
                            Studies, 29(4): 559-580.



Warren, S. (2009) 'Visual
                            methods in organizational research', in D.A.
Buchanan and A.
Bryman (eds), Handbook of Organizational Research Methods. London: Sage. pp. 566-582.



Warren, S. (2012) 'Having an eye for it: Aesthetics, ethnography and the
                        senses', Journal of Organizational
                            Ethnography, 1(1): 107-118.



Waterman, H. (1998) 'Embracing ambiguities and valuing ourselves: Issues of validity in
                            action research', Journal of Advanced
                            Nursing, 28(1): 101-105.



Watson, T.J. (2011) 'Ethnography, reality, and truth: The vital need for studies of
                            "How Things Work" in organizations and
                        management', Journal of Management
                            Studies, 48(1): 202-217.



Webb, C. (1993) 'Feminist research: Definitions, methodology, methods and
                            evaluation', Journal of Advanced
                            Nursing, 18: 416-423.



Webb, C. and Kevern, J. (2001) 'Focus groups as
                            a research method: A critique of some aspects of their use in nursing
                            research', Journal of Advanced
                            Nursing, 33(6): 798-805.



Webb, E.J., Campbell, D.T., Schwartz, R.D. and
                            Sechrest, L. (2000) Unobtrusive
                            Measures: Nonreactive Research in the Social Sciences, revised edn. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.



Weber, R. (2003) 'The reflexive researcher', MIS
                            Quarterly, 27(4): v-xiv.



Weiss, C.H. (1984) 'Increasing the likelihood of influencing decisions', in
                            L.
Rutman (ed.), Evaluation Research Methods: A Basic Guide, 2nd edn. Newbury
                            Park, CA: Sage.



Welch, C. (2000) 'The archaeology of business networks: The use of archival records in
                            case study research', Journal of
                            Strategic Marketing, 8: 197-208.



Wengraf, T. (2001) Qualitative
                            Research Interviewing: Biographic Narrative and Semi-Structured
                            Methods. London: Sage.



Westmarland, L. (2001) 'Blowing the whistle on police violence', British Journal of Criminology, 41: 523-535.



White, J.H. (1997) From Research
                            to Printout: Creating Effective Technical Documents. New York: ASME
                            Press.



Whittemore, R., Chase, S.K. and Mandle, C.L. (2001) 'Validity in qualitative research',
                            Qualitative Health Research, 11(4): 522-537.



Whyte, W.F. (1943) Street Corner
                            Society. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.



Whyte, W.F. (1991) 'Comparing PAR and action science', in W.F.
Whyte (ed.), Participatory Action Research. Newbury Park, CA: Sage.



Wield, D. (2002) 'Planning and organising a research project', in S.
Potter (ed.), Doing Postgraduate Research. London: Sage.



Williams, A. (1993) 'Diversity and agreement in feminist ethnography', Sociology, 27(4): 575-589.



Williams, D. (2002) 'Research proposals', in T.
Greenfield (ed.), Research Methods: Guidance for Postgraduates.
                            London: Arnold.



Williams, M. and May, T. (1996) Introduction to the Philosophy
                            of Social Research. London:
                            Routledge.



Willis, P. and Trondman, M. (2000) 'Manifesto for
                            ethnography', Ethnography,
                            1(1): 5-16.




Wilson, J. (2014) Essentials of
                            Business Research: A Guide to Doing Your Research Project, 2nd edn. London: Sage.



Wilson, K. and Roe, B. (1998) 'Interviewing
                            older people by telephone following initial contact by postal
                            survey', Journal of Advanced
                            Nursing, 27: 575-581.



Winkler, A.C. and McCuen, J.R. (2007) Writing the Research
                            Paper: A Handbook, 7th edn. Boston, MA: Heinle.



Winslow, W.W., Honein, G. and Elzubeir, M.A.
                            (2002) 'Seeking Emirati women's voices: The use of
                            focus groups with an Arab population', Qualitative Health Research, 12: 566-575.



Winter, R. (1996) 'Some
                            principles and procedures for the conduct of action
                        research', in O.
Zuber-Skerritt (ed.), New Directions in Action Research. London: Falmer
                            Press.



Wolcott, H.F. (1994) Transforming
                            Qualitative Data: Description, Analysis and Interpretation. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.



Yin, R.K. (2006) 'Mixed methods research: Are the methods genuinely integrated or merely
                            parallel?', Research in the
                            Schools,13(1): 41-47.



Yin, R.K. (2009) Case Study
                            Research: Design and Methods, 4th
                        edn. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.



Yin, R.K. (2012) Applications
                            of Case Study Research, 3rd edn.
                            Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.



Zimmer, M. (2010) 'But
                            the data is already public: On the ethics of research in
                        Facebook', Ethics and Information
                            Technology, 12(4): 313-325. Available at: http://www.sfu.ca/~palys/Zimmer-2010-EthicsOfResearchFromFacebook.pdf.
                        Accessed 14
April, 2016.



Zimmerman, R., Restrepo, C.E., Culpen, A., Remington, W.E., Kling, A., Portelli, I. and
                            Foltin, G.L. (2010) 'Risk communication for catastrophic events: Results from focus
                            groups', Journal of Risk
                            Research, 13(7): 913-935.



Zuboff, R. (1988) In the Age of
                            the Smart Machine: The Future of Work and Power. New York: Basic Books.












Index
Figures, Tables and Images are indicated by page numbers printed in bold.

abstracts
725,
                                728, 732
academic articles:
for literature reviews
49, 106, 563reviews for assessment
763-765, 764
types
107

writing:
article structure
732-734
preparing for vivas
760
selecting the journal
729, 730-731submission
731-732

see also

                                            writing styles
                                        

access
4, 44-45, 351, 460
and critical ethnography
475for female researchers
460and sponsorship
45-46action research
3, 33, 35, 61, 336-356
action science
338-339case study
33and collaboration for change
338collaborative sources
340and cooperative inquiry
339ethics
351-352external action research
338generalizability
350, 353limitations
353-354memory work
348methods:
audio
348case study: non-compliance with
                                                information systems security
349collaboration
348diaries
347-348photographs
248video
348participatory action research (PAR)
26, 176, 337, 338, 339process
340-346
action documents
342-343action research model
342concept mapping
344cyclical process
341focus
341, 342,
                                                343gathering evidence
343-344impact analysis
344-345impact evaluation
345-346planning
341-343steering groups
340, 341and value system of researcher
343researcher and participant
                                        relationship
475sectors and research projects
339theory-practice gap
339-340validation
350action science
338-339
management/societal action science
339
almanacs
563

analytic generalization
278

analytic reporting
294
analytical surveys
32-33
Anderson, T. and Kanuka, H.
117
anonymity
78, 469anthropology
458,
                                474archives
445-446, 514, 559
see also
                                    official statistics; organizational documents;
                                        personal documents; political recordsArksey, H. and Knight, P.
364,
                                400, 402, 414, 422assessment
321,
                                763-766
critical article reviews
763-765, 764self and peer-assessment
765-766Association of Internet Researchers
92, 582audio
348,
                                524auto-ethnography
458,
                                465, 471
Ayob, N. et al
225




Bailey, C.A.
444
Ballantine, J. et al
328,
                                329-330, 331Bartunek, J.M. and Myeong-Gu, S.
212,
                                213Bazeley, P. and Jackson, K.
679,
                                690, 691, 692Bell, E.
536,
                                544-545Bergami, M. and Bagozzi, R.P.
381,
                                382
bias:
of interviewers
402-403
in questions
364
of researchers
171, 472, 477
of respondents
163

in surveys
263


bibliographies
63

big topics
51

biographical research
176
Bishop, L.
568-569Black, T.
157,
                                616, 617, 640
Blaxter: Mothers and Daughters
568

Blumberg, B. et al
734

Boote, D.N. and Beile, P.
126
Boote, J. and Matthews, A.
449-450
Bradbury-Jones, C. et al
509
Bramley, P. and Kitson, B.
306,
                                310
Brewer, J.D.
560
Briner, R.B. and Walshe, N.D.
127,
                                128, 129
British Household Panel Survey
566
British Psychological Society
80-81
British Sociological Association
449
Bryman, A. and Bell, E.
89, 690,
                                693Burgess, R.G.
432,
                                433


Campbell, C.P.
319,
                                320, 327, 328Campbell, D.T. and Stanley, J.C.
149,
                                150
Cannell, C.F.
370
case study research
8, 61, 174,
                                218, 274-300, 656
analysis:
explanation building
291-292pattern matching
290-1
case study: team
                                                  working
291programme logic models
293time-series analysis
292-293case study: Human resource functions in
                                        Indian hospitals
280case study: Japanese transplant companies in
                                        the UK
297-298case study databases
280-281causality
287, 288conclusions
281criticism of
276descriptive frameworks
289generalizability
278, 287-288hypotheses and questions
278inductive/deductive approaches
276-278, 277literature review
278multiple sources of evidence
279process of case study construction
281protocols
278-279, 289reasons for use
275-276reliability
288-289reports
281, 282, 293-299
audience
293-294types
294-296,
                                                  295on the Web
294research framework
287selecting cases
278sources of data
285team work
286, 287theoretical propositions
289theoretical stance
278types
282
multiple case research
277, 279,
                                                282, 284single case
283units of analysis
279validity
286-288causality
274,
                                288
census
245
Chicago School
458,
                                468, 473closed-circuit television (CCTV)
519-520coding
371,
                                412, 612-613
computer assisted
712with NVivo
676-678process
689, 690-693, 691for themes
691
collaborative research
171
Collins, K.M.T. et al
233,
                                234
ComAbstracts
110
communities, concept of
464-465computer assisted qualitative data software
                                (CAQDAS)
711,
                                712-713
computer use monitoring
519

concept mapping

344

conference papers
106,
                                111confidentiality
78, 90, 268,
                                352
confounding variables
160
construct theory
321-322constructivism
22, 25, 35, 201,
                                458content analysis
696-697
criteria of selection
696hypothesis testing
697steps in analysis
696
converging evidence
279
conversational analysis
709,
                                711
copyright
736
Cornelsen, L. et al
572-573
corporate social responsibility
580

correlative questions
142

covert observation:

and consent
541
and ethics
80, 81, 82, 190, 448
in ethnography
174
for evaluations
317-318, 324
Creswell, J.W.
121-122critical article reviews
763-765, 764critical ethnography
474-475
critical incidents
323

critical inquiry
28

critical realism
27
cross sectional research
35, 36
Crotty, M.
25
cultural studies
176-177Czaja, R. and Blair, J.
249,
                                250


data collection instruments
62-63
Data Protection Act (1998)
82
data saturation
184,
                                239, 500-501De Vaus, D.A.
246,
                                386deception avoidance
83-85deductive reasoning
18-19, 35
combined with inductive reasoning
20and research questions
180
definition of business research
3

Denzin, N.K.
193

descriptive questions
141

descriptive statistics:
analysing data
620-623
central tendency
621-622frequency distribution
620-621measures of dispersion
622normal distribution
622, 623skewed distributions
622standard deviation
622
presenting data:

bar chart

616


charts and graphs for frequency
                                                data

616


frequency table for interval
                                                data

618


histogram for interval data

618

interval and ratio data -
                                                comparing groups
618-619interval and ratio data -
                                                single groups
616-618
nominal and ordinal data
616
nominal data - comparing
                                                groups
618, 619
pie chart

617


table: age profile of e-commerce
                                                development company

617

two variables for a single
                                                group
619-620


descriptive studies
37
developmental designs
153-4Dewey, John
25, 29, 702
Dey, I.
695

Diamantopoulos, A. and Schlegelmilch, B.B.
609
dilemmas
140-141Dillman, D.A.
265,
                                377, 378, 384, 385
discourse analysis
709

discussion section in articles
745

documents: types
517



Easterby-Smith, M. et al
26, 312,
                                313, 317EBSCO
105,
                                108, 130, 577Economic and Social Data Service (ESDA)
566,
                                567
Eisenhardt, K.M.
285
Ekinci, Y. and Riley, M.
366-367Elger, A. and Smith, C.
297-298Emerson, R.M. et al
465,
                                466
empirical observation
19

English Longitudinal Study of Ageing
566
epistemology
21-22, 35
Erikson, K.T.
80
ethics
72-97
access
351anonymity
78, 469avoiding harm
77-78, 80, 89-90case study: dilemmas
94-95case study: Milgram experiment
75checklist of issues
93-94codes of practice
73-77, 89
Academy of Management
81British Psychological Society
80-81British Sociological
                                                Association
449Declaration of Helsinki
74Nuremburg Code
73-74Social Research Association
81confidentiality
78, 90, 352constraints for moral dialogue
328-329
case study: ethics at the Stock
                                                Exchange
329critical ethnography:
case study: challenges of abiding by
                                                ethical codes
475-476deception
83-85deontological perspective
72ethical frameworks
89, 90ethics committees
76, 84, 85getting approval
84-87
case study: field research
87from sponsors and participants
87hard to reach populations
235-236informed consent
79-81, 88-9, 190, 421-422,
                                        469-470and Internet
90-92issues involving ethical risk
77justice
78monitoring technology
523-525normative ethics
72and observation
80, 81privacy
82-83, 190procedural ethics
89producing benefits for participants
78in qualitative research
190
checklist of commitments
190relational ethics
89and reports/dissertations
93and research in researcher's
                                        organization
92-93and research proposals
63and selection of research topics
52situational ethics
89teleological approach
73universalistic and contingent/relativistic
                                        views
73vulnerable groups
230, 235ethnography
8, 26, 35, 61, 174,
                                456-481
aims
457case study: challenges
470-471critical ethnography
474-476
case study: challenges of abiding by
                                                ethical codes
475-476diaries
466-467
case study: ethnographic diary
466-467digital media
468-469ethics
469-471feminist ethnography
29, 472-473, 479
case study: identifying gendered
                                                norms
473-474field notes
432, 457, 465-466fieldwork
459-465
access
460case study: getting too close
463-464field as construction
464-465informed consent
460-461insider/outsider status
462invisibility
461leaving the field
462-463positioning
462rapport
461sampling
459-460settings
459-460generalizability
477-478informed consent
80interviews
467-468origins
457-458participant observation
465-466and postmodernism
448reliability
477reports
478-479researcher:
effects of
472, 477as participant
457sampling
218validity
477
ethnomethodology
175

European Society for Opinion and Market Research
                                (ESOMAR)
524
evaluations
8, 304-333
acceptance of
328administration
309and assessment
321case study: force-field analysis
308, 309context
309cost-benefit of training
306data collection:
assessment tests
321critical incidents
323learning logs
323questionnaires
319-320repertory grids
321-322data sources:
accumulated records
318informants
317observations
317-318decision-making evaluation
314-315ethics
328-331, 330experimental
313formative and summative
310goal-based
314goal-free
316illuminative
315-316impact analysis
307-308levels
305-307, 308objectivity
325outcomes
325output
305processes
309-310professional standards: validation and
                                        accreditation
315reliability
325report
325-327responsive
316schools of thought
312-13systems evaluation
313-314,
                                        324Total Quality Management (TQM)
309, 310types
311utilization focused
316validity
323-324
case study
324
experimental groups
147
experimental research
30-31, 62, 138-146, 275
case study
31control groups
149design examples:
faulty designs
149-151sound designs
151-154hypotheses
144, 146literature reviews
140planning and operation stages
139, 164quasi-experimental research
30-31, 62, 147-149
case study
148-149differences from experimental
                                                research
147, 148when to use
147-148report
146research questions
140-143variables
144-146
explanatory studies
37

exploratory studies
37

exploring data
690



Facebook
114,
                                575
factorial designs

154

feminism
28-29
and narrative analysis
176feminist ethnography
29, 472-473
field notes
187

researcher's feelings
465
revision and editing
465-466
types
465


Fink, A.
116
Flanders, N.A.
437-438
Flick, U.
284
focus groups
8-9, 227, 258, 415-416, 484-511
case study: getting a blend of professionals
                                        together
499-500case study: influence of social
                                        interaction
507-508confidentiality
487, 509for constructing a questionnaire
365data analysis
499design:
programme or product
                                                development
501programme or product
                                                evaluation
502-504
broad spectrum design
503double-layer design
503multiple-category
                                                  design
502single-category design
502difficult behaviours
496epistemological positions:
constructionism and realism
506constructivism
505, 506interpretivism
505realism
505-506ethics
509generalizability
487, 507ground rules
490group diversity
489group homogeneity/heterogeneity
506group interaction
506group size
489groups composition
505, 506international audiences
504limitations of focus groups
486-487location
492moderating:
appointment of moderators
490, 497approaches
490-491case study: getting a group to
                                                focus
496-497conducting the group
495-497control of group
486-487,
                                                490, 491listening
497rapport with participants
495observers
492organizing groups
487-488origins of focus groups
484and phenomenology
508-509questions
493-495
'funnel'
                                                approach
493-494number
493piloting
494, 495rapporteurs
491-492recording:
audio
498-499field notes
491-492,
                                                498memory
498recruiting participants
487, 489-490
drop-out
489-490research problem/question
488sampling
489, 505seating arrangement
492-3sensitive issues
504strengths and weaknesses of focus
                                        groups
487uses of focus groups
484-486focus of research
6, 105
Freire, P.
176




Gantt charts
53

Garfinkel, Harold
175

Gatti, M.C.
579

gender studies
177
generalizability
6, 184,
                                191, 192-193, 278
of action research
350case study: limits of generalization
193'naturalistic
                                        generalization'
192generating ideas for research
48-50, 68
brainstorming
49-50discussion
49literature search
49notebook of ideas
50past projects
49, 50relevance trees
50strengths and weaknesses
48SWOT analysis (Strengths, Weaknesses,
                                        Opportunities, Threats)
50techniques
48
generativity
102
Glaser, B.G.
194,
                                707Glaser, B.G. and Strauss, A.
176,
                                185, 230, 464, 708

Global Compact International Yearbook

563

Goffman, E.: Asylums
458

Google Scholar
109

graffiti
515
Greene, J.C. et al
206,
                                207grey literature
111,
                                115grounded theory
26, 35, 61, 123,
                                172, 176, 698, 699-708
and action research
708and case study research
708categories
702coding:
axial coding
702-704, 703constant comparisons
700open coding
700-2, 701, 706process
699selective coding
704-705, 705conceptual density
706concluding research
708criticism of
191and ethnography
708layers of meaning
699outcomes and consequences of original causal
                                        conditions
707process
706story
704, 705theoretical sampling
230, 704theoretical sensitivity
707-708validating relationships against data
706



Habermas, J.
328
Halcomb, E.J. et al
487,
                                489, 490, 492-493
Hammersley, M. and Atkinson, P.
456
hard to reach populations
235-236Hardless, C. et al
353-354
Harrigan, J.I. et al
212
Hart, C.
104,
                                107, 118Harvard-based Facebook research
581-582Hedrick, T.E. et al
142,
                                147Helgeson, J.G. et al
266,
                                267hermeneutics
27-28heuristic inquiry
33-34, 35, 61
Higher Education and Research Opportunities
                                (HERO)
735

Hoepfl, M.C.
195

Hofferth, S.L.
569
Hollebeek, L.
416-417Holliday, A.
173,
                                182Homburg, F. and Bui Hong, T.M.
129-131
Hossain, C.S.
236
Household Allocative Systems Project (HASP)
210-211Hudson, J.M. and Bruckman, A.
90-91, 92hypotheses
18-19, 20, 30, 59, 60
accepting or rejecting
146constructing
144and research questions
59, 60, 140, 144
hypothesis testing:

areas of acceptance or rejection

625

associations between variables
635-651
continuous dependent variable and
                                                independent variable
644-651correlation analysis
638-40, 639numerical variables
641-644summary of tests
635two nominal variables
635-638two ordinal variables
640-641chi-squared distribution
627-628
in content analysis
697

contingency table

627


errors

624

formulation
623-624
goodness-of-fit
627

in grounded theory
706
Mann-Whitney U test
632, 633, 635nominal data - one sample
627-628nominal groups and quantifiable data
                                        (normally distributed)
629-635
nominal groups and quantifiable data (not
                                        normally distributed):

example: personal grooming
                                                survey
633


null hypotheses
624

one-tailed test
625

Pearson product-moment correlation
641
regression analysis
644-646
linear regression scatterplot
645multicollinearity
646selection of tests
625-626
Spearman's rho
640

t-test
629
Type I and II errors
624, 625
Wilcoxon signed-ranks test
629





ideographic research
202

impact of project
345

impact questions
142

indicators
19
inductive reasoning
19, 20, 35
combined with deductive reasoning
20and research questions
180
informational redundancy
239

informed consent:
covert observation
80, 541in ethnography
469-470forms
88-9, 422
gaining consent
80
Internet research
90-91, 92, 521interviews
80, 421-422
organizations and individuals
79
right to withdraw
82, 352and secondary data
581-582
surveys
268
in visual research
548-549
vulnerable groups
79

Institutional Review Boards (IRBs)
89, 190,
                                230, 235, 470
intellectual property (IP)
736

inter/intra-judge reliability
163

internal reliability
163


International Encyclopaedia of the Social and Behavioural
                                    Sciences

111


International Journal of Human Resource Management

730

Internet:
in action research
347-348
archives
517

archives of government business
                                        information
518

case study reports
294
chat rooms
90-91
and children
91
company websites/social media
575-581
business strategies
577interactivity
578-580language use
580-581for recruitment
577, 578website usability
579what company websites tell you and
                                                what they omit
576
controlled accretion using the Web
516

copyright
736

data archives
519
email discussion groups
256, 522
email questionnaires
384

ethics
90-92, 520-522
anonymity
522AoIR guidelines
582gaining consent
521, 581-582misinterpretation
522ownership
522privacy
521secondary data research
581-582
growth of
575
informed consent
90-91, 92literature searches
105, 108-114, 119-120online questionnaires
255-256
publishers' websites
113
questionnaires
255-256, 383-385, 386reading lists
112-113
search engines
112
social networks
113-114
companies' use of
575, 577
statistics websites
518

treatment of subjects by researchers

91


Web links
518


interpretive studies
37
interpretivism
22, 25-28, 35interviews
62, 186-187, 396-425
accuracy
404bias
402-403case study: interviewing about
                                        'engaging' brands
416-417case study: when the interviewee says
                                        'no'
423closing the interview
410-411compared with questionnaires
397-398confidentiality
420consistency
404control of the interview
407-408document sheet
188dos and don'ts checklist
414ethics
421-423, 422
actions
423ethnographic
467-468focused
400group interviews
415-416improvising
408-409informal conversational
400informed consent
80interviewer-administered
                                        questionnaires
257-8interviewer error
267-268item non-response
267, 614listening skills
410multicultural interviews
414-415neutrality
404, 416non-directive
399number of interviews
402observing
410online
90-91, 418-419participant information sheet
420-421with photographs
542-543preparation
404-405problem-centred
401purposes of
397questions: wording
409reasons for
396-397recording and transcribing
411reflecting
410reliability
402-403report
412-413
diversity of opinion
413quotations
412-13researcher-respondent relationship
201
body language
413building rapport
406empathy
406explaining purpose of
                                                interview
405, 407impression management
407initial contact
404multicultural interviews
414-415problem respondents
413seating arrangement
405-406use of language
407and researcher's philosophical
                                        position
399and safety
96sampling
402semi-structured
399, 400sensitive data
83structured
257-258, 391, 399, 400telephone interviews
417-418using mixed methods
208-209validity
401-402see also
                                    focus groups; questionnaires; surveys
investigator triangulation
194

Irwin, K.
473

ISI Web of Science
110




James, William
29

Jankowicz, A.D.
43
JISCmail
114,
                                522
Jobber, D. and O'Reilly, D.
266

Johnson, R.B. et al
205
journals. see
                            academic articles; research journals/diaries


Kahan, K.P.
496-497Kappa statistic
118,
                                119
Kaufman, R. and Keller, J.M.
307
Kenyon, E. and Hawker, S.
95, 256
Keppel, G. et al
139
Kinnunen, U. et al
212-213Kirkpatrick, Donald
304,
                                305, 308Kitzinger, J.
506,
                                507
Krueger, R.A.
506
Krueger, R.A. and Casey, A.
498,
                                502-503, 506, 507
Kumar, S. et al
280





language use in interviews
407

Lathlean, J.
351
Laurie, H.
210-211Leonard-Cross, E.
148-149Lewin, K.
176,
                                336, 341libraries
106,
                                110
Likert scales

373

Lincoln, Y.S. and Guba, E.G.
28, 195LinkedIn
45, 113-114, 575
literature reviews:

appropriate literature
56
components
121-122critical reviews
123, 125
criteria
126
in experimental research
140

link to methodologies

57

position in thesis
122-123purpose
6, 56, 102-103research methods
103, 122
research questions

57

results
120-121
summarizing information
121
systematic reviews
127-131
case study: Top management team
                                                diversity
129-131process
128-129and traditional reviews
127types in qualitative research
185-186
empirical literature
185-186methodological literature
186theoretical literature
185
in written reports
721


literature search:

abstracting services
110
articles
107, 109-110bibliographical databases
108-109bibliographical records
119-120books
106, 110-111
citation databases
110

conference papers
111
evaluating sources
116-119
Kappa statistic
118, 119positive and negative
                                                judgements
119quality of sources
117screening
116-17skills
118grey literature
111, 115journals
49, 106
mailing lists
114

official publications
112
online resources
110-111, 112-114organizations
114-115overview of sources
106, 107
planning

104

process
105-106
case study
115
professional associations
114

reference sources
111
referencing
123, 124, 125research terms
105, 106
sequencing
106
social networks
112-115storing data
119-120
theses and dissertations
111

using authors
115

using Boolean operators
105

longitudinal research
35, 36, 61Longitudinal Study of Young People
566-567



Madill, A. et al
27

Mael, F. and Ashforth, B.E.
382

Malinowski, Bronislaw
477


Management Learning

731

management theory
44

Manilowski, Bronislaw: The Argonauts of the
                                    Western Pacific
457

Manuscript Central website

731

market research
449-450, 523-524
Market Research Society (MRS)
524

Mason, J.
190

mass media records
563

McBurney, D.H. and White, T.L.
153

McCarthy, P. and Hatcher, C.
750

McNiff, J. and Whitehead, J.
337
McNiff, J. et al
340,
                                343Mead, George Herbert
25, 458meanings, notion of
25, 171measurement
19, 144,
                                208
Melanthiou, Y. et al
578

mental and jotted notes
465

Merriam, S.B. et al
462
methodologies
21, 22, 30-34, 60-63
action research
33analytical surveys
32-33common types
61data analysis
63data collection instruments
62-63ethical considerations
63experimental and quasi-experimental
                                        research
30-31, 62heuristic inquiry
33-34link to literature reviews
57, 103phenomenological research
31-32qualitative and quantitative research
61and research elements
35-6sampling
61, 62as section in academic articles
733
micro-ethnography
174

Miles, M.B. and Huberman, A.M.
214
Miles, M.B. et al
178-179
Milgram experiment
75

Mingers, J.
123
Mintzberg, H.
437,
                                439-440mixed methods
27, 30, 37-38, 204-214
complementarity
207criticism of
208-209definitions
204development
207examples of mixing quantitative and
                                        qualitative research
205expansion
208forms of mixed methods research
205initiation
208interviews
208-209measurement
208purists, situationalists and
                                        pragmatists
203sampling
232-235
characteristics
233identical designs
233, 234multilevel designs
235nested designs
235parallel designs
234two-dimensional mixed methods
                                                model
233-234secondary data
574-575triangulation
206-207types of mixed methods design
209-213, 210
case study: qualitative then
                                                quantitative
210-211case study: quantitative and
                                                qualitative concurrently
212-213case study: quantitative then
                                                qualitative
212monitoring technology
519-520
ethics
523-525
ethical contracts
525frameworks
523professional codes of conduct
523-524
Morrel-Samuels, P.
246

Morris, L.L. et al
326

multiple case sampling
184

multiple case studies
193




naïve realism
27
narrative analysis
176,
                                708-709
naturalistic inquiry
28

Nike
539

nomothetic research
202

normative questions
141
NVivo
656-684
annotations
663, 679coding
676-678
images
681making a node
677preparing
676removing or merging codes
677Web pages
682conceptual frameworks
675exploring data
670-673
matrix queries
672-673queries
671-3sets
670-671Word Cloud
672exploring maps
673functions
656hyperlinks
662images
680-681
coding
681importing a picture
680-681links
680initial screen
658journals
678links
679memos
663-664,
                                        678-679mind maps
675navigation tools
658new projects
674nodes:
attributes
669, 670case classifications
667-668, 669-670case nodes
667coding text to
677coding to
668links to and from
664-665making with or without coding
677naming
669using to manage data
666'see also' links
662Twitter posts imported
713viewing a project interview
659-660viewing an internal data set
660viewing an internal document
659viewing data
675-676viewing social media data
661Web pages
681-683, 682
coding
682Workspace
659



Oakley, A.
473
objectivism
22, 35, 201
objectivity
171
observation
187,
                                428-452
case study: observation in market
                                        research
449-450covert and overt
430
case study: how smart is covert
                                                observation?
431data sources
431-432ethics
448-449in ethnography
174, 429in evaluations
317-318field notes
432-436
components
232-233content
433-434example of notes and reflective
                                                comments
435-436field research
175generalizability
446participant
12, 428-430and positivism
23, 25presentation
447-448record keeping
429reliability
447research roles
430researcher bias
429selecting what to observe
443-444
case study: impact of gaudy
                                                colours
444structured
429, 437-442
advantages/disadvantages
437case study: using structured
                                                observation
439-440coding schemes
437-439employability skill
441-442event coding
439Flanders interaction analysis
                                                system
438, 439training observers
442-443types of data
182unobtrusive measures
445-446
outcroppings
445proxemics and kinesics
446site documents
445-446validity
324, 446official statistics
563,
                                    564-565online bookshops
110-111
ontology
21

Onwuegbuzie, A.J. and Leech, N.L.
239
Oppenheim, A.N.
374,
                                375
Organization of American States
83
organizational documents
559,
                                560-561
on computers
561organizational proposals
65-68
deciding to respond
65development flowchart
66final document
67preparing to write
65-67, 66Ortiz, S.N.
463-464Ozkazanc-Pan, B.
473-474


Pankey-Videla, N.
470-471paradigms
23, 24
Park, Robert
468
Patton, M.Q.
94, 224,
                                281, 282, 311, 325,
                                328, 408
peripheral sampling
184
Perry, C.
276,
                                277personal data
82-83personal documents
559,
                                    560
Petersen, N.J. and Østergaard, S.
535
Petticrew, M. and Roberts, H.
128,
                                129phenomenology
26-27, 31, 175, 218
and ethnography
27and focus groups
508-509phenomenological research
31-32, 61
case study
32and positivism
26photography
187,
                                188, 189, 348, 469
advantages
541auto-driving
543case study: credibility
550-551case study: semiotic analysis
544-545and informed consent
549, 550photo-interviewing
542-543photo novella
543-544photo voice
544'Racial types'
530reflexive photography
543visual elicitation
534-537, 543as visual notebooks
531
Pierce, Charles
29
plagiarism
120,
                                735planning
46,
                                    53, 68
Policy Study Institute
245
political records
561-562
Popper, K.R.
23
positivism
21, 22, 23-25, 26, 35, 138
case against
23-24and phenomenology
26and post-positivism
25postmodernism
21, 29
and ethnography
448
poststructuralism
458
power relations
28, 475pragmatism
29-30presentations
746-771
and assessment criteria
747assessments
763-766audiences
747, 754at conferences
753creating interest
751-752delivery
752-754, 753
body language
753-754gaining attention
753questions from the audience
754voice
754facilities
747metaphors
751nerves
747-748personal stories
751posters
766, 767-768PowerPoint
766preparation
753, 755structure:
beginning
748-749end
749middle: inductive, deductive,
                                                discursive approaches
749presenting complex processes
750-751typical structures
750team presentations
754-757
case study: preparation
756-757preparation
754-755, 756timetable
755visual aids
752vivas
757-763privacy
82-83, 190
probabilistic causality
288

Procter, M.
738

professional reports
561

Puhakainen, P. and Siponen, M.
349

purposive sampling
184



Qualidata
566-567qualitative research
62, 688-715
analytic induction
689, 690characteristics
171-172, 688compared with quantitative research
61, 170, 200, 201, 608
epistemological positions
201nature of data
202-203relationship to theory
202research focus
202researcher-subject
                                                relationship
201-202scope of findings
202see also
                                            mixed methodscomputer assisted (CAQDAS)
711, 712-713conceptual framework
179data analysis
695-709
approaches. see
                                            content analysis;
                                                conversational
                                                analysis; discourse analysis;
                                                grounded theory; narrative analysis;
                                                thematic
                                            analysisas circular process
695'emergent' qualitative
                                        design
178ethics
190focus of inquiry
178, 179goal of data analysis
656interviews
186-187, 188in mixed methods
205observation
187paradigms and strategies
172-177, 173photographs
187, 188, 189reliability
193-194, 711-712research diaries
189research questions
179-180rigour
191-195, 688role of researcher
184-185sampling strategies
183-184, 193secondary data analysis
693-694trustworthiness
195types of data
181, 182-3types of literature
185-186units of analysis
181validity
191-193, 710-11
Quality Assurance Agency for Higher Education
315

quantitative research:
categorizing data
608-612
categorical and quantifiable
                                                data
609
cleaning data
612
criticisms
170-171data layout
612-614
case study: survey instrument to data
                                                matrix
613-614matrices
613-14
degradation of data

615


descriptive statistics:
analysis
620-623presentation of data
615-620

frequency tables

611

hypothesis testing
623-651interval data
610, 611
measurement scales

609

missing data
614-615
non-response
614
nominal data

610

ordinal data
610, 611
ratio data
612


see also

                                    experimental research
                                
questionnaires
8, 62, 63, 253-256, 362-393
in action research
348advantages and drawbacks
363compared with interviews
397-398constructs measured, methods, instruments and
                                        scales
380delivery and collection questionnaires
254, 255, 390for evaluations
319-320instructions
377-378interviewer-administered
257-8, 391layout
376, 377objectivity
364online questionnaires
255-256, 296, 383-385
email
384, 390responses
256, 266, 614sampling error
255Web-based
384-385piloting
364, 385-387
case study
387postal questionnaires
253, 254, 255,
                                        389-390questions:
classification questions
367-368closed
372-374
category questions
372list questions
372ranking questions
373difficult/embarrassing
                                                questions
370drafting content
369-370filter questions
370open
371, 374Q-sort methodology
366
case study: applying Q-sort
                                                  methodology
366-367with response categories
376sequencing
375skip questions
378spacing
379writing:
what to avoid
364-365wording
365reliability
388-389response rate
376, 614, 615
non-response
615scales
379-383
case study: validated scales
381-383scale questions
373-374telephone
258-259,
                                        391types
254uses
362validity
388see also
                                    surveys
questions:
focus groups
493-495open questions
257, 493for questionnaires
62, 257
telephone surveys
62


see also

                                    research questions
                                



Rafaeli, A. and Pratt, M.
538,
                                539randomization
147,
                                248Ray, J.L. and Smith, A.D.
550-551
realism
27

Reason, P.
397

Reay, D.G.
324

recording:
audio
411, 524, 711-712video
711-712

reference books
563

Reference Manager
63
referencing
63, 123
in academic articles
734Harvard system
123, 124, 125
reflective reporting
294
reflexivity
172,
                                191-192, 472, 505,
                                694-695
dangers of
695epistemological
694personal
694
relativism
21
reliability
162-163
case study research
288-289equivalence
162in qualitative research
193-194, 711-712triangulation
37, 193-194repertory grids
321-322report writing
146,
                                718-742
for academic journals
729-774audiences
720business/technical report writing:
acknowledgements
727business/technical reports:
appendices
727conclusions
727discussion and analysis
726findings
725-726pyramid of evidence model
726recommendations
727references
727sections
725copyright
736ethics:
plagiarism
735unethical reporting
734feedback
723heading hierarchy
724intellectual property
736legal issues
735-736and literature review
721objectivity
718planning
719-721
evaluation
719purpose
719-720review
739-740starting
722-723supervisors
723theses and dissertations
727-729time
718, 721-722training reports
769work placement reports
768-769writing styles
736-739
representationalist epistemology
21

research design: definition
138


see also

                                    experimental research
                                
research journals/diaries
182,
                                187, 189, 347-348,
                                694, 722research process
4-5, 6-7
elements
35-6research proposals
53-65, 68
aims
55case study
64-65ethics: getting approval
85, 86, 87introduction
55justification
56limitations
64literature review
6, 55, 56-58
use of literature
57-58locating a suitable institution
55methodology
60-63objectives
56references
63research questions
7, 58-60structure
54work schedule
63working title
55research questions
7, 58-60, 105, 140-143
case study: formulating the question
143categories
141-142and dilemmas
140-141formulating
143and hypotheses
59, 60, 140, 144orientation
180and problems
140qualitative research
179-180for surveys
249, 250types
60research skills
10-12
research strategies, criteria for

275


research topics

4


researchers:

in ethnographic reports

479


personal values
343

power of
471
relationship with participants
201-202, 472, 473
in action research
475equality
171focus groups moderators
486-487intimacy
473reciprocity
472role in qualitative research
184-185
theoretical sensitivity
185


ResearchGate
113

results section in articles
733
rigour
191-195
authenticity
194confirmability
194credibility
194dependability
194reliability
194-195transferability
194triangulation
194trustworthiness
195validity
191-193Ritchie, B. et al
573-574
Rossman, E.B. and Wilson
203

Rugg, G. and Petre, M.
761



safety for researchers
95-96
Sample Web Questionnaires
385
sampling
62, 155-158, 218-240
error
255-256, 263-264generalizing
158hard to reach populations
235-236
case study: under represented
                                                groups
236mixed methods
232-235non-probability sampling
62, 224-32
convenience sampling
231, 232purposive sampling
225-231
confirming or disconfirming
                                                  case sampling
230criterion sampling
229critical case sampling
229extreme or deviant case
                                                  sampling
226, 232homogeneous sampling
227intensity sampling
226-227maximum variation
                                                  sampling
227multiple purposive
                                                  sampling
231opportunistic sampling
230random purposeful
                                                  sampling
228sampling politically
                                                  important cases
229snowball sampling
231, 232,
                                                  235stratified purposeful
                                                  sampling
227-228theoretical sampling
230, 232typical case sampling
226quota sampling
225population, sampling frame and sample
156and populations
155, 218, 219, 245probability sampling
62, 155, 183, 219-224
cluster sampling
183, 222-223multi-stage sampling
224simple random sampling
183, 219-220stratified random sampling
221-222, 232systematic sampling
220-221for qualitative research
183-184, 218-219representative sampling
155, 261sample size
64, 156, 184, 221, 237-239
levels of confidence
237standard deviation
237table for calculating sample
                                                size
238sampling frames
155theoretical sampling
230, 689, 704time sampling
446Saunders, M.N.K. et al
48, 253,
                                254scales
373-374, 379-383
Scheibelhofer, E.
401

Schembri, S.
537

Scherer, M.J. and Lane, J.P.
234
Schindler, R.M.
507-508
Schumann, H. and Presser, S.
365

Schutz, Alfred
175
science
23-24, 26
scientific realism
27
secondary data
556-584, 693-694
advantages
557case study: combined secondary data and
                                        primary data
565-566checklist for use of documents
693company websites/social media
575-581data analysis
567-569
approaches
567definitions
556disadvantages
557-558ethics
581-582event studies
573-574
case study: disaster event in
                                                tourism
573-574meta-analysis
572-573
case study: economic impact of
                                                smoking bans
572-573mixed methodologies
574-575qualitative data:
case study: reusing
568-569evaluating data
570selecting data
569sources of secondary data
558-566systems approach
571
Sekaran, U. and Bougie, R.
224
selection of research topics
42-52, 68
academic requirements
44access
44-45capabilities and experience
46-47and career goals
48case study
52and ethics
52generating ideas
48-50symmetry of outcomes
48time available
46unsuitable topics
51-52value of research
47self-assessment
765-766Skype interviews
418-419, 420social class
28-29
social media
45

social order
175

Social Research Association
81

Software:

for monitoring email
519
for qualitative research (CAQDAS)
711, 712-713
for references
63
see also
                                    Internet; NVivo; SPSS
sponsorship
45-46, 338SPSS
9, 590-604
Analyze
591Data Editor
591Data View
591Decimals
597Edit
591entering data
599exporting into MS Word
603File
591getting help
603interface
590-594
Analyze menu in Data View
594Data Editor window in Data
                                                View
591Edit menu in Data View
592File menu in Data View
592Graphs menu in Data View
594View menu in Data View
593missing data
598, 601modifying data
599recoding or transforming data
602variables:
Label
598Name
596Type
596, 597Values
598Variable
591Variable View window
595View
591Width
596, 597Windows interfaces
599-601
Chart Editor window
601Data Editor window
600Pivot Table Editor window
601Syntax Editor window
601Viewer window
600
stability in test scores
162

Stake, R.E.
282
Stanford prison experiment
83, 84
statistical generalization
278
Stewart, D.W. et al
487,
                                488, 489, 492, 493,
                                494
Stiles, D.R.
547

storage of data
187


Strategic Management Journal

380
Strauss, A.L. and Corbin, J.
185,
                                194, 699, 702, 705,
                                706, 707Stringer, E.T.
339,
                                342, 344
subject error
162

subjectivism
35

supervisors
56
support networks
45,
                                    46
SurveyMonkey
384
surveys
32-33, 61, 62, 244-269, 275
analytical
244, 248audience
261benchmark data
250-251budget
251coding
253descriptive
244, 245-247
case study: improving workplace
                                                surveys
246-247design and planning
249-252, 250, 259-260error:
bias
263coverage
263-264invalidity
268missing data
264-265sampling error
263-264total survey error (TSE)
263variance
263ethics
268evaluating training programmes
307, 319-320focus groups
258frame of reference of research
250gaining consent
79, 87government surveys
564-565instrument design
251introductory section
79online
255-257
case study: email discussion
256opinions of employees
319-21, 320personal data
83persuading potential participants
80piloting
251, 260process in stages
249-253, 250questionnaires. see
                                    questionnairesresearch questions
249, 250response rates
252-253, 258, 259, 265-267, 614
hierarchy of effects model
266, 267incentives
266item non-response
267, 614sampling frame
251, 252sensitive subjects
263sources of participants
251staff opinion surveys
259-263
aims and objective
260analysis
261-262audience
261implementing results
262-263planning
259-260publicity
261reporting results
262, 296research tools
261scope
260timing
261standardization
244uses
245see also
                                    interviews; questionnaires
SWOT analysis (Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities,
                                Threats)
50
symbolic interactionism
25-26, 458



Tashakkori, A. and Creswell, J.W.
205
team work
286,
                                287technical problems
51-52
technical reports
561
Teddlie, C. and Yu, F.
224-225, 233telephone interviews
417-418
record and playback
419response/non-response
418
terms (identifiers)
105

Tesch, R.
27

Thailand
464
thematic analysis
697-698
thematic map
698theoretical sampling
230,
                                689, 704
theoretical saturation
239
theoretical sensitivity
707-708theories
5-6
proof
23theses and dissertations
727-729
literature review
728, 729sections
728-729
thick descriptions
31

Thompson: Family Life and Work
                                Experience
568
timeframes in research process
35, 36
Titmuss, R.
27
Total Quality Management (TQM)
309,
                                    310
training reports
769
transcribing
411,
                                690, 691, 711triangulation
37, 193-194, 205-207,
                                287
in observation studies
447
Trost, J.E.
227

trustworthiness

195

Turk, C. and Kirkman, J.
719-720, 726, 727Twitter
575,
                                577


unobtrusive measures
9, 275,
                                276, 514
controlled accretion measures
516controlled erosion measures
516-517documents
517natural accretion measures
515
case study: cold coffee
515natural erosion measures
516


validity
147,
                                159-162, 184, 191-193, 286-288
construct validity
161, 286content validity
161-162criterion validity
161external validity
160-161, 287-288, 402face validity
159, 160and generalizability
192-193internal validity
147, 160, 191-192, 287predictive validity
162in qualitative research
191-193, 710-11research instrument and operationally defined
                                        subject areas
160statistical validity
162techniques for demonstrating
710
value of the project
47
variables
6, 144-146
dependent/independent variables
30, 145-6distribution
627operational definitions
144
Vaucher, S. et al
579

Vazquez-Montilla, E. et al
414
video
348,
                                524, 531Vigderhous, G.
417,
                                418
Vince, R. and Warren, S.
550
visual research
187,
                                530-553
advantages
541art theory
538autobiographical research
542cartoons
546content analysis
532-534
case study: female and male
                                                portrayals at work
532-534critical analysis
539
case study: Calvin Klein and gender
                                                Identity
540drawings
546, 547
case study: to elicit data on an
                                                organization's personality
547dress codes
538-539film theory
538informed consent
548-549, 550intrusiveness
549maps
548and 'myth of
                                        transparency'
532in NVivo
680-681and realism
541, 542semiotics
539video
546visual elicitation
collaborative approaches
536-537case study: brand experience of
                                                Harley-Davison
537participant-created visual
                                                data
536pre-existing data
534-535researcher-created visual data
535vivas
757-763
case study: surviving the viva
763formats
757handling objections to arguments
762mastery of own work
760mock vivas
760possible outcomes
757-758questions posed
761referencing articles
760referencing the examiner
760-761selecting an examiner
759transferring from MPhil to PhD
758



Walsh, Sam
576


Whitaker's Almanac

563
White, J.H.
65, 66, 67
Whittemore, R. et al
710

Whyte, W.F.
339


Street Corner Society

458


Wikipedia
112

Willis, P. and Trondman, M.
456

work placements
766
reports
768-769

World Bank
337
writing styles
736-739
nominalization
739sentence construction
737, 738unbiased language
737, 738vocabulary
738, 739wordiness
737


Yin, R.K.
205,
                                274, 275, 276, 277,
                                278, 280, 283, 285,
                                286, 287, 288-289Zimbardo, Philip
83, 84Zimmerman, R. et al
499-500











