
















   
   
   
   
   
  
 HYMN OF THE MULTIVERSE 6 
   
 Terra Whiteman 2018 
 All rights reserved 
 










 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 To Ernest, Erin, Mick, Tyler and my loving husband, Hank. 
 Thank you all so much for your support.  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 










 
 "The cosmos is within us. We are made of star-stuff. We are a way for the universe to know itself." 
   
 —      Carl Sagan










 
   
 O 
 WHISPERS 
   
   
 Leid Koseling—; 
   
   
 I AWAKENED WITH A HOLE CARVED out of me.  
 I'd fallen asleep in apprehension, knowing the nightmares would return. There were always two versions, yet both concluded with sable-stone corpses splayed across a sea of yellow grass.  
 But the bodies weren't familiar. The field was not from my home.  
 The scenery was Exodian, undeniably, but no place where I had ever been. My subconscious caught a glimpse of a large construct, obscured by shadows, looming in the red horizon. Every corpse crawled toward it with faces twisted in eternal horror, all captured in a disturbing still-frame moment. Some of them had wings, some did not. The dream always concluded there and although I was never among the corpses, I woke with a rapid-fire pulse and it took ages to catch my breath. And so I seldom slept. 
 Adrial was growing concerned. 
 Tonight he found me combing attica for whatever fancied my idle mind; this time it was a rare biotoxin that precipitated from mesosponges on Sigma-7. I could not be where Qaira was, but learning about the world he was on helped me pretend.  
 Attica, our multiversal library, storing everything we've learned and surveyed throughout the thirteen known universes. It had been so long since I'd updated my archive that it was easy to get lost in all the exploration.     
 "Leid." 
 My flinch was visible. When I removed the visor Adrial's demeanor was far gentler than his tone. "You should be asleep." 
 He folded his arms. "Funny, I was about to say the same thing." 
 "I'm not tired," I lied. I was exhausted, but not exhausted enough to relive the nightmare. Adrial didn't know about them; that'd only give him another reason to worry about me. After all, I was the first of our kind to come out of expiration relatively lucid. There was no telling what might happen now. 
 "You haven't slept for days." 
 "I'm not tired." 
 Adrial sighed with frustration and it made my heart sing. Just like old times, except now he was no longer my guardian, but a king. His dark brown eyes weighed me with incredulity, and then he glanced at the logs. "Sigma-7, again?" 
 "Always." 
 "He's due back in a week." 
 "I know." 
 Adrial nodded and turned to leave. "Try to sleep." 
 I fitted the visor over my eyes and laid back in the chair. "Soon." 
   
 * 
   
 "What are you doing?"  
 I turned, the world around me slowly filling in like ink spreading across paper. I was not where my dream had told me. 
 Crimson light pierced my retinas like pinpricks. I stepped away from the Exodian cliffs. Here marked the edge of our world. One more step and I'd have taken the plunge.  
 Zira decided that I had taken too long to answer him and repeated his question.  
 "Taking a walk," I said, even-toned. Honestly I had no idea what I was doing. This was why I didn't like to sleep.  
 He studied me, suspicious. "It's barely morning." 
 Outwardly Zira appeared concerned. The enmity behind his orange, blazing eyes told me otherwise. He regarded me with cool stoicism; a reminder that we had not parted on good terms. His king was dead and he was forced to play nice. Personal feelings held no place within the Court of Enigmus. 
 Or, at least, that was what we told ourselves. 
 "Where I go is not your concern," I warned, turning my back and looking out into the hazy abyss.  
 "I thought you were about to jump." 
 That may have been true. I didn't know. "Interesting. Were you here to observe?" 
 "If I wanted you to jump, I wouldn't have said anything." 
 "I'm not going to jump. You can leave now." 
 "First meal is being served," he said, visibly scathed. "Adrial sent me to tell you." 
 I nodded, saying nothing. Zira faded in my peripherals. 
 My shoulders sagged as I watched the thin thread of blue light trail from the cliff, disappearing into the red-tinged mist across the gorge. It was pulled tight like a chord, waving intermittently, plucked from the unknown.  
 It was clear that no one could see it but me. I returned to this world—to all worlds—with new eyes, capable of seeing spectrums and their subsequent anomalies otherwise undetectable to my kin. It was difficult to focus on anything when everything hit you simultaneously.  
 The chord tasted bitter and salty, like blood.  
 I retreated from the cliff, trying to scrape the taste off my tongue with my teeth, all the while ignoring the gentle hum of the thread begging me to return. There was more to our world than we knew—;  
 It had taken my metamorphosis to realize it. 
 










 
   
 I 
 ALL THE FINE PRINT 
   
   
   
   
 Qaira Eltruan—; 
   
   
   
 THIS WHOLE SCHOLAR THING wasn't such a bad gig. The five year stint with the Tagwarkian System Alliance had flown by. I left in three days.  
 Sigma-7 was a satellite discovered by the TSA in the outskirts of their massive thirteen-planet solar system. It was currently being surveyed by several corporations in the Alliance, and I'd been tasked with providing information about its chemical and physical characteristics. That was a job virtually any scholar could do (anything on this planet was identifiable by attica) but I was also required to help design a more efficient method of nuclear transmutation and, if possible, build the equipment necessary.  
 The atmosphere on Sigma-7 was not kind to Tagwarkian physiology. It required a ten percent increase of one particular gas to render the air non-toxic. That could be accomplished organically by spending a ton of resources on agriculture of certain fauna and that was indeed the long-term plan to keep the atmosphere stabilized thereafter, but no one wanted to wait five or six hundred years for fluffy plant things to make the air breathable enough to develop a colony. What the TSA had so far in the way of fission power reactors and magnetic confinement devices made it too cost-worthy for any corporations to bother investing in.  
 That had been the easiest part; I'd finished the latter portion of our agreement in the first year. 
 The remaining four had been spent in an enclosure on Sigma-7 with a group of Tagwarkian specialists as their personal planetary encyclopedia. Each day I accompanied the team out into open terrain as they researched the landscape and brought back samples to study. I archived any findings into attica and made sure they didn't wander into anything lethal. Hopefully Leid had enjoyed the poisonous mesosponge update that had nearly killed my group last week. 
 I didn't have to wear a protective suit, but did anyway just to fit in. It was easier to blend in than catch all the uncomfortable glances from the team. Like most intelligent apex species, Tagwarkians were bipedal and had binocular vision, but that was where the similarities between us ended. Each individual had varying degrees of heterochromia and their skin looked like it was dipped in shiny, blue dust. They had no hair and their fingers were frighteningly long. They were a shorter race, the tallest of the group barely reaching my elbow.  
 Surprisingly they had some of the best broadcasted audio serials that I'd ever listened to. There wasn't much to do between explorations and I filled the void with a collection of stories they had brought and stored in the enclosure's drives. It helped me understand their culture, but I steered clear of the romance serials because the thought of Tagwarkians fucking was vomit-inducing. I'd archived several of my favorite serials to show Adrial when I returned. 
 The science was my only prize and I kept to myself. I knew the names of the team members but little else because I didn't care. At first they had tried to ask me all kinds of questions and I'd spent the better part of two years dodging potential contract violations until they got the hint and left me alone. They should have read all of the fine print. 
 I spent most of the morning riding in their survey craft toward a new excavation site. Half the team stayed behind to monitor the levels of the instrument I'd helped build to convert the inner atmosphere. I'd cautioned them that changing an aspect of an environment could potentially have consequences unforeseen without further investigation, but they lacked any foresight. All they knew was that they were growing too big for their inner solar system and needed more space. That was a noble risk, I supposed. 
 This was a low-risk expedition so weapons weren't warranted. Probes sent several days before had detected the usual red, grass-blotched rocky terrain, with herds of screaming cow things and oblong, glass-looking trees that probably weren't trees at all. This planet had gone largely undiscovered but attica was able to tell me what everything was composed of. It was enough information to determine what might kill Tagwarkians, at least. 
 The sky was a wash of pink and blue. A pulsar blinked in the horizon, far enough out to only irradiate us a little. A converted atmosphere would filter most of it. For now my team could only be outside their craft and enclosure for eight hours at a time before having to de-radiate in the infirmary. For me it was like snorting stimulants; sometimes I had to resist the urge to take off my suit. 
 We arrived onsite at midday. Probes had detected strong electromagnetism coming from the crevice. Force fields often meant metal, which was precious to beings like Tagwarkians. Watching them work was boring and I spent my time leant against a glass tree a little ways from the crevice, combing through attica. I would have listened to a serial but they asked me to analyze something every ten minutes so I couldn't concentrate. 
 My eyes trailed a probe as it made its rounds across the perimeter. It was a little metallic sphere, no larger than my hand, soaring over glass treetops. The rhythmic red pulse of its beacon was hypnotic and I tuned out, watching, until it disappeared south.  
 And then something exploded from the crevice. 
 The team was screaming. A few of them were scrambling up the escarpment as a cloud of black dust billowed from beneath them. I took a few steps forward, trying to determine the situation. Had their drill malfunctioned? Had something inside the crevice collapsed? 
 Attica picked up the signature before I could see it on the normal light spectrum. There was a giant mass of heat moving within the dust cloud. The EM field around us had spiked. 
 Out bounded a giant mole-thing with scales, and horns; blue shocks flittering between them like two-pronged conductors. A member of the team was locked in its jaws and it shook him violently, raining blood across the ground.  
 I hesitated, unable to believe my fucking eyes.  
 The force field our probes had detected wasn't from a deposit of metals; it was from a burrow of electric marsupials. There was no way I could have warned the team of it, as we'd gone the entire length of our visit having never come across this sort of fauna.  
 The electric dragon-mole emitted a blinding flash.  
 I winced and looked away.  
 All the Tagwarkians screaming at each other over the comm-link went silent. Only static. The team members scrambling up from the crevice collapsed, clutching their heads. The creature scooped another into its jaws and chewed her up. They had no weapons (a risk-free expedition, fuck me) and were left without any way of defending themselves. After five years of work, this whole project would end in a matter of minutes. 
 I was forced to make a difficult decision then—one that needed a lot more time than I was afforded. 
 I ripped off the suit and sprinted toward the scene, shouting in Tagwarkian to get to their surveyor and stay back. My wings ripped from my shoulders, scythes from my wrists, and I lifted off in blur.  
 I hit the creature with the force of my shoulder. It was half the size of our enclosure, but that meant nothing to me. It slammed against the crevice slope on its side and I landed atop it, piercing it six times with both of my scythes. Its blood was hot and acrid, splattering across my uniform, singeing the fabric. Moments later, it died. 
  I archived its information into attica; this wouldn't happen again. 
 The silence was jarring and I looked over my shoulder, noticing the fifteen surviving members of the team staring at me, all frozen in place. A probe flew circles above the scene, recording a perfect shot of me standing next to the dead monstrosity. 
 Fuck.   
 










 
   
 II 
 SUBSEQUENT AFFAIRS 
   
   
   
   
 Pariah Andosyni—; 
   
     
   
   
 I WAS LAST TO ARRIVE at the assembly on purpose. We only used it for one thing, and lately that one thing was Qaira.  
 My entrance into the hall was met with shouting as my noble and Qaira engaged in a heated argument. They were stationed on opposite ends of the oblong obsidian table, out of their seats, as if placing all their weight on the table's surface would declare them the winner.  
 I suppressed a wince and took my seat with the others, who stared resignedly at the ensuing squabble. Yahweh and I shared a look, and he smirked. 
 "I don't get it," Qaira snarled. "You're acting like I should have just stood there and watched everyone get chewed up." 
 Adrial matched Qaira's expression with equal fire. "Scholars do not engage in battle. That's the first rule." He played me the feed from attica through both Qaira's archive and what the Tagwarkians had managed to capture via their probes. As I caught up, my eyebrows raised.  
 Qaira noticed the shift in my demeanor and shot me an icy, side-long glance. To counter my noble's side of the argument, he streamed us the glowing reviews that he'd garnished from Sigma-1, the Tagwarkian home planet. 
 "The only reason I haven't kicked your shit all over Enigmus is because of that," spat Adrial. "You showed them what we really are, Qaira. They can't know what we're capable of." 
 "And why not?" 
 "Because you looked just as frightening as the thing you saved them from! The Court of Enigmus's image is one of cosmic academia, not—" 
 Qaira laughed under his breath. "Being a god killer, right."  
 "It scares lessers. Not to mention we might attract the wrong attention." 
 We were known as cosmic librarians, archivists and teachers. Our entire society revolved around educating lesser, intelligent species of advancement through contractual agreements. Our true motive was to use these contracts to document and log multiversal information into our subconscious database, attica. The more worlds and people we helped, the more came knocking, and the more information we gathered. 
 Information that may eventually lead to what we really wanted to know. What were we? Why were we?  
 "I'm surprised you didn't just stand by and let them die," said Zira. "You spent half the time watching their entertainment broadcasts instead of doing any research." 
 "Get out of my archive." 
 Zira frowned. "You clearly didn't care for their well-being. Why did you do it?" 
 Qaira hesitated, looking between Zira and Adrial. "A successful contract is better than what would have happened had I stood by our terms. It needs a revision. The PR is a lot better if they know we can protect them, if it ever comes to that. You think having some apathetic, unfeeling entity standing there watching you get your face carved in is a good image? That's fucking nuts." 
 Qaira was the wildcard in our deck. My noble went easy on him—too easy sometimes—but from what I'd gathered there was a lot of history between them. He, like me, was a guardian, but Adrial almost treated him as an equal.  
 Yahweh had told me a bit of it; something about Qaira once being the derelict leader of an extinct race and a subsequent war between the celestials on The Atrium, Yahweh's original home. There was a lot of backstory from when I'd joined. Nobody liked to talk about it and I didn't ask. 
 "I tend to agree," said Aela, my noble's other guardian. They shared a look, and Adrial's expression softened. Her electric-blue eyes trailed across the members of the table. A shock of blonde hair fell over her ear, across her cheek, and she wiped it away. "Knowing of our power would garner respect, not fear. The problem here is that Qaira's just frightening in general." 
 "Thanks," muttered Qaira. 
 "There's an elegant way of revealing our scythes, then?" said Adrial, incredulous. 
 "We are what we are," said Aela. "We should use our traits to our advantage, not hide them. No one else hides their traits." 
 "No one else can weave through universes like curtains," said Leid, sucking on a cigarette.  
 Everyone looked toward her. When our Queen spoke, we listened. 
 "Take the clause out altogether. It should be up to our discretion whether or not to use force." 
 "You're very predictable, do you know that?" sighed Adrial.  
 Leid leaned back in her chair, studying her counterpart. She was seated cross-legged, a laced sundress decorated with flowery print hung loosely on her form. Her long, black hair was twisted in a braid, swept across her shoulder. She twitched a knee-length, black boot. Her demeanor was like no queen that I had ever seen. "Had I not violated that term, twice, neither you nor Qaira would be at this table arguing ethics." 
 Qaira's scowl slowly turned into a grin, realizing he was winning over the court. Although Adrial was King, Leid Queen, we were a democracy for the most part. 
 No one said anything. The following seconds felt like an hour. 
 "Everyone except for Leid can go," announced Adrial. 
 We shuffled out of the hall as Adrial and Leid continued their staring match. Aela caught up with me and we walked together toward Euxodia, our central library. 
 "I'll bet you ten vials of a'khet that the clause is removed by morning," she said, grinning wryly. 
 "No thanks. I only bet to win." 
   
 *** 
   
 Qaira Eltruan—; 
   
 Not even two hours home and I was already in trouble. I fulfilled the contract and even acted like a hero for once, and I was still in trouble. It was apparent that I couldn't win, so I'd stop trying.  
 The first thing I did when I got to my room was remove the scholar uniform that I'd been forced to wear all day, every day for the past five years. Zira had mentioned that Calenus, the previous King, had forced the scholars to wear their uniforms here as well. That would have been a total deal-breaker for me.  
 Everyone wore their own clothes now. To the outside cosmos we were Scholar, Vel'Haru, but here we could still honor the places from which we hailed. Needless to say Enigmus was a multicultural lot. 
 Since the reform, none of us had been born in Exo'daius, instead transformed from extramural worlds. Gone were the true nobles; in were the tainted, dirty remnants of a dead society. All for the better. Few of us disagreed with that sentiment.  
 I collapsed on the bed and rubbed my forehead, closing my eyes and relishing the knowledge that I was now off-duty for at least a year. No more small talk, no more pretending to be something I wasn't.  
 I reached toward my table and grabbed the pack of malay cigarettes I'd started half a decade ago. Hopefully they weren't stale. In my other life I had injected malay straight into my veins, almost killing myself in the process, but hard drugs weren't lethal to me anymore. I avoided them nonetheless. Old vices reminded me of bad times, and these were good times. 
 Malay cigarettes were the watered down version of pure malay. Celestials had commercialized them. I still got a steady supply from Yahweh whenever he visited The Atrium.  
 I lit the cigarette, and inhaled. Purple smoke seeped from my lips as I sighed, feeling that tingling sensation I'd grown to love. Anxiety's icy, gnarled grip relinquished all at once. Then I noticed an incense burner that wasn't mine resting on my bookshelf. It was half-filled with ashes, some of the powder having spilled across the spines of my most prized collections.   
 Ugh, Leid.  
 The gravity shifted and my attention moved toward the door. I sat up, just as the woman of the hour weaved through the rippling doorway. She stopped across the threshold, holding my gaze.  
 "Welcome back," she said, finally. 
 I smirked, dropping the cigarette in my ashtray. "I think you're the only one who feels that way." 
 Leid laughed quietly. "Adrial's just being dramatic. Your breach was nowhere near as bad as mine." 
 "How mad is he?" 
 She waved a hand. "He's fine. A majority of the court wants our restrictions lifted, so you're not alone." 
 I could no longer resist the urge to touch her. "Come here." 
 Leid crawled across the bed, gliding over me like silk.  
 We kissed violently, with hair-wrenching and everything, and then she nuzzled into the space between my neck and shoulder. In our embrace Leid's braid had come loose; black waves of hair fell across my arm and over the bed. 
 I arched a brow at her sudden shift. "I haven't been here for five years and all you want to do is cuddle?" 
 Leid traced her finger from my stomach to chin, tapping once. "No, but we have to wait until everyone's out of the hall." 
 "They'd clear out in short order." 
 "I just want to be here for a second," she murmured. "Don't you feel it?" 
 I said nothing, gazing down at her.  
 "The stillness," Leid continued, concluding I had no idea what she'd meant. "The immediacy is gone." 
 She looked up at me with somber eyes, and I hadn't gotten used to them yet. For our entire lives they had been violet; now they were silver and more vibrant than my own. It was enough of a change that Leid often felt like someone else. But not right now. 
 I cupped her face, grazing her bottom lip with my thumb. "I always keep my promises." 
 And she knew it. The reverence in her expression said it all. "I know."  
 "Alright, cuddle away." 
 Instead Leid straddled me, lifting the dress over her head. "Never mind, I forgot how good you look. Let's fuck." 
   
 * 
   
 After all the lust was out of our systems (for the next couple of hours, anyway) Leid listened to the serials I'd archived into attica, her expression switching between amusement and confusion throughout. I smoked another cigarette, staring at all the ripples across the black glass ceiling. We laid half-naked in bed, just like old times. 
 Once upon a time Leid had been my scholar—back when I was a nothing lesser junkie disguised as a ruler. She'd raked me through the coals, vivisected my personal being and grip on reality, all to make me better. It had taken a thousand years and a lot of rolling heads to straighten me out, but she was a patient woman. I wasn't a saint and would never be one, but I'd felt a lot prouder and hated myself a lot less since. Hell, I'd even made (and kept) new friends. 
 "Your smoke is getting in my face," Leid murmured, fanning it away. 
 I exhaled. "Tell me the difference between me smoking a cigarette and you burning incense." 
 "The difference is that it's not right beside me, in my face." 
 "You smoke cigarettes in your room." 
 "Yes but not right beside someone, in their face." 
 I sighed and ashed the cigarette. I felt good enough anyway. 
 "How've you been?" I asked. I had been waiting for her to say something, but had also momentarily forgotten that this was Leid and she never spoke about herself unless asked. Different eyes, same wife. 
 "Alright, for the most part. Adrial still treats me like a sickly child." 
 "Given the situation, I can understand." 
 Leid rolled her eyes, saying nothing else. She acted like it was no big deal that she was the first of us to awaken out of expiration. Members of Enigmus had offed themselves prior to her. They'd had their reasons, but I had found a workaround. I'd had to convince the former King to let me test things out by decapitating him. 
 Like I said, these were good times. 
 "Nobody's stopping you from going anywhere," I said, breaking the silence.  
 "Yahweh keeps poking at me," she said, ignoring me. "He's trying to build a zero-point chamber to study my genetic material." 
 I lifted my brows. "He find anything?" 
 "Not yet. He's having trouble replicating expected particle behavior here so the ZP chamber is delayed." 
 "Makes sense," I said, shrugging. "We would have to know which universe we were in to understand its laws."  
 Except, on the surface it seemed like particles behaved normally in Exo'daius. They collected and formed into things like chairs, food, and even incense ashes all over my books. But at the quantum level things didn't add up. These were particle behaviors that didn't match the size or charge of extramural particles. Which led me to believe that Exo'daius was in a fourteenth universe (that was already a given) and its laws of thermodynamics were completely foreign.  
 And strange. So strange that somehow everything that we collected extramurally did not combust or disappear when we placed them in our world. Which then led me to believe that not only did this fourteenth universe have foreign laws of thermodynamics, but it also held particles of all the other thirteen known universes. Quite the mindfuck, right? 
 All thanks to that vague property, we were able to slip between universes through distortions in the space-time continuum. That was how we made a living.  
 The gradual change in Leid's expression from warmth to wane sounded my alarms. "Anything else?" 
 She looked away, sullen. "I've been having nightmares." 
 I hesitated, a little thrown off by that. 
 "They're bad enough that I'm too scared to sleep. Adrial's taken notice." 
 "Have you tried any substances? Talked to Yahweh?" 
 "None of the substances are working. And no, I am not talking to anyone about this." She hugged her knees. "Just you." 
 "They're only dreams," I said. "They aren't real. The necessity of sleep is real." 
 "And how exactly can we know for certain what's real or isn't?" she asked, slightly annoyed.  
 I frowned. "Real things happen. Not-real things don't happen." 
 "It feels like it's happening, real or imagined." 
 Leid was seldom scared of anything, so my interest was piqued. "What are these nightmares about?" 
 Just as she was about to respond, an icy sensation traveled down both of our spines. We looked at each other, knowingly. 
 Attica had finally found a match.  
 










 
   
 III 
 INTRIGUE OF A DYING UNIVERSE 
   
     
   
 Yahweh Telei—; 
   
   
   
   
 I THOUGHT I WAS HAVING a stroke. A sharp tingle ran down my spine and a red light appeared to the left of my vision. It throbbed with my heartbeat. 
 I froze, equipment resting slack in my hand as I took in the new feeling with trepidation. When I was certain that it wasn't a stroke, I eased myself and focused on the red light. Each pulse emitted a frequency that my mind translated into language: 
 Match, match, match   
 Research Quadrant Three (RQ3) vanished around me as my conscious sped through the vacuum of space. It slowed through a hazy, microwave background and stopped on a constellation pattern outlined by the same red iridescence. Next to the image, a script of Exodian flashed.  
   
 AVADARA, CELEVIS-alpha 
   
 After five years, attica had found a match to our query. I had forgotten all about it until now. My heart thumped with excitement as I suppressed attica and placed the equipment down on the table, vacating RQ3. It wasn't a moment after I'd reached the hall when Adrial pinged us for an impromptu meeting. 
 Qaira and Leid were already at Euxodia when I arrived. Pariah and Aela had been there for a while, still holding their translucent sheets of encrypted information from whatever they had been archiving. Adrial, Sapphi and Zira walked in together. Half of the room hadn't even known attica was querying anything. 
 "Alright," sighed Adrial, taking his place behind the podium. At his presence the podium came alive and blue electricity snaked around it. "For those of you who look incredibly confused right now, let's catch you up." 
 The obsidian sphere atop the podium levitated, hovering inches above its post. A tetra-dimensional screen melded into existence from nothing in the center of the room, revealing what I'd seen in my mind: the constellation, pulsing red.  
 We gathered around. 
 "During the celestial war on The Atrium, Oraniquitis Loren had a note in her possession. It contained a single word, Codebreaker, with a drawing of this constellation," began Adrial. 
 "Oraniquitis had a note?" Zira repeated, raising a brow. "Why?" 
 "We don't know for sure, but we think her intentions were to pass it to herself after taking possession of Qaira's body. She'd left a demon with instructions to give it to Qaira after the war." 
 Everyone looked at Qaira.  
 Qaira said nothing, eyes on the screen. 
 No one really talked about the celestial war, me especially. It was during the celestial war that I'd suffered a fatal injury and was forced to become a scholar. Back then I had been beside myself at the idea of exile; now it was just an uncomfortable memory. Mostly I was homesick, as an angel's environment was quite the opposite of Exo'daius. But I wasn't an angel anymore.  
 "Why would the Scarlet Queen want anything to do with a constellation in a dying universe?" asked Sapphi.  
 "Not just any universe," said Leid, nodding to the script. "Celevis-alpha is well-familiarized with our kind. Whatever sentient life remains wouldn't welcome us back. That's where Philo is." 
 A few of us looked quizzically at each other, me included. It seemed only Qaira, Adrial and Zira knew what Leid was referring to. 
 "Same galaxy, too," stated Zira.  
 "Can't be a coincidence," said Qaira. 
 The rest of our expressions went blank as we combed attica privately for information on Philo.  
 Razekhan inhabited world.  
 Race declared extinct.  
 Forty percent match to our genetic material.  
 Suspected cause of extinction: war with an extramural sentient race. 
 No further information on that last fact. 
 Philo was located in Celevis-alpha Avadara. Only a hundred light-years away from the constellation's coordinates.  
 All of our confusion turned to intrigue, simultaneously.  
 "Maybe Oran planned to go there after she took back Enigmus," said Qaira. 
 "What could be there that would interest her?" asked Pariah. 
 Qaira shrugged. "Something interesting." 
 "Thank you for the insight," said Pariah, frowning. 
 Adrial rubbed his chin, studying the constellation. "Oraniquitis knew something we don't. Not surprising for a Proxy." 
 "We have a constellation in the middle of a galaxy, conveniently in the same galaxy and universe as our predecessors. That still leaves," Aela squinted, calculating something in attica, "forty-two million possibly post-inhabited planets in the system. Even for us, that's a lot." 
 "And dangerous," cautioned Zira, looking between us. "Nobody likes Vel'Haru there and we can't blend in with anyone." 
 I thought back to when we'd thrown the Proxy statues off the cliff, into the gorge. Adrial had ordered us to clear out the corpses in the Sanctuary during the reformation. All of the true nobles were gone and so were their macabre traditions, he'd said. Qaira had foregone the pleasure of dropping them into the abyss, hurling the kyothera instead, which had flown off into the haze at the edge of our world.  
 The proxies had looked nothing like their successors - they were gaunt and tall, with long, spindly arms and talons for fingers. If they represented the kind of sentient life existing in Celevis, then Zira was right. 
 "We have molecular markers from Philo archived. Send another query through attica to locate any planets in Celevis with similar markers," proposed Leid. "That should narrow the pool." 
 "Start in the direct vicinity of the constellation and span outward," advised Qaira.  
 "How long do you think the search is going to take this time?" I asked, crestfallen that we had to wait even longer.  
 Qaira smirked. "Less than five years." 
   
 * 
   
 All the excitement made sleep impossible. Qaira, Leid and I spent the remainder of the evening in Adrial's room, talking about recent developments.  
 Earlier Qaira had pulled me aside and asked for something to help him sleep from my pharmacy. When I inquired why he was having trouble sleeping he'd gotten defensive. I relented and gave him a 10 mL vial of a potent sedative, instructing him to mix it with a (non-alcoholic) drink.  
 Several hours later, cognizance settled in when Leid abruptly fell asleep on Adrial's bench. She was dead to the world; face-down against the cushion, arm hanging over the edge, fingers brushing the stone floor. I shot Qaira an accusatory glare and he paid me a waning grin. 
 "Leid's been having trouble sleeping. She's too proud to tell any of you." 
 "Did you put it in her glass of wine?" I exclaimed. "I told you not to mix it with alcohol!" 
 Qaira rolled his eyes. "Oh no, will she die?" Then, to the unamused expression on my face he added, "I had to mix it with alcohol or she'd have felt the meds and caught on." 
 Adrial laughed quietly. "Well, you'll be in my prayers once she wakes up." 
 I sipped my wine. This was our third bottle tonight.  
 Get-togethers were frequent for us. We were the closest in the Court, as we shared over a millennium of history. Qaira had started out as my enemy—nine hundred years and a lot of pointless deaths later, we'd fought side-by-side in the celestial war. Up until fifty years ago I'd been the Commander of the Argent Court, of Heaven, now I was a scholar-in-training among an umbrella race of brilliant minds. We liked to think the Court of Enigmus selected only the brightest applicants of lesser species—; 
 In reality, the brightest minds were usually stored in the bodies of derelicts with a ton of baggage. Over half the court consisted of exiled rulers, Adrial's newest guardian being named Pariah attested to that. He had come from a sentient race that existed only as conscious waves, known as the Chorus. Their sole purpose of existence was to subjugate and control the minds of other intelligent species, using their victims' bodies to exact their galactic plundering.  
 The details are fuzzy as Pariah had never gone into specifics, but before he was recruited he'd taken over the mind of a Melekonian and worked with Adrial and Aela to annihilate his own kind. Melekonians were a humanoid race and Pariah's physical shell was similar to ours. On the taller side, somewhere between Qaira and myself, dirty-blonde hair and laser-red eyes that held no pupils—like IR beacons, digisynthetic. Pariah's real portrait was like electroencephalography during a seizure, if that made any sense.  
 "Don't tell her I told you two," warned Qaira.  
 "It wasn't a secret." Adrial cast a wary gaze toward Leid. "I've only seen her sleep once this week. She spends all night querying attica. Zira said he'd found her on the edge of the cliff. When he called to her she seemed disoriented, surprised." 
  Qaira's expression fell, and he grew concerned. "She said she's been having nightmares. Supposedly they're scary enough that she doesn't want to sleep." 
 Adrial paused and lit a malay cigarette, blowing purple smoke into the air. He leaned against the table and rubbed his chin. "So, she's sleepwalking." 
 "Nearly off cliffs," muttered Qaira. He ashed his cigarette in the canister, center table. "She didn't tell me that part." 
 "Given everything that's happened to her, some mental trauma is expected," reasoned Adrial. "Not to mention her brain chemistry has changed. Vivid dreams aren't too preposterous a notion." 
 "Did Leid say what her nightmares were about?" I asked. 
 "We didn't get that far." 
 "We'll keep an eye on her. She doesn't have to know that—" Adrial froze, looking past me. 
 I turned in my seat, following his gaze, noticing that the bench was vacant. The abilities we presented outside of Exo'daius weren't possible here. Here we were ordinary, no more capable than any lesser in their own universe. So, how Leid had managed to get up and leave the room without any of us noticing was just a bit perplexing. 
 Qaira stood, alarmed. "Well, fuck." 
   
 *** 
 Leid Koseling—; 
   
 I was on a bridge formed by black smoke, melding into shape just a few feet ahead of me. There was nothing but crimson haze on all sides of the forming construct; my backless, violet gown trailed behind my bare feet as I soundlessly padded on. 
 Whispers from beyond caressed my auditory-visual, and I relented to their pleas. I continued my approach, well aware of what I'd find. This had happened over a dozen times—each time I could both see myself and understand what was happening, and each time I was excommunicated from my body, forced to be a spectator, cognitively trembling with fear. 
 Fear, as I was certain that Qaira had spiked my drink. Sedation was going to make it hard to force myself awake once the scenery grew unbearable.  
 I'd deal with him, if I survived this. 
 Humility followed that thought. Of course I would survive this; it was a dream.  
 The bridge ended at the island of yellow plain and red, Exodian sky. And, like before, I stepped onto land without pause. Grass crunched beneath my feet, the only sound present. My body hummed with energy as I drifted across the field. 
 Except, something was different this time—;  
 It had never been different, until now. 
 The same obsidian statues—carcasses of our own—continued their eternal crawl toward the looming escarpment. I was able to tune my attention to the horizon, beyond the field.  
 There was no escarpment, no shadows. 
 Just beyond the corpses was a porcelain-white statue of an armored giant, face hidden by a horned mask. There was an eye engraved into its plate-chiseled breast, the insignia glowing soft blue. The statue was without a weapon and its arms were outstretched, a sphere coated in electric spindles hovering inches above curled gloves. That sphere... 
 It was ours.  
 The space around the statue was illuminated in colorful waves, woven into patterns like script, or code. 
 Code.  
 Stardust around my eyes screened the sight. The whispers had turned into a collective drone that filled my head with knives. The interference of everything all at once was burning my senses.  
 I didn't want to be here. 
 I wanted to wake up. 
 I fell to my knees at the statue's feet, holding my aching head. A sting from my scalp served as warning that I was pulling my hair. I ignored it, clenching my teeth.  
 This wasn't working; I couldn't wake up. Damn you, Qaira.  
 I was given no choice and succumbed to the blaring, droning whispers:  
 Reach it. Hold it.  
 With a wince I wrapped my fingers around the warm sphere and pulled it from the resonance stream. The sparks disappeared and the sphere dulled to obsidian. The whispers stopped. I sighed in relief, clutching the sphere with both hands.  
 The relief was short-lived. Fractures in the porcelain giant formed, snaking from the base all the way to its head. A deafening crack followed, echoing across the plain. As the horned giant crumbled, another blare ripped across the sky, tinting it purple. The decibel shook the ground, and I shielded myself, expecting something to collapse on me. 
 "Leid—!"  
 I spun toward the sound of my name. There was an outline of someone taking form behind me. 
   
 * 
   
 "Leid!" 
 The dreamscape rolled away, like fog receding into thin air.  
 Qaira melded into reality with an arm outstretched, terror in his eyes. I quickly realized why; I was but an inch from stepping off the Exodian cliff. Adrial and Yahweh watched from behind him, postures poised, ready to act if necessary.  
 I recoiled, confused.  
 Qaira kept demanding to know why I was here, but I couldn't concentrate enough to respond. The luminescent thread jammed all of my senses with noise. It hurt. 
 It hurt. 
 "Stop!" I screamed, taking hold of the thread. It singed my skin and I caught a scent of burning meat.  
 There was a blinding flash and I was knocked backward. Qaira caught me before I hit the ground and we watched, still entwined, as the thread pulsed with light so intense that we had to squint. Touching it had somehow made it corporeal. Everyone could see it now. 
 The deafening blare from my dream returned, shattering the sky. All of us covered our ears, as if that would have helped.  
 Then, silence. The thread evaporated into black smoke. Again, like my dream. 
 No one said anything, watching the hazy abyss. Our breaths were quick and audible, each second passed only piling on more fearful anticipation. 
 "What..." Yahweh whispered, mesmerized by the vanishing smoke. "What was that?"  
 Somewhere beyond the haze, the unmistakable sound of a structure's collapse echoed through the red nothing. With it, came a thought: 
 The chains are broken. 
 I didn't know what that meant. 
 










 
   
 IV 
 WINGS 
   
 Qaira Eltruan—; 
   
   
   
   
 THERE WERE VERY EXCITING DISCOVERIES going on at the Court of Enigmus.  
 One, there had been an invisible thread-smoke thing attached to the cliff. Two, that thread had connected to another landmass. Three, Leid could see things we couldn't. Not a dull moment since I'd returned. 
 And everyone was losing their shit. 
 Adrial called another emergency meeting and the Court assembled in Enigmus's entrance hall. The others were already awake from the screaming sky. They rushed the stairs, asking what was going on. 
 Adrial's explanation hardly made sense, but it was the truth. Once everyone absorbed the news, we began to discuss it. We discussed everything. Being a member of the Court of Enigmus was like a being on an around-the-clock panel.  
 "That means there's somewhere else," said Zira, eyes shifting across the hall. "That means there's more to Exo'daius than this." 
 "Give Captain Obvious a prize," I said, taking a seat on the third step. "I'm more concerned about what collapsed, and what it had to do with that electric string." 
 "Well, let's ask Leid," said Adrial sardonically, gesturing to my wife. She'd been quiet through the discussion, leant against the rail with her arms crossed.  
 We all looked at her.  
 Leid glanced away, shaking her head. "All I know is my dreams, and they don't make any sense." 
 "Why did you grab that string?" asked Yahweh. "How did you know what would happen?" 
 "I didn't know what would happen. It was making too much noise. Usually I can force myself awake before things progress, but not this time." She shot me a sidelong glance.  
 Yeah, I'd gotten that loud and clear. 
 Yahweh only tilted his head, encouraging Leid to elaborate. 
 She conceded. "I grabbed it to silence it. I broke the chains." 
 "What chains?" asked Adrial. 
 Leid shrugged. "Don't know. It told me that when I touched it." 
 All of us exchanged confused looks.  
 "Okay, let's start from the top," I said, pulling a cigarette from my pocket. I was smoking way too many of these. "Tell us why you kept going to the cliff." 
 "I already told you. My dreams took me there." 
 "Can you remember them?" 
 "Yes." 
 I waited, eyebrows raised.  
 Leid shifted uncomfortably. "I walked across a bridge that led over the gorge. There was a field on the other side, like the Khel'hanna Scar. There were bodies there. Bodies of us." 
 She had everyone's full attention. I leaned forward. "What did they look like?" 
 Leid winced with recollection. "Crawling, toward a tower. It was different this time. There was a white statue with—" She paused, trying to coherently word her thoughts. "The thread you saw has been here since I've woken up. I think it's been here from the very beginning." 
 "Her dreams may not be dreams at all. They could be visions," said Zira.  
 "Visions?" repeated Pariah. "Of dead scholars across the abyss?" 
 Zira shrugged. "Visions are possible. Anything is possible now, given what just happened. Congratulations, Vel'Haru, we have been demoted to lesser ignorance." 
 "Lessers of our own world," murmured Aela, pondering that theory.  
 It wasn't a silly notion, considering we couldn't use our abilities in Exo'daius. We regenerated but with matter that was extramural. There was no pulsing, phasing, blurring or lifting pillars over our heads here. The only part of us we kept were our scythes. Plus, "Bodies, as if we've already discovered something else was out there. Calenus told me a story once of proxies and nobles sending their winged guardians to explore the abyss. They never returned." 
 Adrial glanced at Leid. "Were any of them winged?" 
 She shook her head. "I don't remember. I was trying not to look at them." 
 I watched Leid's body language. She was disheveled, shaken up. I couldn't blame her; those dreams sounded fucking horrifying. Her right palm had a nasty burn that was evidently bothering her. She kept opening and closing her fist. 
 "It's late," I said, swooping to her rescue. "Let's get some sleep and reconvene first thing." 
 "Shouldn't we be concerned by the idea that there might be something—or someone—out there?" cautioned Aela. 
 "Yes, but there's not much we can do about it while half-asleep and out of intellectual juice," I said. 
 The Court murmured their agreement and dispersed. Adrial watched us ascend the steps. "What about Leid?" 
 "I wouldn't worry about me anymore," she said over her shoulder. "The dreams are done." 
 I had no idea how she knew that, but I believed her. 
   
 *** 
   
 Yahweh Telei—; 
   
 Qaira asked me to bring something for Leid's hand.  
 I skimmed the shelf of my pharmacy, selecting a vial of clear liquid pain inhibitor and a small canister of numbing ointment. I was a little too happy at the idea of actually administering medicine for healing instead of recreation, because that was basically what I'd become. A glorified drug dealer. My medical supplies were never in jeopardy of running out. I couldn't say the same about my selection of mood enhancers.  
 I eyed the progress of a current batch, filtering slow, steady drops into a volumetric flask.  A titration cylinder kept the solution balanced and prepped for extraction. Next to the apparatus, a leather-bound journal sat, collecting dust. 
 Ixiah's journal.  
 He had lived in a world where written communication was replaced with collective subconscious; yet the Archaean side of him had still clung to old customs. Most of the entries were written in our native tongue. They detailed notes about his work and research, other ones were raw with emotions he hadn't ever dared to reveal.  
 Now Ixiah was gone, and I was here in his place.  
 I turned, cued by a shift in my peripherals. Zira stood just past the threshold, watching me. When our eyes met, his strayed. In the fifty years I'd been a member of the Court, Zira refused to hold eye contact with me for more than five seconds. He always had a brooding demeanor, but this particular behavior wasn't practiced out of anger. It was because I looked too much like him. 
 With a small sigh, I turned and plucked his weekly refill of stimulants. "You have terrible timing." 
 Zira took the vial from my hand. "What better time to oil the cogs than now?" 
 I nodded, saying nothing. 
 He murmured thanks and turned to leave, pocketing the vial.  
 Before he disappeared, I called, "Ziranel." 
 His body tensed at the sound of his full name. Zira looked over his shoulder, his orange eyes muted by the shadow of black hair.  
 "Would Ixiah be happy that I'm here?" 
 Zira relaxed, battling with that question. "Your brother always wanted what was best for you. He wouldn't think this was best for you." 
 I lowered my gaze. "I don't think Ixiah appreciated what he had." 
 Zira hesitated. "You're probably right." 
 Then, he disappeared through the electric curtain.  
 On my way out, I took Ixiah's journal and stuffed it into the bottom drawer of my desk. 
   
 *** 
 Qaira Eltruan—; 
   
 Leid collapsed on the bed as soon as we got inside. She fell asleep moments later, and I let her be, taking a seat at my study across the room. I wondered how angry she would be later on. Drugging her had inadvertently fixed the nightmare problem, at least. If all of this was going to happen, it would have happened eventually; Leid couldn't have kept on like that. 
 Yahweh stepped through the door with two containers in his hands, heading for my unconscious wife. He sat beside her and gingerly lifted her wrist across his leg. "Should we wake her up?" 
 "Good luck." 
 He rubbed the ointment across her open palm. Leid only stirred. She was injured by something from here, so healing would take a while. Yahweh bandaged her hand with eyes cast to the ground, in thought. 
 "Why did Oraniquitis have a map of Avadara?" he asked. 
 That question had been brought before the Court already. I was more comfortable with discussing my thoughts now, and Yahweh knew that. "I don't know, but I'm leaning toward the idea that she knew exactly what Calenus and his court were trying to find." 
 "What were they trying to find?" 
 "The same thing that we're trying to find." 
 Yahweh's expression fell with cognizance. "You mean our origins." 
 I nodded, juggling my cognition between our discussion and attica's projection of the constellation, rotating on loop. Whatever was there had something to do with what was happening here. At least, that was my working theory. I wouldn't share it yet, considering I had no explanation as to how or why. The Court wasn't interested in ideas without evidence to entertain the ideas. We were a logical bunch. 
 Yahweh set Leid's arm down beside her and she rolled to her other side, murmuring something incoherent. He drew the blanket over her and sat on the couch next to my desk, idly scanning the spines of my extramural book collection.  
 Then, he surprised me. "Oran needed wings."  
 My eyes trailed to their corners, watching him. I didn't respond, only waited for him to continue.  
 He did. "She must have known there was something beyond the abyss. You said the proxies sent their winged guardians to explore. She needed wings to get there." 
 She needed me, was what he was saying. I'd been her target for that reason.  
 "Whatever is in Avadara must be connected to that thread," he concluded. "We should run this by Leid when she's more rested. Perhaps she can fill in the gaps." 
 "Sounds good," I said. "But right now I need some rest, and so do you. There's only a few hours left before we're expected back at Euxodia." 
 Yahweh didn't object, yawning instead. "I left a pain reliever on your nightstand. The dose is two drops per drink." 
 I smirked. "A non-alcoholic drink, right?" 
 Yahweh frowned. "See you at morning meal." 
 With that he left, and I turned in my seat to watch Leid sleep. My mind swam with thoughts about what I'd seen when Oran was inside of me. All that code. All those waves.  
 The proxies had been able to see the multiverse's inner-weavings. Leid had joined their ranks. The metamorphosis had brought her to their level of cosmic sight. Unfortunately none of us could understand fully what that meant unless we, too, metamorphosed. Zira was the next to start the process, give or take a hundred Exodian years. Add another fifty years on top of that for the alteration cycle. All of it would take the kind of time that the Court of Enigmus didn't have. 
 I suppressed attica and moved to the bed. I rolled on my side and Leid inched closer, pressing her back to my chest. My arm curled across her waist, and she sighed.  
 For the first time in fifty-five years, I dreamed of Sanctum. 
 










 
   
 V 
 EXPEDITION 
   
   
 Qaira Eltruan—; 
   
   
   
   
 WE WERE SERVED OUR MEAL standing. It was Zira and Pariah's turn to cook and serve; we rotated chores each day. I had no idea how to cook and hadn't had to since signing the TSA contract. I imagined everyone would seek extramural reservations on my rotation, just like last time. I didn't mind, considering there was less clean up involved.  
 Zira and Pariah dished out our food while we assembled in a line at the center serving table. Adrial had announced that we would reconvene discussion while we ate, and once our plates were full we all filtered into Euxodia.  
 Leid poured some alcohol into her coffee, lighting a cigarette. Adrial shot her a disapproving frown, but said nothing of the small infraction. Leid was our Queen as much as Adrial was our King, and even he was indebted to Leid, having been her guardian prior to his ascension.  
 Our biological directive demanded that we be ruled by two nobles at any given time: one male, one female, usually determined by seniority. Leid had ascended after she'd slain the Ivory Queen under Oraniquitis's influence. Adrial had ascended when I'd killed the Silver King half a century ago. Until then the violet line, our line, had been looked down at.   
 Now we owned the place. 
 Yahweh plopped beside me at our wrap-around desk, holding a mug of steaming coffee. He set his plate of mashed root with bread and fruit-spread in front of him, smoothing the sleep from his tussled hair. The bread wasn't soft enough, but no one complained.  
 For some perspective, we were the most powerful race in the multiverse—at least what we found of the multiverse so far—but we kept to ourselves in our own little pocket of existentialism. We couldn't use anything from our home; our food and other resources were outsourced. Instead of simply taking control of another, more resourceful world (or solar system for that matter), we took only what we needed through contractual arrangements from lesser societies. Our knowledge and expertise for their resources.  
 We lived a bit like monks, if monks weren't theistic and instead mapped the multiverse and analyzed particle behavior using the highest form of tech possible, cerebral.  
 "I could sleep another hundred years," lamented Leid, massaging her forehead. "I'm so tired that I'm not even hungry." 
 "Eat anyway," I said. "We won't eat again until tonight." 
 Leid pushed the mashed root around with her fork, sighing in defeat, taking a bite. Her brows raised. "Better than last time." 
 "When's it your turn to cook?" I asked. 
 "I take it you want me to make tulan." 
 "Fuck yeah, I do." 
 Leid smiled. "Tomorrow night." 
 "Finally, something to live for." 
 Adrial walked to the center of the room, taking his place behind the podium. He chugged a mug of coffee. "Good morning." 
 The conversations around the room fell silent. 
 "Earlier we discussed what happened at the cliff, now we will discuss actions that we should take. Do we believe there is uncharted territory beyond the abyss? If so, are we under any threats?" 
  "I motion to explore," I said, out of turn. "And I volunteer to go." 
 Everyone looked at me. 
 "So, you believe there's more land beyond the cliff," said Adrial. 
 "I don't know. Does any of us really know?" I shrugged. "Belief means fuck-all. Knowing is everything. We haven't tried to find our roots for all this time just to get shaken by a clue." 
 "I agree," said Yahweh. "And I also volunteer to go." 
 "A noble act, but you're the only two who could go anyway," said Zira curtly. He meant to say that Yahweh and I were the only scholars with wings.  
 Adrial looked between us, his brown-flecked eyes alit with conflict. "If we're going to entertain the idea of there being more to Exo'daius than we know, we also have to entertain the idea that there are threats beyond the gorge." 
 "What threats?" I asked, incredulous.  
 "The kind that leave fields of dead Vel'Haru in their wake," murmured Leid.  
 I side-eyed her. "All the more reason to figure out what's going on." 
 "Or end up like them," said Pariah. 
 I threw up my hands. "So what's the solution, then? Should we just sit around and wait for whatever's out there to come to us?" 
 "Qaira's right," said Leid, blotting the corners of her mouth with a napkin. "I'll go with them." 
 Adrial's posture relaxed a bit. He was comforted by the idea that she would be with us. She was going for our protection. "I want to know as much as you three, but there's a lot to consider. If something happens out there, the rest of us have no way of knowing or coming to your rescue. There are no feasible rescue parties, Qaira, do you understand?" His eyes narrowed on me. 
 "I understand," I said.  
 "We'll reach the other side, see if there's land; if there is, we'll head back and report our findings. If not, we'll head back regardless," said Leid. Those were her terms. 
 Yahweh and I nodded in agreement.  
 "Does anyone have any objections to their plan?" asked Adrial.  
 The others shared conflicted looks, evidently thinking our plan was flawed. However no one spoke up. I caught Zira's gaze and he smirked; the meaning behind his expression eluded me.  
 Adrial sighed. "Alright, then our first form of action will be investigation. Leid, Qaira and Yahweh will breach our known perimeter and search for the source of the phenomenon we witnessed yesterday. Someone start a fragment, please." 
 "On it," said Aela with a blank, distant stare.  
 A second later, attica alerted us that a new fragment had been archived under our fieldwork datalog. We took a moment to read it.  
 "Update that as you go," ordered Adrial. "At least then we'll know you're still alive." 
 "It really makes my heart warm knowing how much you all care about me," I said.  
  A few eye-rolls served as my only response, because that had been sarcasm.  
   
 * 
   
 "You're not hearing me." 
 At Adrial's rebuttal I glanced away, holding my tongue.  
 "I asked why you think this is a good idea, not why you think it's warranted," he said.  
 "You realize that both of those sentences mean the same thing, right?" I asked, irritated. "Like, no difference at all." 
 Adrial exhaled malay smoke, reclining in his chair. "In a normal case, but not with you." 
 "The Court agrees with my proposal." 
 "And so do I, but I'm concerned about your motive." Adrial ashed his cigarette, pouring both of us some wine.  
 When he failed to say anything else, I snatched the glass off his desk. "Meaning?" 
 "Meaning you just got your shit together ten years ago, and suddenly you want to charge headfirst into a situation that is quite likely to get you killed." 
 I lifted a brow. "Oh, so this is about me rather than what's best for the Court." 
 Adrial ran a hand through his hair. It fell against his shoulders in a dark brown wave. He was pensive. "You become more like her every day, you know." 
 "I can't wait to grow breasts, let me tell you." And then, seriously, "I'm not scholar material. All I know is a battlefield." I was better suited for the role of Enigmus's guard dog than an advisor or instructor, and he knew it. Violence was the only constant in my life.  
 I was from a warring race led by a military society; later I was a prisoner of the Nexus Initiative, forced into being a galactic assassin for the better part of a thousand years. The only way I solved my problems was with blood. The only way I fixed things was by breaking them. No amount of rules or higher-education would change who I was—not that I was proud of being who I was, just that I'd accepted it a long time ago. Adrial thought that by making me a scholar I'd grow softer around the edges, gain more patience. He was an optimist.  
 However, here was where I might be able to shine. I had absolutely no qualms with being the first one into a fray. 
 Adrial nodded, conceding. "Not a moment's peace with you around." 
 I flashed him a serrated grin.  
 He didn't seem amused. "Are you sure you're willing to risk everything you fought so hard to gain on The Atrium?" 
 The Celestial War, he meant.  
 Leid, he meant. 
 And this was where the Vel'Haru part of me took over. "There's no sense to life if there isn't any risk. None of us would be here if it weren't for the risk I took on The Atrium." Adrial opened his mouth to respond, but I stopped him by raising my glass. "The risk was selfish, yes. But it wasn't for me." 
 "It was for you. You saved the celestial race from complete destruction, murdering the Silver King and Scarlet Queen simultaneously, just so you could be with Leid." 
 I paused, considering his summary. "That felt more like a win-win, personally. But it's different now." 
 Adrial raised his brows. "How so?" 
 "Because this isn't just for me, or Leid. I'm doing this for us. I'm as much invested in knowing the truth as any of you." 
 Adrial's demeanor shifted from impatience to intrigue. He took a sip of his drink. "Elaborate." 
 I frowned. "Are you trying to play my shrink again?" 
 He laughed. "No, I'm just curious. You don't admit to caring about anything very often." 
 I didn't relent. "As of right now all we have to go on are Leid's dreams, and that's a very flimsy lead considering dreams are subjective and often metaphorical." 
 "Fair enough." 
 I knocked back the rest of my drink in one gulp and returned the empty glass to Adrial's desk. "We'll revisit this conversation once there's a tangible risk involved. So, when do we leave?" 
   
 * 
   
 We were set to depart after evening meal.  
 I'd spent most of the afternoon laying stomach-down on my bed as Leid refilled all of the ink that had long since faded across my shoulders and arms. She straddled my lower back, piercing my skin with a coua-dipped needle as I combed attica for stellar class arrangements of Celevis-alpha.  
 This was an old galaxy in an ancient universe; all of its giant stars were dying. Everywhere was either too hot or too cold for anything to live. There were only four high-intelligent races still remaining, and two of them were post-organic, or machines, having shirked their creators a long time ago. 
 "Yahweh can barely contain himself," murmured Leid, stabbing me with the needle.  
 I winced. A thousand years later and she was still terrible at this. "You don't seem too thrilled." 
 She dipped the needle into the ink canister. "Because I'm not." 
 "Oh, come on; don't you want to know what's out there?"  
 "Yes, from the safety of my archive." 
 I arched a brow, looking back at her. "Then why did you volunteer to come?" 
 "Someone needs to keep you brave idiots alive." 
 Stab. 
 I hissed, annoyed. "Leid, be gentle." 
 "Sorry." 
 "You don't have to come," I said. "I'd prefer that you stay, actually." 
 "Would you?" said Leid, a hint of scorn in her tone. In my peripherals I saw her head tilt. "Still see me as a damsel in distress, do you?" 
 "No," I said, scoffing at that ridiculous notion. When I said nothing else, she clicked her teeth.  
 "Then why?" 
 "Because I'm still your guardian." I turned to her, propped on my elbows. She searched my face, her own softening. Now she straddled my lap. "And as your guardian I'm forced to deter you from any danger." 
 Leid hesitated, and then she leaned in and began to kiss my neck. That was enough to get my heart pumping, and I sighed away the tension, caressing the back of her head. "And as your wife," she whispered against my skin, "I'm forced to fuck you until your eyes cross." 
 "You'll smear my ink." 
 She was already unfastening my pants. "We'll fix it." 
 I knew I'd regret that decision later, no matter how good the sex was. 
   
 *** 
   
 Yahweh Telei—; 
   
 Evening meal was quiet. The tension in the air was thick enough to cut, and that was disappointing because I wanted to discuss what we might find across the abyss. Instead I sulked at my plate as everyone shared anxious looks while saying nothing. The only one who seemed unfazed was Leid, but that was just a defense mechanism. She ate quickly with a steeled demeanor, eyes on her food and nowhere else. She was on her second mug of wine. 
 Adrial caught my attention from across the room. He was looking at me, flashing a package of malay cigarettes from his breast pocket. He nodded toward the courtyard entranceway.  
 Why not. There may never be another opportunity, and I wasn't sure why that fact didn't frighten me more.  
 I took the last bite of my meal and followed Adrial as he exited the dining hall. 
 "I couldn't stand another minute in there," he said once I stepped outside, a cigarette dangling from his lips. "It makes everything worse when no one speaks." 
 He handed me a cigarette. I bowed my head, allowing him to light it for me. It tasted like soap and flowers. "Aren't you worried, too?" 
 "Yes," said Adrial, "but not enough to go completely mute." 
 I smiled, but hadn't intended to. The sky had turned yellow and I felt like I was floating. Doing this now, right before we were set to depart, probably wasn't a good idea. Qaira was going to get a heap of help from his drunk wife and her high guardian.  
 At that thought I stifled a laugh. "Is it strange that I'm not worried?" 
 "You're not worried at all?" 
 I thought about that, then shook my head. "No." 
 Adrial shrugged. "Perhaps you're better suited for this lifestyle than many of us." 
 "What scares you the most?" I ask, taking another puff. 
 "That dead Vel'Haru part of Leid's dream." He rubbed his chin in thought. "The idea that we've been living in an unknown, larger world with inhabitants who know we are here, yet haven't come calling."  
 "Perhaps they're dead," I said. "What do you know about Exo'daius's history?" 
 Adrial shook his head. "Not much, only that the proxies came here after Philo's destruction." 
 "Came here," I repeated. "This place may have existed before they arrived. We might be the only ones left." 
 "What about that thread?" 
 I tilted my head. "What about it?" 
 "We're inert here. Whoever left that wasn't, or isn't." Adrial took a seat on the steps, putting out his cigarette and absorbing the waste. We were very pro-recycling around here; in reality we were walking composts.  
 "Yes, that's a puzzle at the forefront. I need to know." I frowned, getting rid of my cigarette as well. "The curiosity is maddening." 
 Adrial grinned up at me. "That's the spirit." 
 "I just wish I had a firearm, or something long range." Physics didn't work the same here so anything residing in that domain was useless. Hand weapons were equally useless because we had our scythes, although... 
 "I need to get something," I said, hurrying back to the dining hall, leaving Adrial staring confusedly after me.   
   
 *** 
   
 Qaira Eltruan—; 
   
 "Where the fuck is he?" I whispered to Leid. 
 We stood at the edge of the cliff, clad in our Enigmus armor; black amid the vibrant yellow grass around us. The others were here as well, seeing us off. Except for Yahweh, who had disappeared at the end of evening meal, never to be seen again. 
 "Not sure. Should we look for him?" responded Leid, whispering as well. 
 "You might as well speak plainly; we can still hear you," said Zira. 
 I shot him a look. "Then go and find Yahweh." 
 Zira rolled his eyes, but turned and headed down the cliff to exact my charge. He only made it halfway down the hill before Yahweh sprinted over it, coming into clear view. There were black statues in his arms, one almost as tall as him.  
 "Sorry," he huffed, dropping the statues at our feet.  
 They weren't statues at all. They were weapons. 
 I looked to Yahweh in question. We all did.  
 "If there are any threats," he began, readjusting his armor, "then we don't have to rely on our scythes." 
 Because healing would be slow and torturous. Smart, kid. "Where did you get those?" 
 "From the Sanctuary," said Adrial, coolly. "Those are proxy weapons." 
 "Why would proxies need weapons?" I asked. 
 "Maybe for the same reason you need them," proposed Zira. 
 We all fell silent, staring at him. He was far too brooding and snide for my liking, but sometimes his intelligence shined.  
 Adrial's eyes set with cognizance. "The proxies knew." 
 Not just Oran. All of them.  
 "If we're done speculating, I'd like to go now," interjected Yahweh, impatient. He knelt down and handed Leid twin crescent blades, their glass surfaces reflecting the sky. She studied them, quizzically. He gave me a strange set of cuffs that arched into long curves. They sort of looked like my scythes.  
 Yahweh claimed the last weapon, a pole-axe nearly as tall as him. He walked by us and to the cliff's ledge, unfolding his wings.  
 I tried the weapons on. They were a snug fit between my lower forearms, but very light-weight. For a second I felt silly, like a character from one of those Tagwarkian serial dramas, but I'd take anything over severed hands.  
 Leid followed Yahweh, looking back at Adrial.  
 He nodded. "Good luck." 
 I unleashed my wings, last at the edge. I scooped Leid up and without another word Yahweh and I lifted off, showering our court with black and white feathers. They disappeared behind the mist within seconds. I squinted ahead, trying to keep my trajectory one-eighty. 
 Here we went, adventuring. 
 Did Yahweh even know how to use a polearm?  
 










 
   
 VI 
 A TANGIBLE WORLD 
   
   
 Qaira Eltruan—; 
   
   
   
 WITHOUT WIND, FLYING FELT WEIRD, almost like floating weightless out in space. The ride was a bit rough because Yahweh and I kept jerking backward after lunging far quicker than anticipating. Leid kept complaining that I was going to drop her. An hour in and I wanted to drop her.  
 Yahweh abruptly came to a halt, treading windless air. Concern bled from his only visible eye. He always kept the other concealed in a thin, black sash. As the Argent Commander, he'd never concealed his scar; I didn't know what had changed between then and now.  
 I stopped as well. "What?" 
 He looked around, searching the red mist. "I don't know if we're still straight." 
 "We're still straight." 
 "How do you know?" 
 I squinted at him, annoyed. "If a member of the Nehelian Enforcers couldn't navigate through murky environments, he would have a very short career." 
 "Most of them had short careers anyway," added Leid.  
 I ignored her two cents. 
 Yahweh nodded, deciding to trust me. We pressed on.  
   
 * 
   
 We hit land a few hours later. I was really relieved, since all that time had allowed my paranoia to convince me that we were fucked. I didn't tell Yahweh that, though. 
 I had been right, we were flying straight—but if Exo'daius's geology even remotely resembled The Atrium's, then we could have passed several islands without even seeing them.  
 But the world was solid-cored; the cliffs of this uncharted land were relatively even with the cliffs from which we had departed. There were no islands, which made me wonder what lay at the bottom of the gorge.  
 The mist thinned, then cleared altogether as our feet touched yellow grass. I placed Leid down and stretched my wings before retracting them—they were sore from the hours-long flight. I hadn't used them for decades. Yahweh felt the same, wincing as he stretched.  
 Leid seemed unfazed and only moved ahead, stopping to survey the horizon. Her armor—battle gown and hooded robe, adorned with the blazing sigil of Enigmus—blended with her hair, making a form of pure black against a vibrant red and yellow wash of sky and ground.  
 She looked over her shoulder, eyes shimmering like chrome. "Update the attica thread." 
 Yahweh and I were on it.  
 I logged that the world was solid-cored; he added a note that the landscape remained homogenous thus far. I made another note of the approximate amount of time and latitude it had taken to get here. The Court would be relieved that we were still alive. 
 Not a minute later, Zira added a geographical sub-thread that mapped out the landscape and shape of Enigmus. He was requesting that we filled in our part of the world. Couldn't do that quite yet. 
 Once Leid was assured that nothing was about to kill us, we took a ten minute breather. Anywhere else, this trip wouldn't have slowed us at all.  
 Leid chose to stand, keeping her attention to the great beyond. So far the scenery looked like Enigmus; a field of grass, red sky, nothing else.  
 No, there was something else—; 
 Beyond the haze over the horizon there was a small, circular outline that shined brighter than the rest of the sky. A sun.  
 Exo'daius had a sun.  
 I logged that into attica. Leid had already noticed, but my update prompted Yahweh to gaze skyward. His eye widened.  
 "Which way next?" I asked.  
 Yahweh hesitated, unsure.  
 Leid pointed northeast. 
 I was startled by her immediacy. "What do you see?" 
 "Another thread," she said. "It's leading that way." 
   
 * 
   
 We adhered to Leid's plan: explore for one day, then head back to discuss with the Court what we would do next. We had already confirmed that there was more to Exo'daius than we'd thought. How much was the next question. 
 Leid led the way as Yahweh and I trailed several feet behind her. Our journey was quiet, since all three of us were too busy coming to terms with everything. I juggled my attention between the sun, trying to determine if there was any movement from it as the day pressed on, and the back of Leid's head in a confused, reverent stare. I could only wonder what this world looked like through her eyes. 
 The presence of an Exodian sun was a ground-shaking discovery. It would change the way we thought about the Vel'Haru world. A sun meant this world had mass, gravity and a bed of space. It meant there were specific laws that it abided by—however mysterious they remained. It meant Exo'daius wasn't corporeal, on some metaphysical plane beyond scope. It was tangible.  
 The flat terrain spanned into a rolling one. Halfway up a massive hill, Leid stopped. We stood sentry on either side of her. All of us stared toward the top of the cliff. 
 Leid saw something, but we felt something. Our fatigue was fading, our bodies reenergizing with both anticipation and some unknown charge. After a moment she took a step forward, ready to press on.  
 "Once we're over this hill, keep behind me at all times," she ordered. "Stay close and alert." 
 Yahweh and I shared a wary gaze, following Leid's ascent. We clutched our weapons a little more tightly from then on.  
 At the top of the hill, a city lay on the horizon. We stopped to marvel; except for Leid, whose expression grew darker as she surveyed the scenery. On our cozy side of the world, the only buildings present were Enigmus and the Sanctuary—pillar gardens too, if you wanted to count that. This was something else entirely.  
 Cylindrical towers spiraled into the sky like monuments, stationed at four points along the sprawling sea of domiciles. The entire city was connected by outdoor bridge-ways. Black domes of varying sizes were situated between the bridge-ways. The center of the city held a dome larger than the rest, with spires that looked identical to our pillars.  
 We watched for movement. There was none. On the surface this city seemed abandoned. Leid had spoken on the hill as if she knew otherwise. 
 "Does the thread lead there?" asked Yahweh, nodding at the valley.  
 "I've dreamt of this place before," she said.  
 Yahweh looked hopeful. "You've been here, then?" 
 She shook her head. "It was always in the backdrop." 
 "Then it's important," I said. "Let's go." 
 Leid updated Zira's map with the abandoned city. She closed her eyes and included the scenic recollection, the image appearing next to the beacon she had designated as its location. Our eyes and memories were cameras, if we willed it. 
 We began down the hill, toward the city perimeter.  
 This was getting pretty exciting. 
   
 *** 
   
 Pariah Andosyni—; 
   
 Few of us had left Euxodia since Leid and her guardians had departed. We ate our meals here, researched here, and some of us even slept here. For half a day we remained huddled around the oscillating attica stream of the exploration thread, hoping to be the first to see another update. 
 The discovery of a sun caused a crescendo of discussion about the implication that our world had laws resembling extramural places. The steam had run out once every hypothesis was squeezed from this new fact, and now we waited for the next morsel.  
 It came several hours later.  
 A map update; they had found a city. Leid included a visual. 
 We gaped at the image.  
 "It's made of obsidian," said Zira, breathless. "There were more of us." 
 "Same material, different architecture," said Adrial. "There was more of something, but not necessarily us." 
 We digested that thought. 
 "The city looks abandoned," said Aela, somber. "Where did they go?" 
 No one knew the answer, so no one responded. 
 Then, I had a revelation. 
 "Look at the construction," I said, rising from my seat. "Their city was built elevated from the ground. Why?" 
 I knew why; I was just testing the others. 
 "The valley was carved by water," said Zira, confusion in his eyes. "But there is no water." 
 "No water now, but what if there had been?" 
 That forced them to toss aside the notion that Exo'daius was exempt from chronology. It may not have been water but some other form of liquid substance, yet the point was that the landscape had changed over time. The city was a piece of its history. 
 "Well done," said Adrial, saluting me with his glass. "That deserves a place on the thread. Do us the honor." 
 I did, warm with pride. Zira looked annoyed that I had beaten him to that conclusion. I let him stew. He already owned a third of every entry in attica's database; it was time to carve my territory. 
   
 *** 
   
 Qaira Eltruan—; 
   
 Pariah's update blipped into our attica thread. It was a geographical and historical update; something about there having been liquid in this area at one point. That was obvious, though I hadn't really given it much thought, considering everything else. Everything else being creeping through an abandoned Exodian city.  
 There were no walls or any other means of defense systems around its perimeter. A staircase led up to the first circular platform, which then led to a bridge. Such a lack of defense could only mean one thing. 
 "No enemies," I thought aloud.  
 Leid and Yahweh paused up ahead at a bridge housed by a thin, obsidian mezzanine. They both looked back at me in unison.  
 "No doors, no walls, no enemies," I elaborated, barely, gazing through an oval window that overlooked the valley boundary.  
 Leid nodded, catching on. "Same as Enigmus. We have no enemies, either." 
 "Because we're the only ones there," finished Yahweh. 
 I caught up to them, eyes trained on the large dome that marked the end of our first expedition. We were still miles away. "I'm willing to bet this is the only place we'll find around here. They thought they were alone, too." 
 Neither responded, as they both agreed. This opened the door to a ton of other questions, but none of us bothered to waste any more energy than necessary. It had already been a day since we'd eaten and although we could go several without food, we weren't immune to hunger and fatigue. All we had brought with us were a few Archaean stones to absorb once we decided to rest. Hopefully that was soon. 
 As we crossed the bridge, I added our newest findings into attica. This would give our Court a lot more to chew on than erosion. 
   
 * 
   
 At the tenth bridge, Leid finally decided to break. Yahweh and I had clearly been running on low but neither of us had complained; this was partly due to excitement, another part pride since Leid's poker face never waned and we felt pressured to act accordingly.  
 Yahweh had been the first to fall. He'd staggered into a wall of a dome that arched over another mezzanine, dropping his weapon. Until then everything had been so quiet that the sound of his pole-arm clattering to the floor had startled us. He'd apologized profusely as he retrieved the weapon, his cheeks flushed with shame. 
 At this point, had we been faced with a threat, Leid's guardians would be useless. She ordered us to rest, with some reluctance.  
 We sat on the bridge and leaned against the wall of the archway, absorbing a few Archaean stones. They were paperweights used by the administration of the Argent Court, so Yahweh could retrieve them in bulk whenever he returned to his native world on supply runs. Their heavy-metal composition made them invaluable to us, especially in situations like this.  
 The mezzanine was constructed of thin obsidian—translucent enough to see through; light shined through the tinted panes and casted us in shade. I watched the sky through the panes as the paperweight dissolved into my fist, feeling that first surge of energy as my body began its refueling process. I had an itch to smoke a cigarette—malay or otherwise—and the craving was irritating enough that I made a note to kick the habit when we got back.  
 If we got back.  
 I wasn't sure why that last thought had invaded my mind. So far nothing had proven to be an imminent threat on this expedition. Exhausting, sure; there was also the risk of getting lost but Leid was following some sort of invisible thread, so all was well on that front. Sarcasm included. 
 But something wasn't right. To be fair, there was nothing 'right' about finding an abandoned Exodian city on an unexplored landmass—; 
 However, how the inhabitants had left it was the real problem.  
 "Not a single artifact anywhere," said Yahweh, his face twisted with confusion. He'd been mulling over this for a while. "Enigmus has our equipment, and rooms, and other general traces of our existence." 
 "Maybe they didn't want to leave a trace," I ventured. "Maybe they left of their own accord." 
 "To where?" asked Yahweh. He threw up his hands to emphasize his frustration. "Where else is there to go for things like us?" 
 I lifted a brow. "Things like us?" 
 He back-pedaled. "I didn't mean it like that." 
 "I hope not," I scoffed, then added, "Maybe something chased them out." 
 Leid looked at me. We locked eyes.  
 "I'm right, aren't I?" I dared, wondering how much of her dreams she'd been withholding from us.  
 She glanced away, thoughtful, conflicted. "I don't know. Not yet." 
 "Fine," I muttered, shaking out my fist once the metal ball was all gone. "We need to sleep or we'll never find out. I'll take first watch." 
 "No," said Leid, standing. "I'll watch first. Rest, both of you." 
 Yahweh and I watched in silence as she moved across the mezzanine, slowing at the adjacent archway. Leid sat at the top of the staircase with her back turned, studying the dead city.  
 "She's acting strangely," said Yahweh, whispering. 
 "I noticed." 
 He regarded me, concerned. "You know her better than anyone. What's going on?" 
 I leaned my head against the wall and closed my eyes, too exhausted to do this right now. "I've been with her for a thousand years and I still never know what the fuck is going on. Keep up." 
 










 
 ~*~ 
   
 MEMORY LOG I—; 
   
   
   
   
 I FELT THE LIGHT BEFORE I saw it. 
 A blinding flash; everyone on the north side of Vaizera turned to dust.  
 The light receded, no one remained.  
 My brother was studying with Preceptor today, and I had just watched him die. I would have been there, too, had my progenitor not asked that I finish our tapestry.  
 A sour smell fouled the air, something burning and rotting at the same time. I watched from the window of our abode, tapestry still clutched in my trembling hands. What was left of Vaizera had frozen in time. We were all too shocked to act. Too shocked to think.  
 Too shocked to run. 
 A low-pitched drone filled the sky, overlapping the smell. It sounded like machinery.  
 The pressure changed; my antennae throbbed. Caution. 
 Vaizera exploded to life.  
 I clutched my shaking progenitor's wrist and we sped from our abode, melding with the crowd fleeing through the concourse, ascending the southern artery.  
 Explosions went off behind us. The sky flashed once more.  
 Others around me began to disappear from my peripherals. I dared to look back. They lay across the concourse, unmoving, each of them pierced with a long, twisted lance. Others floated face-down in the river, gliding along with the current. 
 My progenitor was next to fall. I was still clutching her wrist, and my arm jerked so forcibly that shooting pain rippled through my shoulder. I uttered a cry, halting to aid her. 
 She pushed me away, screaming for me to run. Blood trickled from her mouth, staining her teeth and chin. A lance pierced the soft space below her neck, pinning her to the floor. I didn't want to run and knelt in front of my dying progenitor, blood tears trickling from my eyes. 
 Another explosion. 
 I relieved myself to survival instinct. Wincing with guilt, I left my progenitor to die alone in Veizera's southern artery. Half of our city lay dead already, yet our hunters remained invisible.  
 The only chance to survive was at the antechamber. The dome, cradled within the heart of Veizera, housed the portals necessary for an escape. Where we would go, I didn't know, but that was a much easier problem to tackle than a lance through my chest, or complete vaporization.  
  I focused on the thunder of my pulse and nothing else, eyes trained on the antechamber as it filled more and more of my panoramic view.   
 Don't look back, don't look back.  
 And then I realized that I still had my tapestry, now wet with my progenitor's blood.   
 










 
   
 VII 
 CULLING OF THE WEAK 
   
   
 Pariah Andosyni—; 
   
   
   
   
 THERE WEREN'T ANY UPDATES FOR the subsequent hours and eventually all but Leid's attica status moved to stasis. They were resting, which meant it was time for recess.  
 We ate evening meal in the dining hall together, marking the first time Euxodia was completely vacant in two days. We formed our normal groups—Adrial and Aela, Zira and myself—and were seated in close proximity of each other so we could intervene in any cross-conversations.  
 And then there was Sapphire, alone at the left-most corner of our twenty foot table. She spent her time querying attica, keeping to herself. I often forgot she was here and could count the times she'd spoken over the past decade on a single hand. Her silence intrigued me. I often found myself glancing in her general direction. Tonight was no different. 
 Zira regarded me with a raised brow. "Why do you keep looking at her?" 
 I offered him a small shrug. "She's the only member of our court who isn't up for a chat until they're blue in the face. That doesn't interest you?" 
 It was Zira's turn to shrug, taking a bite of warm, fruit-filled starch. "The novelty wore off several hundred years ago. Sapphi's been quiet since day one." Their endless competition (or at least Zira's endless competition with Sapphire) was no secret among the Court.  
 Sapphire Dileesa was an ivory guardian, oldest of Enigmus next to Zira and Adrial. Our prior King had chosen Sapphire whenever a contract delivered tough demands—patience, analysis, caution. She often got the high-concept contracts that Zira desired, which had driven a wedge between them.  
 It wasn't the first time I'd heard of Zira's mistreatment from the old regime. Being constantly overlooked by his noble had been traumatizing to him. At least, that was the reason I used to explain why he was always so... callous. There were probably other reasons; Enigmus was in tumult right before I'd joined its ranks. 
 Sapphire finally caught me looking.  
 My eyes flicked down to my plate, and stayed there. 
   
 *** 
   
 Qaira Eltruan—; 
   
 We were on the move again four hours later. Our time was tracked in attica.  
 I had taken watch after waking from a nightmare that I couldn't remember, allowing Leid a couple of hours to rest. Yahweh had slept the longest, leant against the archway, curled into a ball with his forehead against his knees. He seemed confused when he'd woken, but his confusion was laced with a hint of fear. Yahweh had had a nightmare, too.  
 We passed around the last of the Archaean stones and replenished in silence. Then it was time to go. 
 The bodies began to show up as we neared the center dome of the city. There were a dozen of them scattered across the bridge-way; statues, just like us. As they got clearer, we slowed with caution.  
 "Finally," said Yahweh. 
 Leid shot him a look. She found his relief inappropriate. 
 I moved ahead, examining one of the statues that lay across the ground. It was face-down with a spear through its back, one hand outstretched toward the dome. My eyes lingered on the spear. 
 Yahweh and Leid crouched beside me, awestruck. This former creature was evidently similar to us, but also different. It was bipedal with compartmentalized anatomy—two eyes, somewhat of a nose, a mouth—and looked to be about the average height of us. However I could not distinguish a gender; its head was devoid of any hair and instead housed two prong-like antennae. It had a lithe, slender frame that didn't seem favorable for a powerful race. A long, simple robe draped its body, its hood having fallen back. 
 Every corpse was identical. 
 "I-I don't understand," stammered Yahweh, aghast. "Does this imply that they were an extension of us?" 
 "An extension of them," corrected Leid, tapping her chin. 
 "Maybe," I said. "Or maybe they just found their way here like we did." 
 Yahweh rubbed his forehead. "Okay, so that would lead to the question of how." 
 I sized him up, accepting his thought exercise. "They came from somewhere else." 
 "We existed on Philo, but the proxies don't look like them." 
 "They must have been from a different world." 
 "We can't say for certain if that's true," said Leid. "We don't know what other races existed on Philo, or when." 
 "If they were from Philo, a few of these things would have found their way to Enigmus at some point," I contended. 
 Leid considered this, eyes trained on the lance. "Perhaps they avoided us on purpose." 
 I caught her drift. "You mean you think we did this?" 
 "We don't know enough to waste any more time on the subject," evaded Leid. "But there is some concrete facts to be gleaned, here. They were running from someone." 
 "What if it was a civil war?" asked Yahweh. 
 "Civil wars don't usually look like this," I said. "All of them were retreating. None of the statues are holding any weapons." 
 Yahweh nodded, convinced. "Then that means there's at least one other place here, and they're probably not friendly." 
 "Correct," said Leid, logging our newest finding. "Let's keep moving, we're almost there." 
   
 * 
   
 The body count grew as we reached the base of the dome. The bridge-way forked out into a ring around it, leading to a single entrance beneath an overhang. The black surface of the glass reflected the horizon. It cued me to look upward; the sun had shifted several inches to the east. Interesting. 
 Leid and Yahweh stood sentry at the entrance, studying their reflections with trepidation. Around us were at least a hundred statues, displayed in varying positions of immeasurable suffering. The scenery seemed to bother Leid the most. 
 We all shared a look, and then got into formation. Leid slipped between us, and we followed directly behind her. Yahweh's ability to synchronize my movements reminded me of how visceral our behavior was. Protect our noble, at any cost. He had proven a worthy guardian so far. 
 It took a moment for my eyes to adjust to the darkness. Our steps were tracked with strange, motion-sensitive light that illuminated the path ahead. This was the first sign of their technology that we'd seen.  
 We walked slowly, our eyes darting across every angle of the entrance tunnel.  
 The entrance opened into a vast chamber. At the center of the chamber were a row of pillars that had once been portals to the extramural universes, now deactivated. They looked identical to our portal system at the Khel'hanna Scar, which was dismantling at the very least. How they had duplicated our architecture seemed impossible, unless Leid's theory of our involvement was presented. It appeared that she would be the victor of our debate; surprise, surprise.  
 Before we could react to our finding, lights flickered from above us.  
 Our eyes rose in unison. 
 A star-map rotated slowly across the ceiling, directly over the portals. A single constellation was emphasized, burning brighter than the rest. It reminded me of Oraniquitis's note. Flecks of light drifted from our feet, ascending in some kind of reverse-gravity.  
 "This is fucking unreal," I managed to whisper, turning in place as electric-blue confetti flitted across my field of vision.  
 The chamber filled with a chorus of voices. They were faint, far away. The phosphorescent stardust in the air clumped together, forming larger orbs. The voices grew louder. 
 "Thoughts," said Leid.  
 Her cryptic statement only garnered stares from Yahweh and I. She lifted a hand directly below one of the glowing orbs, cupping the air beneath it. "Unrefined thoughts," Leid continued. "These are all that's left of them." 
 Unrefined. Refining them was how we used attica.  
 Still, I had no idea what any of this meant. Beside me, Leid drew a sharp breath and closed her eyes. Before I could inquire into what she was about to do, her hand rose.  
 Leid's fingers curled around the orb. 
 










 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 ~*~ 
   
 The prime directive of alpha-Incipia is homogeneity; 
 Impurities are forbidden. 
 Dutiful Framers will exterminate impurities on sight. 
 Homogeneity is imperative.  
    
 










 
 ~*~ 
   
 MEMORY LOG II—; 
   
   
   
   
 THE ANTECHAMBER WAS TEEMING WITH frightened kin, huddled against the wall furthest from the entrance. Our gateways were dark; there was no escape. 
 How? Why did the gateways close? 
 The explosions grew nearer, and I receded into the darkness, joining my group. The young ones cried tears of crimson, clutching their progenitors for dear life. Even the children knew of our impending fate. 
 A preceptor burst through the entrance, feet pounding down the corridor, face contorted in terror. Before he reached the antechamber, an explosion shook the dome and preceptor fell face-first onto the ground. A sparking lance protruded from his lower back, and he started to petrify. 
 Shadows loomed in the entranceway; four hunters. All I could see were their eyes through the darkness—; 
 Luminous ice, predatory.  
 Everyone began to scream, scattering.  
 Amid the chaos, I dropped my tapestry. 
 










 
   
 VIII 
 CONTRITION 
   
   
 Leid Koseling—; 
   
   
   
   
 I WAS KNEELING ON THE FLOOR, screaming so hard that when I'd come to my throat was raw. My body jerked as Qaira shook me, attempting to wrench me back into reality. He kept shouting my name, and I stared up at him, seeing only the blood-soaked tapestry and those icy eyes in the shadows. 
 I shrugged free of his grasp and curled inward, holding my head. "I'm okay," I breathed, trying to calm him. I was far from okay, but admitting that wouldn't have helped matters any. Yahweh watched us from the other side of the portal system. He was frozen in place, caution behind his gaze. 
 None of this was exciting anymore, only harrowing. The wonder and beauty of the antechamber had grown ugly and menacing. I couldn't stop seeing blood everywhere. 
 "Leid," Qaira said for the fifth time. "Leid, what just happened? What did you see?" 
 "We have to get out of here," I said, my voice cracking with urgency. "Coming here was a mistake. We have to go, please." 
 He was disarmed by my fear. His eyes searched mine, wary. "Alright, we'll go." 
 The flickering memories were gone, as was the constellation. We were left in the cool darkness of an ancient crime scene. I looked toward the entrance. 
 Those eyes—they had been ours, the unmistakable silver sheen of a noble.  
 No, that was impossible. How could they have known, all this time?  
 Had Calenus known, too? 
 No.  
 We vacated the antechamber, but froze beneath the overhang when a low-pitched drone filled the sky. A gust of wind ripped through the curved bridge-way; it hit us like ice water and we reacted accordingly. Never before had there been wind in Exo'daius. What little I'd known of this place had been all wrong. 
 The drone turned into the same ear-crushing groan that we'd heard at the cliff.  
 Through red clouds, a craft slowly descended. It was shaped like a lance—pure black, no wings—and disappeared over the valley.  
 The groans died.  
 "Well," said Yahweh, breaking the ensuing silence, "they certainly seem to know a lot more about our physics than we do."   
 "I was actually hoping you were going to win this one," muttered Qaira, throwing me a look.  
 Yahweh squinted at the valley border. "Did it land?" 
 I could feel their resonance; it tasted like ours, growing stronger with each second. Closer. "Yes. They know we're here." 
 Qaira raised a hand to his head, distraught. "How?" 
 "I think I set off a trap," I confessed. "The thread I touched, that sound—" 
 "From here on out, I don't think you should act without consulting us," he snapped. "Our weapons won't do shit against that. We have to run." 
   
 *** 
 Qaira Eltruan—; 
   
 Wings were much faster, but were also a death wish.  
 Our best chance was to keep heading south on foot; there was a lot of ground to cover between us and the craft. Maintaining that distance was crucial.  
 Yahweh updated the thread as we sprinted through an archway. The Court was now informed of the hostile craft in the area, and how its owners had committed genocide on this city. Adrial was going to lose his shit, and then I would have to endure an undetermined amount of years listening to 'I told you so.' The thought almost made me want to die. 
 That was a later problem.  
 On the forefront was concern over what might happen next. I was confident that we could escape from the other side of the city, but then we would be very visible. If there was another craft anywhere in our vicinity, we were done. The chance of there being another craft was too high.  
 Thus, we couldn't leave the city.  
 We would have to hide and hope they wouldn't find us. 
 "Okay," said Yahweh between labored breaths, keeping pace. "I am officially worried now." 
 I looked to him, confused. "What?" 
 He winced in error. "Nothing, thinking aloud." 
 Leid grabbed my arm and wrenched me to a stop. I looked back at her, surprised.  
 "What are you doing?" I asked, shooting a look toward the northern span of the city. "We need to keep—" 
 "There's nowhere to run," she said, still chewing on that fact herself. "Nowhere to hide. I can feel them, and they me. The only thing we can do now is talk." 
 My eyes nearly popped out of my head. I pointed at a statue on the parallel bridge-way. It, too, had a lance buried in its chest. "You want to talk to the people who did that? Are you fucking insane?" 
 Leid's eyes flared with anger. I had scathed her. "No, you're insane for wanting to come here in the first place and now I'm trying to keep you from dying, like promised." 
 I scoffed in disbelief. "You're really going to put all this on me? I wasn't the one sleepwalking around, yanking on mass-murderers' corporeal threads." 
 "Yes, because you drugged me." 
 "I was trying to help." 
 Yahweh intervened, tapping his polearm on the ground. "Please refrain from bickering. Decide, quickly." 
 "What, you think us talking to them is a good idea?" I asked him. 
 "Not us," said Leid. "Me." 
 Yahweh and I immediately started to protest. 
 "Not a chance in—" 
 "I would strongly advise against that—" 
 "Look, you two have wings," she pressed, "which means you have the only feasible means of an escape. If either of you were to fall, I'd soon follow." 
 The pressure changed, and the silence was ravaged by an insufferable ring. All of us looked down the bridge-way. We could see nothing, as the sun had fallen further and shadows now dominated the northern side of the city. Something hummed mechanically in the distance, and it grew louder with each boom of my heart.  
 They were coming. 
 "Better me than you," Leid said firmly, clutching my forearm, reclaiming my attention. 
 I wouldn't relent. "I can't do that. I won't." 
 Leid was losing her patience. "Qaira, there's no other way. That is an order." 
 "I won't leave you here, end-of-fucking-story. You want to reprimand me for that? Go ahead." 
 "I'm not ordering you to leave. I'm ordering you and Yahweh to stay out of sight and let me talk to them. If things go wrong, intervene." 
 I didn't like this, not one bit, but I was backed into a corner and Yahweh wasn't taking my side. He just stood there looking between us like an idiot. If any more time was wasted, we were toast. "Fine." 
   
 * 
   
 Leid stood alone at the mouth of the archway. Behind her was the mezzanine, which offered shadow if she needed a quick escape. Thus concluded the single advantage that she had, as she'd given us her weapons with an order to hide. This was such a terrible plan. 
 But it was our only plan. I'd gone over every other angle.  
 Talking to them presented a meager chance that they'd let us go, or take us hostage. Being a hostage was better than being dead, and if anyone could win over a crowd, it was Leid. However her odds of being killed before we could react far outnumbered that of us being taken hostage. 
 Yahweh and I were stationed in separate circle-huts, surveying Leid on the street between us. I was fairly convinced they would be able to see us somehow, considering Leid had mentioned they'd 'felt' her, whatever the fuck that meant. Again, the odds were bad. 
 Yahweh knew this, too. He kept tossing me looks of panic. We were crouched beneath windows, on the furthest side of the doors. It gave us just enough visibility of Leid's portion of the bridge and each other. Our lesser eyes wouldn't detect us from the huts' recesses, but that really meant nothing in this circumstance. For all we knew these things had laser beams for eyes that disintegrated solid matter on contact. And after they killed you they sodomized your skull, just because. I didn't know how to sodomize a skull, but certainly they would. 
 Leid was statuesque, facing the source of the approaching sound with fearless eyes. She drew her hood, and the mechanical whir stopped. Footsteps. 
 Discovery number one, they weren't an aerial race. 
 Two forms clad in black armor appeared into our field of view. Their faces were hidden behind smooth, circular headgear that appeared to be glass in composition. It couldn't have been obsidian, as that was too heavy, but certainly looked like it—reflective and flawless, marbled with crimson. They held what looked like giant crossbows, scintillating blue sparks. Each bow housed a lance; the very same that we'd found among the slain. 
 Discovery number two, they looked like us—at least in an anatomical sense. 
 That may have been why they hadn't shot Leid on sight. One of them held their weapon on her; the other was relaxed, bow hanging at their side. Both continued to approach. Leid didn't move. 
 They stopped roughly six feet from her, talking quietly among themselves. From their tone of voice I presumed they were male.  
 "Who are you?" demanded the one pointing the bow. 
 Leid looked between them, her gaze a mixture of venom and whimsy. "I don't know anymore." 
 They spoke in Exodian, and were evidently stunned that Leid could as well.  
 Discovery number three, the inhabitants of this city hadn't spoken Exodian, which meant they were extramural. I kept the attica thread updates going as the scene unfolded. So far these people didn't seem overtly powerful or threatening, which made me relax.  
 "How did you get here?" asked the other one this time.  
 "Took a wrong turn." She surveyed the city around them. "You killed these people. Why?"  
 Neither of them responded to her question.  
 The one on the left took a step forward, raising his weapon. "I'll ask you again, how did you get here?" 
 "I followed the thread, from there." Leid pointed north. 
 The one on the right leaned into his partner. "That's Framer-talk. We should call this in." 
 "A Framer wouldn't be out here," the other said, incredulous. "Look at her hair. She's no Framer." 
 "Yes, but look at her eyes." 
 Leid only tilted her head. 
 "Fine, call it in." And to Leid, he kept his weapon pointed. "Don't move." 
 Leid did as she was told, eyes drifting to his bow. Her look was calculating, wily. She wondered how powerful he would be without it. That made two of us. 
 The partner left our field of view, talking to someone through his headgear. He was too far away to hear properly.  
 Yahweh and I shared a look, and there was ice where our eyes met. He'd come to all the same conclusions as me. 
 We would raise the stakes.  
 We would kill them. 
 A hundred years ago, Yahweh would have balked at the idea of killing someone. It didn't seem to bother him anymore. Then again, it'd be easy for even the shiniest paradigm of morality to want to kill the perpetrators responsible for a genocide so horrific.  
 I didn't really care about justice, only that they were holding Leid at lance-point. 
 "Sarine wants her," the partner announced, returning. "We have to take her to Ash'kanir for questioning." 
 "Great," said the other, sighing. "We should have just put one through her head. Now we have to travel, and they don't pay for live ones." 
 I tensed at that statement. 
 "They'll certainly pay for her. She's not like the other impurities; she speaks like a Framer." 
 As they argued about what to do with her, Leid only listened. Our attica thread regarding the hostile Exodian race was updated repeatedly, complete with a sensory capture of the conversation. They couldn't detect a thing we were doing, nor could they see us.  
 It couldn't be this easy. No way. 
 "Where are you planning on taking me?" asked Leid, interrupting their debate.  
 The one on the left grabbed her arm, his massive, glass-encased fingers curled around her tiny bicep. "That's not your concern. You'd do well to come along quietly." 
 "I don't understand," she said, resisting. It was purely an act, but a convincing one at that. "Why are you taking me away?" 
 "Don't play ignorant," he warned. "There are only ever two reasons why anyone is at the hunting grounds; you're either up to something, or you're prey."  
 "I get the feeling she's both," muttered the other.  
 Well, I'd heard enough. They weren't taking her anywhere.  
 I hurled one of Leid's daggers at her captor. It knocked the bow out of his hand and he stumbled backward. The other one made a grab for her but Yahweh dove in, wings unleashed, knocking the hunter off his feet with his polearm. The other one scrambled for his weapon on the ground, but I was already there, kicking him in the head. His armor was impenetrable. Yahweh failed to impale his partner. He kept trying. 
 And then we realized they weren't the only hunters around. That became apparent when a boom rang out, and suddenly I was pinned to the ground in some kind of electric net. It scalded my wings and I thrashed. Leid shouted my name. 
 Her cry was cut short when a lance plunged through her stomach. She dropped to her knees, clutching it.  
 "No!" I screamed, thrashing harder. 
 Another one was fired, but Yahweh lunged in front of her, knocking it off course with his own weapon. We could hear the hunters' exclamations down the bridge.  
 "What are those things?!" 
 "Contain the white one!" 
 There was nowhere to run. There were hunters in every direction, hidden, just as we'd been. This whole situation had been sorely underestimated.  
 Yahweh pulled at Leid, trying to get her on her feet. She wouldn't budge, having come to her senses with some fight. She kept reaching and screaming for me, her eyes wide in horror, like I was already dead.  
 "Get her out of here!" I ordered Yahweh. 
 He tried, but Leid fought him. She even slapped him across the face, twice. 
 More lances were fired from the surrounding shadows. The anthem of whistles through the air told me Yahweh couldn't deflect all of them this time. He moved to shield her, a selfless act that was instinct-driven, but the lances never reached them. They hit an invisible barrier and shattered.  
 Leid shoved Yahweh away, her face distorted into a furious sneer. Blood tears streamed down her cheeks and her chest heaved for breath. Her scythes unleashed, and this whole display terrified everyone.  
 With a fierce cry a wave of rippling air shot from her, whiplashing through the bridge-way with a force strong enough to render every nearby arch to dust.  
 Leid had just pulsed in Exo'daius. I couldn't believe it. 
 And then she collapsed, weak from injury. Blood seeped from her stomach and wrists, collecting in a pool around her knees. 
 Shaken, Yahweh took this opportunity to snatch her up and flee. This time, he used his wings. I watched until they disappeared, and then looked at the bloodstain Leid had left on the ground. Panic raked my insides. Would she survive? 
 The hunters—what was left of them, at least—emerged from their hiding spots and congregated at the center of the bridge-way, around me. They looked at the sky where Yahweh and Leid had blinked out of vision, but none of them gave chase. I was relieved for that, now lying still beneath the net. 
 "I told you she was a Framer," said one. 
 "She's not a Framer. Did you see what happened to her hands?" 
 "She leveled the place the way a Framer would." 
 "What about this one?" I heard, and a boot kicked the middle of my back.  
 I winced, but that was all. 
 "He's going to make us very rich," another said. "Look at those wings. Sarine will definitely want him." 
 "Agreed. Put him out." 
 I didn't know what that meant. Something pierced the back of my head, and I felt chills—; 
 Then, I felt nothing at all. 
   
 










 
   
 IX 
 PARADISE LOST 
   
   
   
   
 Pariah Andosyni—; 
   
   
   
   
 OUR RECESS LASTED ALL OF SEVERAL hours before the updates came roaring in. It started with the bodies, then the lances marring the bodies, and then the proposal of genocide from a superior race or society.  
 We hadn't even the chance to grasp the implications of these findings when our three adventurers were suddenly pursued by what Qaira had labeled hunters. He also concluded they were the ones responsible for laying ruin to the city. Leid provided a sensory capture of the scene unfolding.  
 They looked like us, even spoke our language.  
 Framers. That term was mentioned frequently. I had no clue what it meant, though appeared to be some kind of title. Perhaps another race; an even more superior race than the race cornering our scholars.  
 Adrial was growing tenser by the minute. Now Euxodia was deathly silent, all of us watching and reading the events as they scrolled along our open thread. We wore varying looks of concern, and awe. 
 Our greatest fear came true when a sudden outbreak of violence erupted from the sensory capture. Leid's stream was cut. A minute passed, and then both Qaira and Leid's statuses were moved to stasis. Curiously, Yahweh was still conscious, but he no longer added updates. 
 Seconds, then minutes passed again. No one said anything, waiting for an update. 
 None came. 
 Adrial leaned on the podium, hanging his head. "I told him," he sighed. "I always end up being right, yet no one seems to notice." 
 "We can go after them," said Zira. "We have to go after them." 
 Adrial lifted his head, narrowing his eyes.  "And how could we? The only scholars capable of getting there are on the other side of the gorge. Aside from building a fucking bridge, Ziranel, we are completely useless." 
 "How fast can we build a bridge?" asked Zira, sarcasm in his tone.  
 "I'm not even entertaining that question." 
 "You only have two guardians. Find a third, with wings," proposed Zira. 
 Adrial's eyes filled with disbelief, insult. "I make guardians both with their consent and when I can guarantee that spending centuries with them won't make me want to hang myself." 
 Contempt wicked across Zira's eyes. He was raised in the old regime and served as proof that old habits die hard.   
 "Life is precious, and only ours. Remember that." 
 "Life is not precious," stated Zira. "It can't be precious if there isn't an end to it." 
 Adrial half-smirked, amused by his remark. "Life is precious for the lessers. Thank you for proving my point." 
 "Can we stay on topic, please?" interjected Aela, uneasy.  
 Before anything else could be said, our minds fluttered with light as another ping came from attica. Such a sensation could only be described as our consciousness having a spotlight cast on it. The feeling was brief, but distinct. Adrial switched threads. 
 The Celevis-alpha query had already found a match. In Avadara there was a solar system named Ktakhu, now shown on the Euxodia feed. According to attica, Ktakhu possessed a non-descript satellite on an outer planet known as Niaphali X and contained molecular patterns of materials forged from Razekhan civilizations. It was a thousand light years from the constellation in question, one of the closest solar systems within the Avadara galaxy. 
 "Of course this happens now," sighed Adrial.  
   
 * 
   
 Our discussion had elevated to debate. Half of us wanted to pursue the match, the other half insisted that we devised a rescue plan for Leid and her guardians. The Court was tied—the only one yet to vote was Adrial. He listened to our arguments, evidently torn.  
 "There isn't a feasible way to get across the gorge," I said. "That's already established. Trying to think up a plan will only waste more time." 
 "So you propose we just leave them there," said Zira, scowling. "They would come for us if the tables were turned." 
 "Yes, but they have wings," I said. "We don't. The only thing we can do now is follow leads. Maybe it will bring us an achievable way of saving them." 
 Zira paused, his eyes widening. "Wait." 
 He navigated us back to Leid's sensory-capture of the ruins. Inside the central dome there'd been some sort of relic—we hadn't paid close attention to it aside from the overhanging constellation. It was a pillar system that looked remarkably similar to ours. Instantly, I caught on. 
 "They had a portal system," concluded Zira. "Which means there has to be a tear somewhere." 
 "Perhaps on the satellite," I encouraged. 
 "I don't see how that could be," said Aela, perplexed. "Tears in Exo'daius are screened by attica regularly. As old as that place is, we should have come across an anomaly by now." 
 Anomalies were what attica termed the tears in the time-continuum of other universes. The tears were how we slipped across them, some leading us back to our own portal system in the Khel'Hanna Scar. So far we had detected and mapped 452 anomalies within the known Multiverse. Obviously, we were missing a few. 
 "There is a connection," said a voice I barely recognized.  
 Our attention turned to the corner of the room. Sapphire lingered on that statement, gathering her audience. Her hazel eyes shimmered in the light of attica's screen; her gaze sharpened as she pulled us back to the image of Niaphali's satellite on the query thread. 
 "Oraniquitis intended on giving this clue to Qaira once he became her vessel," she elaborated. "Why would she have chosen Qaira, of all guardians?" 
 "Wings," murmured Aela. 
 Sapphire nodded. "Her immediate plans, post-infecting Qaira, had something to do with the satellite and crossing the gorge." 
 "Which solidifies a connection," I said, deferent.  
 Sapphire hesitated. "A weak connection, but a connection nonetheless. There is a forty-four percent chance that we will find more information on the satellite." 
 "Forty-four?" asked Zira, incredulous. "That's too specific to calculate without factoring in every possibility." 
 Sapphire's eyes drifted to Zira's. She said nothing at first, sizing him up. "I calculated the chance using only the factors available to us at the moment. It's all we can do." 
 "May I add that we stand a zero percent chance of finding more information about Leid's situation if we don't go to the satellite?" I interjected, raising a hand.  
 Zira and Sapphire kept their eyes locked for a second more, then she bowed her head and turned to Adrial. "Pariah speaks the truth. This may be the only shot Leid and her guardians have." 
 "In light of the new points raised, let's take another vote," proposed Adrial. "I can see from just a few of your expressions that your opinions may have changed. All in favor of exploring the satellite, raise your hand." 
 Adrial's vote was no longer necessary. It became unanimous. He cast a final, daunting look toward Leid's idle thread. "Sapphire, Zira and Pariah, you will depart for the satellite after morning meal. Until then, you must research the system's planetology and report to me the hazard level. This is a team effort, so work together." 
 I was surprised that he'd chosen me, not Aela. I hadn't even completed a contract yet. It was unclear whether he was giving me a chance to prove myself or simply couldn't risk losing his other guardian. Perhaps a bit of both—I'd make a sorry surrogate romantic partner, admittedly. 
 With that we dispersed, heading for RQ2 to assemble anything that might be necessary for our trip. We had a long night ahead of us, filled with research of radiation types, planetology, stellar security and solar weather of the Ktakhu system. Most of the other neighboring solar systems had lost their suns or been set adrift by collisions. It made for an unstable environment, especially on an exoplanet.  
  I was already tired, having gotten next to no sleep the evening before. As we entered the quadrant, Zira handed me a vial of green liquid.  
 "It'll keep you awake," he said. "You look like you need it." 
 I was about to inquire what exactly the vial contained, but realized that I didn't care so long as the exhaustion went away. With an indifferent shrug, I popped the cap and downed the whole thing in a single gulp. Zira looked at me like I'd just sprouted another head. 
 "The recommended dose is two drops," he said. On cue, I felt my heart start to race. My expression must have changed because he laughed, dryly. "Enjoy the ride." 
   
 *** 
 Adrial Trisyien—; 
   
 Euxodia was quiet, finally. It had been nearly three days of congregation, and I was in socialization-overload. I massaged my head as Aela knowingly slid me a glass of ale. We had run out of wine; chilled ale from Tal Ayen was my second choice.  
 I gulped half the glass, waiting for the weight at the base of my neck and shoulders to lift, following the warm tingle of my jaw. Aela only sipped at hers, mulling over our predicament. Her arms were crossed and she gazed idly at the ground, a look of conflict etched across her face.  
 "How severe is all of this?" she asked, near-whisper. "Honestly, how severe?" 
 I couldn't help but laugh. "I haven't a single clue. I've been King not even sixty years and already we're in hot water. Again."  
 That obviously wasn't what Aela had wanted to hear. Her pretty face was now marred with dread. 
 "As it stands, we've faced worse," I said, hoping to soften the blow. "The less we think about all the tragic outcomes, the more time we have to actually shape the one we want. Initiate a thread for our satellite exploration." 
 She nodded, collecting herself. Aela was too stern for her serene appearance—fair hair and skin, eyes the color of diamonds, ever-burning with conviction. Her form was lithe, wispy, and to any outsider her first impression would be frail. She seldom smiled, and when she did it was only at me. I felt privileged, although it was surely mutual.  
 The thread took form in my thoughts as I relieved control of my consciousness. The others, harrowed, would sense the new entry and continue preparations for their departure. I worried about Pariah. Zira and Sapphi would be able to sense a threat, though. Or, at the very least, Sapphi would. 
 "We should leave Enigmus," said Aela, out of the blue. 
 I tried to suppress my laugh with an intake of air. "And go where?" 
 "Anywhere else. At least we stand a fighting chance outside." 
 "With all of the evidence presented so far, I'd say heading extramural wouldn't stop their pursuit," I pointed out. "And any place we try to hide will only endanger its people." 
 Aela shrank into her seat, silently agreeing. She chewed on her lip.  
 "Do you need some more ale?" I asked, rising. "Because I think I need some more ale." 
 "Why did you send Pariah and not me?" demanded Aela. 
 I hesitated, knowing the answer would sound horrible and selfish. Pariah was green, only just learning the standard operating procedures of being a scholar. But we weren't scholars right now, we were prey, and the upcoming expedition to Niaphali's satellite could be a dangerous one. Too dangerous for me to sacrifice her. Too precious. 
 Horrible, I know. Once upon a time the nobles preached that they were free of lesser wants. Lesser wants being preservation of self, romantic love, anger, vengeance, ecstasy, and every other thing that made existing any fun. I'd pissed in their pool. 
 "You know why," I said. 
 At first Aela seemed insulted, scrunching up her face in confusion, but then the insult melted away; she couldn't help but be moved by my gesture. This had marked the first time that I'd actually stated where we stood, that what we did and felt broke every tradition of the Court of Enigmus. Love—intimate love—was never for noble and guardian. Guardian intimacy was not unheard of, but had I abided the rules then I would have had Leid, and Qaira certainly would have something to say about that. 
 We didn't need the rules anymore. Procreation was no longer top priority since we knew expiration wasn't the end. In fact, none of us were certain that we could naturally die. We loved who we loved, like lessers.  
 Aela was about to respond but we got a ping from another thread. It was Yahweh, adding an update to the hunter data log: 
   
 LEID IS INJURED. QAIRA WAS TAKEN. 
 HEADING BACK. 
 










 
   
 X 
 MISCONDUCT OF THE VIOLET LINE 
   
   
 Leid Koseling—; 
   
   
   
   
   
 FOR THE FIRST TIME IN AS LONG AS I COULD remember, I dreamt of Markis. Ever since I'd woken up, pieces of times lost came back to me in tiny flashes. The flashes grew to scenes, sometimes so strange and unfamiliar that I hardly knew they were memories. Time was less emphasized now, indistinctive. A circle instead of a line. 
 He hugged me as I lay in bed, the scent of aftershave fresh and damp against his cheek. My daughter, with her large violet eyes and yellow hair like Markis's, gave me nose-kisses and promised to be good at school. She pounced out with her little fuzzy backpack. I murmured something affectionate and rolled over as Markis closed the door to our room. 
 I never saw them again. 
 A sharp, twinge of pain coursing through my stomach woke me from the dream. I stared at a red, unmoving sky. My mouth was dry and my chest was heavy. The weight tripled when I remembered what had happened. 
 Qaira.  
 I shot up, crying out as the pain in my stomach intensified. Yahweh had been tending to me and recoiled at my sudden movement, regarding me with cautious eyes. He had taken off the sash around his head to use as a tourniquet for my wound, exposing the scar on his face for the first time in fifty years. Yahweh's Vel'Haru blood told him it made him look weak; I thought it was beautiful. 
 I tried to clutch the tourniquet but I still had no hands, only oozing wrist holes that had filmed over with viscous fluid. The regenerating process would be long and agonizing. I no longer had the strength to save face. I began to cry and curled into a ball, head against my knees. Yahweh only watched, patient. There was a softness to his gaze. 
 "We have to go back," I said, quivering. "We have to get him back." 
 I tried to stand and only then did Yahweh move. He held firm to my shoulders, forcing me to kneel. "No," he said. "We need to report to the Court. Adrial is expecting us. If you move around too much, you'll die of blood loss. If we hurry I can tend to your wounds, but all of my things are at the pharmacy." 
 "Yahweh!" I shouted. "Who are you? Can you hear yourself? They just took Qaira! They're going to kill him!" 
 "We can't help him," he said, his voice rising as well. "Not like this. I have to protect you. He would kill me if I didn't, and you know this." 
 My heart broke a little, staring at him in his defiance. He would have never left a fallen soldier as a celestial. As a guardian Yahweh was forced by instinct to suppress who he was to preserve me, no matter the cost. In times of danger nobles held little power over their guardians. They became uncontrollable; reduced to their legacy programming, that basic instinct.  
 I was too injured to make him obey, or at least let me go, so I had no choice but to heed him, my guardian. I knew he was right, that I would never make it to Qaira in this state, but when had logic ever cooperated with love? 
 "I only stopped to dress your wound," said Yahweh, extending his wings. "We have to go, so please let me carry you." 
 I bowed my head and looked away, seeing the lance he had pulled out of me just a few feet from us. "You shouldn't have intervened. I didn't tell you to intervene." 
 "They were going to hurt you." 
 "I had them." 
 Anger wicked across Yahweh's eyes. "Yes, I know that now, but you withheld that information from us." 
 "I was trying to protect you two from getting killed," I said through gritted teeth. "If I told you I planned to take them on myself, would you have had that?" 
 He hesitated, thinking. "Probably not." 
 "So what difference would it have made if I'd told you?" 
 "It may have changed the plan, the circumstances," he said. "You have a history of withholding information, and that this behavior is toward everyone suggests a few trust issues." 
 "You don't get to characterize me. Stay in your line, Yahweh." 
 He bit his tongue and lowered his gaze. "Can we go now?" 
 I was dizzy suddenly and didn't respond. Moments later I felt him scoop me up, heard the beating of his wings as we lifted off. 
   
 *** 
   
 Pariah Andosyni—; 
   
 The night went by in a wink. Hyper-focusing, hyperventilating, scrambling to garner any and every piece of information I could find on Niaphali-X and its satellite, all the while reminding myself to stop clenching my jaw.  
 We'd sat at the same table in RQ2 all night, but only several conversations had taken place between us, namely ones involving clarification on Ktakhu system entries while combing attica. Zira and Sapphire only spoke to each other if they had to, which didn't make things any easier. Scholars seldom worked together, and although Enigmus harbored teamwork within its walls, everyone (except for Qaira) was in constant competition with each other; contract completion, knowledge retention, and just about anything else that defined a valuable scholar. Valuable scholars received better contracts, after all. 
 We heard the new-day hymn; a frequency of chimes and static in our heads. Attica announced that it was Exodian Day 6, Year 1253. Every 667 days, another Exodian year was marked. How time here compared to other places, I didn't know. Considering we'd been around since the oldest universes, I could guess that time here was calculated a lot more slowly than anywhere else. Slowly enough that only three generations of Queendoms had passed in all of Enigmus's blood-soaked history. Proxies to true nobles, true nobles to guardian-ascended, and now us. All but three of the six lines were extinct; another thousand years and there would be just one line remaining. The derelict, tainted line, violet. 
 Zira was silver, being the sole-surviving guardian of the previous king, Calenus Karim. Sapphire was ivory, a guardian of the second-generation queen, Aphasia Galrian. The others looked at me like I was a filthy half-breed, being Adrial's guardian, violet; derelict, tainted. Tainted because violet had ascended from guardians—we were closer to lessers, according to them. The old nobles had feared guardian ascendance, as their genes were corrupted by non-binary and subjective traits. As if that was a bad thing. 
 But Adrial was King, Leid Queen, dual-violet carrying the mantle. The tenured guardians had no choice but to bend their knees as, no matter how filthy, we all were at the mercy of our monarchial programming. Despite formalities, no one seemed to dislike Adrial or Leid, although Zira had to bite through his indignation at times. He and Sapphire were the only ones left of the old regime. 
 As the new-day hymn faded, we silently left our seats and vacated RQ2. Side-by-side along Enigmus's main hall we walked, heading for Adrial's office to brief him of our findings. None of us were excited anymore, not since Yahweh had updated the hunter log. Now we were tired, frightened, worried. I somewhat regretted convincing the Court to explore the satellite.  
 Adrial was already seated, expecting us. We stood, side-by-side, in front of his desk. 
 "Here is everything that we were able to find on the satellite," said Zira, unlocking the thread, making it accessible to our King and everyone else.  
 Ktakhu was a solar system in Avadara, an elliptical galaxy within the Celevis-alpha universe. It held a blue sun, burning at roughly 10,000 K. Solar wind and flares were frequent; Ktakhu's inner planets were charred, smoking balls as a consequence. Niaphali-X barely rested in the habitable zone. The sun had intensified since the data was gathered, and indigenous-breathable gasses were estimated to have declined fifteen percent. That didn't stop us—our organs functioned in any environment so long as it wasn't too hot or too cold; I wasn't sure what would happen to us then. 
 Adrial sifted through our data with raised brows, clearly impressed by the information we were able to obtain. "There's not much about the satellite," he pointed out.  
 "No one has been there," said Zira. "It isn't tidally locked, and it has a nitrogen atmosphere." 
 "Any guesses as to the temperature?" asked Adrial. 
 Zira tapped out. Sapphire rose to the challenge. "Moderate climate. Freezing nights, hot days, but not hot enough to kill us." 
 "Freezing nights?" I repeated, able to deduce the moderate climate based on atmospheric density, but failed to see how she could be any more specific than that.  
 Sapphire paid me a look, navigating my attica feed to the moon's orbit. It was an ellipsis. Now I understood, and nodded humbly. 
 Adrial rubbed his chin, reviewing the data one more time. It seemed like he was still undecided as to whether or not this was a good idea. After what was likely seconds but felt more like hours, he suppressed attica and rose from his seat. "You're clear to depart. Make your final preparations and have morning meal. We'll see you off after that." 
   
 * 
   
 Exo'daius looked different to me when we stepped outside. The red sky, usually a dull haze, appeared more vibrant and stratified, foreboding almost. The Court followed the path down to the Khel'Hanna Scar at the bottom of the hilly terrain.  
 We walked single file, the three of us chosen for the expedition wore armor, Adrial and Aela remained in traditional clothes that adorned our Enigmus crest. Our armor was all black with reinforced material found only here. Yellow reeds at the gorge were dyed and woven into clothing that could render sharp objects impenetrable, fashioned into hooded cloaks with vests and greaves. We didn't carry weapons, as they weren't necessary in extramural places. Even if they had been necessary, our inventory currently was empty, all thanks to Yahweh.  
 The windless air made the scenery dead silent, so our footsteps and uneven breaths resonated clearly. I tuned them out, trying to regulate my heartbeat as the effects of the stimulants finally wore off, worrying about the inevitable crash to follow. I'd asked Zira for more, but he said that I had ingested his entire stock. He didn't seem happy about that, so I said nothing else. 
 At the scar, nothing grew. The sea of yellow grass ended abruptly around a black gash that was made the day the proxies had arrived. At the center they'd built a monument, a circular arrangement of pillars, thirteen in total. There were thirteen universes comprising the multiverse (at least that we knew of), and each pillar served as a gateway to a single universe. Targeting a location within a specific universe was achieved by synching attica to nearby Exodian obelisks, which were given to worlds intelligent enough to warrant our services. The closest obelisk was on Niaphali-X. How we were supposed to reach its moon was still under discussion; we'd have to see what resources were available once we arrived.  
 The pillar designating Celevis-alpha lit up, wrapped in coils of electric blue. The obsidian sphere atop the podium lifted from the podium's surface, floating mid-air like a buoy. Attica told us the synchronization was complete. It was time. It was time and I felt like passing out. 
 "Take care of our youngest," cautioned Adrial, speaking to Sapphi and Zira.  
 Their sullen faces shined with the blue phosphorescence of the activated portal. "Of course," said Zira.  
 Mortal age meant nothing here. In appearance I was older than Zira, who'd been turned right out of adolescence. I had taken the body of an adult before joining the Court—not quite old, but older than him. Once turned, you were born anew, and I may have taken offense to our King's remark if I wasn't trying so hard not to fall asleep. 
 Aela only bowed her head, and we did the same. "Keep our thread open," said Sapphire. "You'll be hearing from us soon." 
 "Good luck," said Adrial.  
 "Superstition has no place here," muttered Zira, right before we simultaneously touched the pillar and winked from existence. 
 










 
   
 XI 
 A HIGH-FUNCTIONING IMPURITY 
   
   
 Qaira Eltruan—; 
   
   
   
   
   
 I CAME TO WITH A JOLT, LAYING on my side, breathing heavily. I didn't move for more than a minute—though it'd felt like hours—as my eyes scanned the environment. What I saw made absolutely no sense at all.  
 I was enclosed in a translucent cube that hovered in the middle of an open, nondescript room of white and gray. The cube was roughly seven feet wide and ten feet tall, and when I touched the surface of the wall the light bended around my finger, almost like a screen. Awestruck, I poked around at the walls a lot longer than necessary to deduce that their grasp of technology was leagues above my own.  
 Beyond the cube were two people sitting on black, legless stools. The term people could be used loosely here; bald, gangly, their hands resting calmly on the knees of their crossed legs. I wanted to see their faces, so I banged on the wall to get their attention. 
 Neither of them moved. 
 Instead hot, white pain tore through my neck, down the length of my body. There were spots in my eyes and I collapsed to my knees. Clutching at my neck, I felt heat against my fingers but nothing else. The burning sensation died, and I was left gasping for breath in residual pain and confusion.  
 Then, one of the bald things twitched.  
 The room illuminated in blue as calligraphy, numbers and other illegible symbols flashed across invisible screens. It looked like computer-less script, scrolling through air, too quickly to read. I flinched with recognition, having seen this script before through Oraniquitis's eyes. But that script had been red, not blue, and my mind was far too numb to even attempt to process what any of this meant. The other bald thing twitched, and a message flashed across the wall of the cube:  
   
 CAN YOU READ THIS 
 YES/NO (?) 
   
 ... The fuck? I was dreaming. This had to be a dream. 
 After a moment of intense deliberation, I touched the YES option. The message vanished, and I looked over at the bald things. They hadn't moved. 
 Another message appeared, this time on the adjacent wall. I had some difficulty interpreting what it relayed, but then realized it was a thermodynamics equation from Apaeria Minor. The confusing bit was that it was shown in Exodian—not Archaean, or Human, or any of the other languages of that universe. I hesitated some more, trying to understand why these things would show me a physics equation. It was clear now that they, like us, were well aware of the Multiverse and its properties. Maybe they were trying to gauge how much I knew. 
 I finished the equation, in Exodian. Again, the message disappeared. They gave me three more thermodynamics equations from other universes. Now I was certain that they were gauging my knowledge, and perhaps if I proved how smart I was, I'd get to live long enough to escape and eviscerate them. 
 The next equation was in the vein of Dyson structure analytics. Their line of questioning had escalated from rudimentary physical sciences to solar energy harvesting. After a brief moment of calculation, I finished the equation, sweating the next one. 
 But there wasn't a next one. Seconds passed, then minutes, and nothing came. The bald things kept still, the scripts kept scrolling through the air. I used this time to update my hunter thread, unable to sensory capture anything but able to add a description of the cube and aptitude test. Confirming my survival would also give Leid some peace of mind. If she was still alive.  
 I closed my eyes with that thought. Surely I would have felt her die, like that one time in Atlas Arcantia. That horrible clenching of my stomach and the projectile vomiting it had induced was something I could never forget.  
 Something in my peripherals flashed. Another message appeared on the wall behind me.  
 I approached it, squinting. It was an equation I had never seen before. I didn't even know where to start; mass, density, velocity, and a foreign variable that kept me from understanding what physical property the equation conveyed. I must have taken too long, because they shocked me again. And again.  
 And again. They had a fucking shock collar on me.  
 I started to get angry. 
 Gritting my teeth through the pain, I lunged at the wall nearest the bald things. My shoulder rammed into the cube's surface, sending a network of light across the pane. They shocked me again, and I snarled, unleashing my scythes.  
 That finally got their attention. They turned in unison, just as I sent a scythe right through the wall of the cube, shattering it. The shards turned to sparkly dust, then disintegrated. The bald things looked at me with empty, white eyes. Both of their faces were framed with lines of blue light, like neon veins. The sight was disarming, and I hesitated just long enough for them to shock me so hard that I lost consciousness.  
   
 










 
 ~*~ 
   
 CODEMAKER'S LAW, 1 
   
 Twelve were SPLINTERED into thousands, 
 Sent to the far-reaching thereafter 
 To discover the truth, to discover the code 
 That synchronized Insipia 
   
 










 
 *** 
 Regalis Sarine-375—; 
   
 After the crossbreed broke the containment cube, Regalis Lelain-235 suggested that we euthanize him, having already gleaned anything useful about his culture's evolution. Lelain considered him a high-functioning impurity, nothing more. 
 I ordered the auditors to place the crossbreed under total stasis instead. He would be moved to the inquisition room. The auditors said nothing, moved nothing, only twitched and then the crossbreed's beautiful, violet resonance dimmed as he fell into sleep-mode on the floor. 
 Lelain's serenely blank expression waned in disappointment that I'd dismissed his opinion. As overseer of the Insipian Qualification Directive, I was obliged only to consider any actions expressed by Lelain, my assistant. He knew this, hence his deference.  
 "The Kalikri scouters said one of them had telekinesis," I reasoned, though an explanation wasn't warranted. "I would like to find out more about that." 
 "Your information came from a second-tier caste," said Lelain. "They can't comprehend our capabilities. He's no threat to us. You rewarded the scouters too many resources for him." 
 Lelain was right, but never before had I seen an impurity so powerful, so in control of our environment. Normally impurities crossed the tear into Insipia as naïve, low-level civilizations. Not them. They operated with a neural database stream, like us. Their physical strength was above anything we'd seen from Celevis-alpha, the Codemaker's first universe. They spoke our tongue, the Framer language. This crossbreed showed more similarities to us than differences, and that in itself was practically impossible for numerous reasons. One being that a culture would need a long time to evolve to such a level, and we were very skilled at euthanizing any impurities making a mark on our grid.   
 Aesthetically he was both alluring and repulsive, the obvious penchant for violence pointing to an underdeveloped social hierarchy. The weapons that protruded from his arms had slid back into his hollowed wrists. It had been thousands of years since I had seen blood of any form.  
 "Quite a mess," commented Lelain, tapping into my thoughts. 
 "Have Section Five clean it up," I said, deactivating the cloak around our observation pane. The crossbreed was no longer awake to see us. "Analyze his resonance and find the hereditary chain." 
 "His vitals are weak. He is dying of blood loss," said Lelain. 
 Such an underdeveloped shell. "The auditors will recharge him as soon as you analyze his resonance." 
 There was a momentary pause as Lelain tracked his stellar heredity. For the first time in our companionship, his slender brows furrowed in confusion. "Sarine, he traces back to Philo, Avadara." 
 "That's impossible," I said, analyzing him myself. It was as Lelain relayed. "Philo, impossible." 
 "Vel'Haru," said Lelain. "We exterminated those Rhazekan hybrids a thousand years ago." 
 "We missed a few, it appears." 
 "We never miss a few." 
 Again, Lelain was right. But he also couldn't be right this time. "We missed a few, and I will run a diagnostics on our stream to find out how. Have the auditors recharge him for now." 
 










 
 XII 
 EMPATHIC BONDING 
   
   
   
 Pariah Andosyni—; 
   
   
   
   
   
 I'D BE LYING IF I SAID I WASN'T awestruck for at least the first hour of our arrival to Niaphali-X. We materialized on a series of jagged cliffs of an old eroded crater housing an ancient spacecraft graveyard as far as our eyes could see. The sky was a wash of red and brown; the thick, gaseous atmosphere trapped the heat close to the planet's surface, rendering the air barely breathable by any lesser standards. Even for us it was a bit uncomfortable, like traversing through a sauna. 
 Sapphire and Zira showed a significantly less amount of astonishment, choosing instead to survey the landscape with sullen disappointment, knowing now that our objective would prove even more difficult than we had originally thought. Attica detected zero fauna in our immediate surroundings. For now we treated this place like a dead world. The silver lining was that there wouldn't be any threats to keep us from our first objective: finding a way to Niaphali's moon. 
 "There used to be a city here," said Zira, morose. "More than two thousand of their years ago." 
 A violent gust of wind took me by surprise, and I pulled the hood over my head. "The weather seems nice." 
 "These ships are different in composition than the metalloid imprint left by Altrians," said Sapphire. "Another civilization must have colonized here later on." 
 Zira shot her a sidelong glance. "Or they just, you know, progressed technologically. Civilizations tend to do that sometimes." 
 Sapphire met his eyes, hers relaying nothing. "Perhaps." Without another word she leapt down the cliffs toward the canyon. Zira lingered, logging the graveyard into attica.  
   
 ALTRIAN CENTRAL CITY, DEMOLISHED. 
 POSSIBLE NEW COLONIZATION. ALSO DEMOLISHED. 
   
 He took a sensory capture of the scenery, and then started after Sapphire. Ziranel Throm had never seemed the sentimental type, but the lament behind his gaze as he'd witnessed the ruin of a once prominent world was apparent. Even the older and more progressive civilizations eventually came to an end, and that was a sobering thought. More sobering was the idea that many of the civilizations we had contracted recently would be long gone by the time we visited them again. 
 As we walked through the graveyard, I brushed up on some Niaphali-X socioeconomic history. After last night I knew practically everything about the planet, but nothing of the people who had once lived here.  
 At their height, the Altrians had used 97.5% of their planet's resources and begun spacefaring voyages in search of new worlds to colonize. Unfortunately they were dealt a bad hand in terms of cosmic coordinates—there weren't any habitable-zone planets within a reasonable distance from them. The colony ships were never heard from again. Many died of famine, the rest of atmospheric alterations as Niaphali's sun expanded. What had once been lush valleys and rivers was now a hazy, muddy-brown wasteland of pink clouds and a murderous sun. 
 The Multiverse was a cruel place. I, too, lamented their fate. 
 There was an irresistible urge to study the massive ships, to feel their surface, to determine its composition. Who was right, Zira or Sapphire? Had the Altrians progressed, or were they replaced? This was important to know. 
 "Shouldn't we analyze the ships?" I asked. 
 Zira kept walking. "What for?" 
 "To find out who owned the world before it ended." 
 He smirked. "We can find that out with far less effort once we get to a city." 
 "This is a crash site," said Sapphire. "Obviously the Altrians weren't the last ones here." 
 "They either died or thrived in this environment," added Zira, conceding her theory was probably correct.  
 Sapphire took the victory humbly. "We'll find out soon enough." 
 As we reached the other side of the canyon, I slowed to watch the monolithic ships pass over us, their size rendering us insects in comparison. They rose higher than the canyon border, saluting the horizon in memorial of an old machine world. 
   
 * 
   
 We walked until the fierce, blue sun moved to the other side of the horizon. We were bored of the barren scenery, tired from the half-day trek across an unideal climate. The heat and thin air drained our energy reserves. Sapphire and Zira picked up the pace as dusk approached, apprehensive of what nightfall might bring.  
 I struggled to keep pace, my lack of physical training evident. Clearly I was a hindrance to my seasoned companions (or chaperones, as Adrial had hinted), but neither complained, only slowed whenever they saw me straggling too far behind. Clouds condensed above as the sun gave its farewell, fading beneath the skyline. The wind picked up, intermittent gusts ravaged the land and sent me stumbling. We climbed a cleft of sharp, petrified ground. Another gust hit us and Sapphire nearly fell. Zira grabbed her right before she was blown off the cleft. 
 "I think we should call it a day!" I yelled over the wind.  
 "You want to set up camp here?" Zira called back. "Your body will be crushed by the weather and there's nothing to replenish with!" 
 He had a point. Instead of replying I bit back my exhaustion and continued to climb. 
 Once we were across the cleft (which spanned miles), an orchard of serrated trees welcomed us to a strangely different stretch of environment. They were less like trees and more like pikes sticking from the long grass, purple, gnarled and twisted, armored with blood-red thorns. Some kind of monument rested at the center of the orchard. There was little shelter this place could provide, but none of us were able to resist the temptation of investigating the dying world's hardiest fauna. More so the relic. At least for me. 
 We approached the orchard without discussion, synching our data streams in preparation for a collective thread update. Like drones answering the charge, we marched toward uncertainty under a threatening night sky. Drones were a good way to describe us. Most of our actions were carried out of free will, but some were instinctive, reflexive. Protecting our nobles, exploring the unknown, learning the unfathomable.  
 We had no time to investigate the relic. As we reached the middle of the orchard, it began to storm. The masochistic world showered us with yellow hail that was definitely not composed of water, burning our skin. We drew our hoods and sat around a tree with our backs against the trunk, knees to our chests, wondering what to do next. We couldn't stay here for long. 
 —There.  
 It was Zira. We communicated through telepathy now, unable to speak over the storm. He was looking north, and I followed his gaze. Beyond the orchard the ground sloped. There was some kind of hovel carved into a hill.  
 The hail began to scorch the tree we were under, but oddly the grass was unaffected. We darted for the hovel, our bodies whirring across the unkempt field, using the last of our energy reserves to keep the acid hail from singeing our flesh.  
 Hopefully the storm didn't last long, or else Qaira's rescue team would need a rescue team. 
   
 * 
   
 "This isn't letting up," I said, several hours later.  
 Zira raked his fingers through a clump of dead tallgrass, blown into the hovel by the storm. Some of the blades were left ragged, used for his replenishment. "It can't last more than the night." 
 "How do you know?" I asked. 
 "This area is flush with fauna," said Sapphire, kneeling a few feet from the hovel's entrance. "If this was a regular event, there would be none." 
 "And if by sheer luck we just so happened to come here the day of a cataclysmic event, then what?" 
 "Then we have terrible luck," said Zira.  
 Sapphire looked at me, her hazel eyes reflecting streaks of lightning beyond our shelter. There was an inexplicable question behind her gaze. "There is only a twenty percent chance that a cataclysm is occurring." 
 "Twenty-point-six," corrected Zira. 
 She side-eyed him. "I truncated." 
 Zira gave her a pretentious smirk that always meant he was teasing. "Our circumstance calls for rounding. Numbers mean nothing if you can't convey their importance." 
 "Importance of what? Panic?" snapped Sapphire, taking the bait. It was the first time that I'd seen her so emotionally-charged. Until now she was unflappable; robotic, even. 
 "Since we're going to be here for at least a little while," I intervened, "why don't we make this time useful?" 
 "Doing what?" asked Zira. 
 I shrugged. "Getting to know each other better."  
 They looked toward me in unison, bewildered.  
 "Share our stories," I elaborated. 
 "Our stories," repeated Zira, amused. "Should we hold hands in a circle, too?" 
 "Any story we have is available in the attica stream," said Sapphire. 
 "Not the stories of who we were," I said.  
 Sapphire was confused. "I don't understand why you think sharing our origin stories would be useful." 
 "Team-building," I said, matter-of-factly, "forms stronger bonds, and maybe after sharing your tragic pasts with each other you'll be less inclined to bicker." 
 "We'll be less inclined to bicker when Sapphi stops flaunting her expertise," said Zira. 
 "My past isn't tragic," said Sapphire, ignoring Zira. 
 "Let us be the judges of that," I said. "Let's all swear that this will stay between us and practice some empathic bonding." 
 Zira frowned. "You sound too much like your psychologist noble." 
 "Our psychologist king," I corrected him. "And thank you, I'll take that as a compliment." 
 Almost all of the scholars looked down on soft sciences, only placing any merit in the harder disciplines. But our king offered them something no king had previously—a voice.  
 Soft sciences couldn't protect anyone from threatening technology or an imminent cataclysm, but it made for a more considerate, conscientious leader. He relied on our advisory in areas where his knowledge was lacking. It made us feel like a well-oiled machine, working together as a multidisciplinary collective. It was also the reason why we were trapped in an acid-hail storm, but that was neither here nor there. 
 Sapphire's confusion turned into apprehension. "The only way empathy can happen is if we affix our subconscious stream. That would give us access to more than just our memories." 
 "If we go looking," said Zira. "Which we won't." 
 "You're onboard with this?" she asked. 
 Zira cast me a sideways glance. "I've always wondered what he was." 
 I grinned. "Like I said, this stays between us." 
 "I'm not going first," said Sapphire. 
 "I'll go first," I said. "It was my idea, after all." 
 Zira and Sapphire sat cross-legged on the ground in silent concession. I joined them, and we closed our eyes together. Empathic bonding meant we linked our subconscious data streams. Attica was our device integration system. Our brains were the devices. Through this mechanism we could experience each other's thoughts, even memories as we replayed them.  
 I felt a thrum within my mind and knew the integration was complete. As promised, I went first. 
   
 * 
   
 SONG OF EXTINCTION 
 Pariah Andosyni 
   
   
 WE WERE THE CHORUS, cast into the vacuum of Eversae Major, serenading nothing. 
 At one time we were corporeal; we learned, lived, loved under an ancient blue sky with warm wind and the scent of moist grass across sprawling fields. Palpability was fleeting.  
 In common with other sentient, ambitious races, we progressed with greed and sucked our world dry in a matter of a thousand years. By then we were starved and riddled with disease as war after war for the last drop of resources raged. Overpopulation suddenly turned to underpopulation while EXTINCTION carved our epitaph. 
 As everything crumbled asunder, we receded into the digital world, virtual reality, knowing our end was near and unable to cope. The pain of hunger gnashing at your insides, the fear of being robbed on the street, the smell of waste and abandon, the knowledge that your existence would soon end and it all meant nothing... 
 We couldn't cope. 
 Only a seventh of our world had the luxury of digital access. VR was only for the ever-dwindling commonwealth. When it all finally ended we'd receded so far into the digital world, our bodies having wasted away long before then. We felt nothing. 
 And we felt nothing thereafter. 
 At first our digital—now conscious—world was a utopia. But soon it became a prison, crowded with our thoughts, our wills, our desires. We could progress no more and the scenery was boring. We missed physical reality, even though the only difference between PR and VR was that we knew the latter was synthetic. Wondrous and warm thoughts turned dark, adulterated by stunted growth. We lamented our past and the decisions made. We wanted to explore a reality that we couldn't control.  
 Millennia passed; playing gods stripped us of our ethics and turned us into caged animals. We sought to break free, and we did, dispersed upon spectral waves of light and sound, crossing Eversae Major in search of vessels—bodies—that could allow us to reclaim all that we had lost. 
 We were the Chorus. 
 Again, millennia passed. Dozens of developed worlds were left altered in our wake, their indigenous invaded by our consciousness and used to exact our directive. We took their minds, their bodies, their technology and their futures. We lived their lives and made them our own, neutralizing the remaining population once all of us had claimed hosts. Interstellar observers or others within the system would notice a sudden shift in law, organization, culture, even. Then the wars would start, the outliers neutralized. In the aftermath we were freed to continue our corporeal existence. 
 It wasn't long before we caught the attention of the Court of Enigmus. After all, we had taken over the bodies of their clientele and lived on a world that no longer called for scholar services. Once an active world went dark, they came to investigate, at first only confused by us not knowing who they were.  
 But it didn't take them long to recognize the patterns across other worlds. 
 We fled before they returned. Since stumbling into one of their galactic neighborhoods, we all came to know what kind of a threat they were to beings like us. And, slowly we came to know what kind of a threat we were to them. 
 The Chorus put as much distance from Vel'Haru stomping grounds as they could. We were a higher-order form of sentient life. Our invasion tactics were reflexive at this point, and went as followed: 
   
 PHASE 1 - SCOUTING  
 Our targets were selected by wave frequencies. If they had communications in any form, we traced them to their source and invaded their transmissions.  
 PHASE 2 - SYNAPTIC TAKE-OVER  
 Sound to neural wave alterations made large portions of the population break out in manic violence. The targeted world suffered intervals of inexplicable violence and anarchy until the state of their societal structure weakened.  
 PHASE 3 - HOST TRANSFERENCE 
 As the civilization's structure collapsed even further through war and eventually famine, we claimed the affluent members of their world—leaders, judiciary, theistic (if applicable, some worlds never had religion). Our incursion transmissions stopped and a reformation period began. Slowly we kept taking more and more hosts. Once transference was complete, we began our lives anew.  
   
 You weren't typically given a name in the Chorus. And if you were, it was either a really good thing, or a really bad thing. In my case it was the latter.  
 The Chorus, while not completely of unified mind, marched toward their directive, never deviating from that directive. Too long had passed since we had bodies and a world that was truly ours, and we had since shed any and all components of a flesh and blood race. We were immoral opportunists, mechanized instruments of subjugation.  
 Galactic parasites. 
 The others didn't like the name I'd given us, so they gave me a name. 
 Pariah. Outcast. I sang out of tune with our directive.  
 It was true I found this endless cycle of world ruination tedious. We didn't need hosts to progress as a civilization, in fact hosts only hindered us. We could let loose across the universe, screaming into the vacuum and find a higher purpose—somewhere waves were more abundant.  
 My proposition was blasphemy. My frequency was suppressed, weakened only to a whimper. And then I'd had enough. Might as well give some merit to the name they'd given me.  
 No one paid me any attention, figuring I would fade out. Suppression is a progressive form of death, a sentence they had deemed suitable for someone to suggest we stop ruining the futures of civilizations and try to find our place in Eversae Major where we could exist in our natural state. Now they out-amplified me until I was no longer part of the Chorus.  
 Instead I cried outward, targeting any sound, light, satellite, and digital transmissions in our vicinity. I surveyed information on worlds in our system, searching for databases, logs and communications that may help to hail a scholar.  
 Eventually I found a way.  
 At first Adrial and I spoke through digital communication systems on a non-descript planet under contract with the Court of Enigmus. We made plans. I betrayed my race and felt no guilt for it.  
 After a century-long wait, I was able to disrupt a phase-2 takeover by hijacking a host intended for a very important voice. I used the host to meet with Adrial's guardian, Aela, leading to an ambush of the Chorus by the Court of Enigmus. The battle was brief. I was the only one left, still in the host whose soul had moved on.  
 That night we watched fireworks as Emporia celebrated Melekonia's salvation from Chorus invasion. Adrial and I stood on a balcony overlooking the imperial city as crowds of survivors—having dealt with decades of social deconstruction through war—danced in the streets. There would be much to rebuild, and the previous phase had left radiation and genetic alterations. Their future would be messy and uncertain. But it would be theirs. 
 Adrial watched the fireworks and the crowds below in the streets as they mustered as much hope and happiness as a devastated world could.  
 "What are your plans now?" he asked. 
 "No plan," I said, knowing in order for the Chorus to truly be gone I, too, would have to die. 
 Adrial gave me an assured smile. "Then allow me to make one for you." 
 I kept the name Pariah. It was like an old suit I couldn't get rid of. 
   
 * 
   
 WE CAME BACK, and said nothing for a solid minute. I was surprised at how much the memories still stung, the immersion having made everything seem so fresh. Raw. 
 Sapphire and Zira studied me, their stoic façades wavering with revelation. I may not have proven much in the twelve Exodian years as a scholar, yet their expressions conveyed cognizance of my recruitment.  
 "So," began Zira, "just to clarify, that body isn't yours." 
 "It is now," I said. 
 "That was a very noble thing you did," said Sapphire.  
 "Noble? Well, that depends on whose perspective you're taking," I said.  
 Sapphire shrugged indifferently. "It's noble either way. The Chorus knew what they were doing was wrong." 
 "Galactic parasites aren't any different from biotic parasites," I said. "Could we call viruses or bacteria wrong?" 
 Sapphire looked away, annoyed. "You certainly can't take a compliment, can you?" 
 "If you didn't think it was wrong, why'd you step in?" demanded Zira. 
 That was a complicated question, and I didn't answer right away. Instead I gazed toward the opening of the hovel; the storm's intensity was fading somewhat. Then, I met Zira's awaiting stare. Our space was bereft of luminescence and his eyes shined soft-orange, like lamplight. For someone who had mocked the idea of empathic bonding, he seemed very interested in it now. 
 "Bacteria and viruses aren't inherently wrong," I began, carefully, "but the pathogenic kinds aren't good for their environment, either. We were infecting and destroying our environment. Some might argue for natural selection on a galactic scale, but then again my actions could also be merited as such. I lost count of how many worlds are gone because of us." 
 Zira nodded, intrigued. "You're a firm believer of mutualism-only, then?" 
 "The mutualism-only principle can't work all the time, but it should be everyone's aim," I said. "The storm is waning. Who's next?" 
 Zira still seemed reluctant. Sapphire bowed her head. "I'll go," she said. 
   
 *** 
   
 AN APPELATION OF COURAGE 
 Sapphire Dileesa 
   
   
 I WAS JUST A CHILD WHEN I learned that words held power. On Aurica Nau, language was everything. It wasn't what you said, but how you said it.  
   
 The first memory I had was joy. 
 I was mopping the antechamber's floor with a group of girls around my age. We sang a hymn of the faith while we worked, our already well-attuned voices resonating through the halls of the Voxial Priory. Our warden appeared in the entrance, hushing us, telling us recitals were in order elsewhere. We heeded her command, but giggled when she left to tend to our afternoon lesson plan.  
   
 The second memory I had was sadness.  
 I was sitting in Warden Ajina's office during weekly counsel. I was old enough now to wonder where I came from, knowing many of the children here were estranged from their families in one tragic way or another. Others were lucky enough to have family visit on resting days. No one ever came to see me. I asked why during the session. 
 "Dear child," said Warden Ajina, soft, sad. "If your family was still alive they would come see you, without a doubt." 
 My family—brother, mother, father—died when our house caught fire during the Raid of Thorns. They found me, barely out of infancy, amid the smoldering ruins. My family's corpses were charred beyond recognition, but I was perfectly intact. The fire had burned around me, they'd said. And when they tried to scoop me up and carry me away from the horrific scene, my screams made them drop me and cover their ears. 
 That was how I was brought to the Voxial Priory. I was marked by the faith, they said.  
   
 The third memory was reverence. 
 Reverence, because at the time I believed my talent was given to me by The Faith; I'd learn later that it was given to me by no one except for genetics, and it was as valuable a trait as having a terminal illness. Maybe worse. 
 But right then I was still reverent, just coming into early adolescence, eyes bright with hope for what the future might bring. A group of us sang for a crowd of thousands in the town square, in memorial to a viceroy who had passed the night before. There were wars beyond our borders; ones too complicated for my child mind to comprehend. But our songs soothed those able to better comprehend Aurica Nau's suffering, and I was happy that I could help in this way.  
 The voices of children were always considered soothing, but our voices offered more than just tranquility. We were of the Voxial Clergy; in possession of the Voice, gifted by the Faith. We were learned in pitch and frequency, tonal emphasis, words of power. One was born with the ability to influence others vocally, but only in priories could they hone their craft.  
 And our craft was typically used for mass-therapy. We sang, our youthful faces somber, as the crowd around us fell ataractic. Some people claimed that a 'Voxi' song was better than any drug Nau had. We sometimes were sent to hospitals, and sang songs to those poor souls in the throes of withdrawal.  
 Our songs could not perform miracles. If someone was suffering about one thing or another, our voices would knead their negative emotions—give them peace of mind, albeit temporary. 
 This was the memory which I held dearest. The cloudless sky, our hymn reaching up toward it in reverence to the Faith, the silent crowd entranced in a dopamine-fueled state, soothed of their fear of what the viceroy's death might bring to their town. The spiraling white towers bordering the town square shined in the sun like diamonds. I shined in the sun like diamonds, too. 
   
 The fourth was uncertainty. 
 There was a rumble from outside that shook the walls of the priory. We looked up, alarmed, as we held our recitations in our bedchamber. The silence that followed was deafening. 
 Warden Ajina was nowhere to be found. 
 Gathering enough courage to leave our room, we crept to the courtyard outside, casting our fearful eyes to the lightning-streaked sky and a massive black cloud looming over the horizon. Artillery echoed in the not-too-distance. Warden Anjina appeared then, waving her hands, motioning for the hills beyond the Priory. Her loose gown flapped violently in the mounting winds. 
 "Run, girls! Run to the tree-line!" 
   
 The fifth memory was loss. 
 I was forced to kneel in front of our new viceroy. My hands were shackled and I closed my eyes in defiance, licking at the blood on my lower lip. I had refused to speak until they hit me. I pledged my compliance to the viceroy's gnarled smile, all the while trying not to vomit from the image of my last true friend being shot in the head just minutes before. She had refused to speak, even when they hit her. 
 Warden Ajina passed away two years prior, after the invaders found us in the forest by the priory. She was shot in the chest at point blank while pleading for our lives and thrown into the river. Her body only drifted a dozen feet before catching on an overgrown root, floating there, face-down, in clear sight. 
 We spent the subsequent time in overcrowded camps where Aurican survivors were caged and guarded like cattle. The invaders erased our towns and cities and replaced them with their own. They looked like us for the most part but their features were slightly different, their color slightly different. From heresay within the camp the invaders were Nau Alliance dissidents from a system over, looking to stake their claim. Aurica Nau wasn't a popular place to visit and the least developed of the seven Nau worlds. I had never seen someone from another Nau.  
 Why us? 
 Soon the Nau invaders caught wind of the Voxial Clergy and the reputation they held. Around the world guards sought members of the Voice of the Faith that they'd initially stuffed into camps and executed in fear of being able to command an uprising. The period that followed was not a good one for the Voxial faith. Prisoners forgot all which we had done and started giving guards tips about suspected clergy within camps, and three times in a single year I watched as my friends were carried off, never to be seen again. I found safety in strangers, speaking little and keeping to myself. I often starved as a result of not joining any camp alliances, but it was better that than be found. When the guards finally came for me, they had another motive. Later on I wished I'd been executed instead. 
 Later was now, as I knelt in allegiance to a man who wanted me and the rest of the Vox Assemblage to help overthrow the Auricans' last line of defense. If we could make them feel good, he'd said in broken-Aurican, then we could make them feel bad.  
 I didn't want to end up like Talyse, my cellmate who'd refused to be an instrument of torture up until her brutal end. I revered her for the courage she had, but I was not courageous. I was a coward. To be clear I was not afraid of death, only the pain and suffering that led to death. Invaders killed us slowly. So in the face of martyrdom, I recoiled. 
   
 The sixth memory was shame. 
 I just made a man disembowel himself with a dull cooking blade.  
 He was a fellow Aurican, as only Auricans were affected by the Voice of the Faith. Invaders were immune due to the barriers of language and genetics. Cognitive evolution, they called it. Third-party surveyors from a neutral Nau world gathered on Aurica to collect data and observe cognitive evolution in its best example yet. In reality they stood by and watched my sessions apathetically as innocent Auricans were tortured and sometimes even killed, like now.  
 It had been five years since I pledged allegiance to the invaders—their identity and history now known to me but invaders I kept calling them—and the world looked nothing like I remembered it. All of our architecture and culture was scraped away like a loose scab. Bright, ivory towers were replaced by dull, gloomy megalithic pillars with flashing lights and abrasive noise. Large sections of forests had died off and others were mowed down for the invader's resource-fueling facilities. The only time I saw another of my own kind was during an interrogation.  
 Most of our kind were enslaved, although rebellions were still frequent and I was tasked with forcing suspected members of rebellious factions into giving the invaders information on their activities. Most of the time they told me anything I wanted to know in just a few short minutes. Sometimes they fought back and dragged things out for an hour or two. Sometimes they had to die because I'd applied every level of mental and physical pain possible and therefore it was deduced that no matter what, they wouldn't talk. Only talking prisoners got to live. 
 In the beginning, the interrogations that led to death were at least quick deaths, but now that the surveyors were here the invaders wanted to put on a sick sideshow, showing them all the horrible things that we could make each other do. 
 We were in a box-shaped room and I sat in a chair five paces from the dying man who breathed loud and wet against the floor. A blindfold was enforced because it was discovered that most voxial clergy suffered severe trauma from watching the horrors they performed. Repeated observations of brutal violence often made them prone to mental illnesses and therefore rendered useless by the invaders. Hearing my interrogations was still horrifying, but I was thankful for the blindfold; I wouldn't have made it so long without it.  
 I was shivering and my stomach churned violently. The man's breathing stopped and the door opened. I heard the invaders drag off the body and a hand pulled me to my feet. I was led out of the room, and after twenty paces down the hall my blindfold was removed. I was sent to my room to rest.  
 The shame was getting to be too much.  
 I wanted to burst. 
   
 The seventh was reparation. 
 Talyse, I'm so sorry.  
 I should have died with you. 
 I will make this right.  
   
 The eighth, and final, memory was peace.  
 I was decidedly broken by my handlers after four consecutive interrogations where I stopped the prisoner's heart in the beginning of each session. After the fourth mercy-killing, I rose from my seat and tore off the blindfold, looking through the large window at the audience. I locked eyes with a surveyor woman. She didn't look like the invaders or other Nau researchers; too pale, with strange-colored eyes, but she wore a surveyor uniform.  
 Her expression took me by surprise. A surveyor had never looked directly at me before. Her gaze was one of pity.  
 I hung my head and closed my eyes as the guards came to yank me away. The war was all but over and the invaders' thirst for blood ran dry. They would give me a swift execution.  
 But something happened that evening. The guards had thrown me in a windowless cell, however several hours later they returned me to my room. Their actions and body language showed reluctance.  
 I stayed locked up in that room for good. A guard brought me meals twice a day and the room was furnished like a laity's house. It had a large window with a perfect view of the ugly city, and I kept the curtain drawn most of the time. I was isolated for two rotations around our sun.  
 Again, reluctantly, they brought me a journal and writing utensils after the first few months. Then came stacks of books. Every fifteen days they would collect the books and leave more. What were they doing? And why? 
 My answer came two years later, when the door opened and someone entered my room. The sight of another person in my environment was so jarring that I initially backed away from the door. But then I saw the person and froze in confusion. 
 It was that surveyor woman from the last interrogation.  
 "It's time to go, Sapphire," she said in perfect Aurican. If not for her appearance I would have sworn she was a native.  
 "W-Where?" I stammered. 
 "Somewhere a lot nicer than this dismal place," she said, sweetly.  
 Could it be? Was there really something after this? 
 I took a step closer, cautiously. "Who are you?" 
 The surveyor smiled and headed for the hall. "My name is Aphasia, and I will be your mentor from now on." 
   
 *** 
   
 Pariah Andosyni—; 
   
   
 MY EYES CLEARED from the immersive fog, and they settled on Sapphire as she sat quietly across from me, gaze trained on her lap. I saw her in a new light. The reasoning behind her contempt for the Chorus was made crystal clear.  
 "Is that why you don't say much?" I asked, breaking the silence.  
 Sapphire nodded. "Words hold power, yet silence can be the ultimate level of strength." 
 "But you don't have to be quiet anymore," I said, and she looked at me thoughtfully, saying nothing. 
 "Why was Aphasia on Aurica Nau?" asked Zira. Even he seemed a little shaken from the experience.  
 Sapphire shrugged.  
 Zira scoffed in disbelief. "She never told you?" 
 "No, probably for my sake. I assume one of the neutral surveyor worlds entered into a contract with the Court of Enigmus." 
 "And what would you have done if Aphasia told you that she was contracted by the invaders?" he asked, solemn.  
 Sapphire was unruffled; where Zira had tried to evoke emotion, he'd failed. "What could I have done? Anything was better than there, and I was just grateful to be rescued. Even if I knew she helped them, I wouldn't care." 
 "The Court of Enigmus deals with morally-sensitive contracts all the time," I said.  
 "Like a loaded super-weapon, available for rent to the highest bidder," he muttered. Then to Sapphire, he said, "I thought your past wasn't tragic?" 
 "You think it's tragic?" asked Sapphire. 
 "I think it's the epitome of tragic, yes." 
 "I think it's life," she murmured. "I suppose to most it may seem tragic, but I was one of the fortunate ones. My pre-scholar history ended on a good note." 
 As Sapphire had said this, I looked up her world in attica. The Auricans had been extinct for eight hundred of their standard years; the Eroains (invaders) were also wiped out, but not before they'd cleansed Aurica Nau of its indigenous. 
 The wailing of the storm was all but gone, and the hovel filled with an acrid smell of burning gas. Zira had already taken notice of the change and was halfway to his feet. "Clear. Time to go." 
 "It's your turn," said Sapphire.  
 Zira frowned. "We're on a time-sensitive mission." 
 Sapphire didn't move. "It'll take less than a minute." 
 He looked to me for support. I gave him none. "You agreed to immersion. As Sapphi said, it'll only take a minute and then we'll be on our way." 
 Zira's eyes drifted from me and toward the ground. "You don't want to know. Trust me. No form of bonding can be gleaned from my memories." 
 "That kind of makes me want to know even more," said Sapphire. 
 "The bonding portion of this exercise isn't formed from our memories," I said. "The point is to make yourself vulnerable to us." 
 "This isn't a cognitive session," snapped Zira. "This isn't an exercise. This was us waiting out the storm and now the storm is over." Before we could object, he turned and marched out of the hovel. "Let's go." 
 Sapphire looked at me, and I at her, and then we both got up, having no choice but to follow him. 
 










 
 XIII 
 FINDINGS 
   
   
 Yahweh Telei—; 
   
   
   
 MY LIMBS WERE SHAKING WITH exhaustion. I had to lean against the desk to keep my knees from buckling. Although I tried my best to look fine, Adrial knew I was anything but. 
 "Yahweh, sit." 
 I surrendered to the fatigue and collapsed on the chair. My shoulders were stiff and achy. I hadn't used my wings for years prior, and likely wouldn't again for just as long. I kneaded an Archaean stone, using it to massage my palm as it shrunk smaller and smaller, its particles turning into my own. "Do you have something to drink?" 
 Adrial looked insulted. "Of course I have something to drink." He threw a package of malay cigarettes at my desk before he left, probably toward his office. I only stared at the pack until he returned to the pharmacy with a bottle of spirits and two oval cups. Aela remained in Euxodia to monitor the attica threads and comb others in an attempt to glean new information. 
 Leid was recovering in her room. I'd coated her wounds in medicinal balms and left a replenishing tonic beside her bed. It was hard to look at her. She had woken up as I'd tended to her and then sat silently, a defeated expression fixed on the door. Her knees were curled to her chest, hiding the bandages across her torso. I'd wrapped the stumps where her hands had been in breathable cloth, already stained pink as the regenerative process resumed.  
 I'd gently urged Leid to drink the tonic and then vacated the room, knowing good and well to leave her be. She didn't like anyone seeing her in such a weakened state, and had even refused to see Adrial.  
 Adrial poured us our drinks as I lit two malay cigarettes, handing one over and receiving a half-filled cup of spirits. The only background noise was the repetitive tick of a momentum cradle on a shelf behind us. I wanted to sleep forever. 
 "At least we're all still alive, I guess," mused Adrial. "I'm not sure how long Qaira has though." 
 I refused to believe that, even though logic said his outlook was bleak. After all this time, everything that had happened, now Qaira's life would end? "He'll pull through." 
 Adrial smirked. "You think? I give it another day before he insults them or tries to kill them and they put him down like a sick animal." 
 I froze, the glass halfway to my lips. "That's rather insensitive, don't you think?" 
 "I'm kidding. Sort of. I tend to hide my fear behind humor." Adrial ashed his cigarette. "But you have to admit there's at least a fifty percent chance that my prediction is accurate." 
 I shrugged lightly. "In terms of universal-causality, Qaira's an anomaly. For some reason, odds don't work against him." 
 "Everybody's luck runs out." Adrial sagged in his seat. "His idea was fucking stupid, and I told him so. I should have stopped him." 
 "There's no stopping him." 
 "Enigmus is less of a monarchy these days," sighed Adrial. "More like a ... committee." 
 I nodded, saying nothing, re-analyzing Qaira's most recent attica update.  
 It was chilling; not much was comprehensible. Our collective data-stream had apparently glitched. Entire thought-captures were illegible, marred with strange distortions that fractured our stream and scrambled our thoughts. No one was able to focus on the update entirely. 
 All that Qaira had managed to relay was something about universal theories and a shock collar. Needless to say, everyone was very confused. It didn't help matters any when he fell into stasis right after the archival. Either he was unconscious or dead; hopefully the former. 
 "Framers," I thought aloud, a soft whisper.  
 Adrial blinked. "What?" 
 I puffed on my cigarette, thoughtful. "They compared Leid to a group of people called Framers. They wanted to take her in for questioning, because they said she looked like them." 
 "The hunters?" 
 I nodded. 
 Adrial stared at me. "... And what?" 
 "You don't find that to be an odd thing to say?" I asked, quirking a brow. 
 "Of course I do. I thought you were going to follow that with a train of thought, is all." 
 "Mm." I ashed my cigarette and took my last sip of spirits. "I don't have one. Yet." 
 Adrial leaned back in his seat and rubbed his chin. "Well, I might have something." 
 "Do tell." 
 "It's established that Oraniquitis knew there was more to Exo'daius than our little island," he began. "She knew she needed wings to reach the rest of the world." 
 "Correct." 
 "But why?" 
 I tilted my head. "Is that rhetorical?" 
 "It's not rhetorical, since nothing's fact yet," he said. "However, I don't think she was in search of our progenitors. I think she knew our progenitors, and planned to kill them." 
 I leaned forward in my seat, the exhaustion all but gone. "You think we're descendants of the Framers." 
 Adrial shrugged. "The hunters said Leid looked like them. Our resonance is of this world, or universe, or whatever else it may be. We've spent eras trying to determine a match to the other half of our genetic code. Perhaps it wasn't in the Multiverse at all. Perhaps it was here." 
 "How would Framers manage to crossbreed with Rhazekan? From what I've seen and heard so far, they're a segregated bunch."  
 Adrial shook his head. "Haven't made it that far yet. All I know is that Oraniquitis was never the curious type. She was the vengeful type." 
 "Vengeful of what? The slaughtered anthropoids across the gorge?" 
 Adrial hesitated, lingering on that thought. He exhaled, slowly. "Yahweh, I think something like this has happened before. Oraniquitis must have run into these hunters, or Framers, and she planned to reclaim the Court of Enigmus and enter war with them." 
 I wasn't following his logic. "That's like an insect declaring war on a giant." 
 "At her strongest, Oraniquitis may have been something to fear. Proxies weren't the diluted types we are now." 
 "Neither is Leid," I said. 
 "What do you mean?" asked Adrial, furrowing his brows. 
 "She pulsed, here." 
 He said nothing, absorbing the news. 
 "Her metamorphosis has not only changed her eye color, but given her the ability to manipulate our environment."  
 Adrial looked away, bereft.  
 I prodded. "Were the proxies able to manipulate the environment, too?" 
 "I don't know," he muttered. "They didn't leave much before their children murdered them." 
 I sighed, the exhaustion having flooded back in. There was so much to postulate, yet my mind was having trouble linking thoughts. Adrial sensed this, easing up. "You should sleep," he said. "We can talk again when you're clear-headed. Take what you want from the kitchen. There's some salas and foche still left." 
 As I murmured thanks, a subtle flash behind my eyes signaled an update from the data-stream. The storm on Niaphali-X had ceased and Pariah's group was on the move once again. 
   
 *** 
   
 Qaira Eltruan—; 
   
   
 And then I was back.  
 Someone had stuffed my mind with razorblades. I grimaced, craning my neck in an attempt to lift my head. The area where I was (repeatedly) shocked was radiating pain like a third-degree burn. That collar was still there, its heat was still there. I thought to hold my head—to just curl up and die from how horrible this all felt—but then I realized that my hands were gone. 
 My hands were gone. 
 My fucking hands were gone. 
 "Please don't panic," said a female voice somewhere on my right. "Your situation is only temporary." 
 My eyes moved toward the sound. A slender woman was knelt at a type of furnishing that my multiversal dictionary had no term for. It was round and hollow, with buttons, or glyphs, or something. She was peering into it, seemingly at nothing.  
 The room was white and featureless, save for an intermittent cloud of what looked like butterflies with electric wings evanescing in and out of reality. Spheres also flitted into view, translucent, gelatinous. Inside of them were sparks, same as the butterflies. 
 I sat cross-legged on the floor, having been slumped over and unconscious until thirty seconds ago. These people didn't like furniture, whoever they were. The room was open, yet sparse. Nothing but us, butterflies and floating blobs.  
 The woman turned and gave me a smile. It was the kind of smile a hungry predator might make once they spotted a potential meal. The smile wasn't at me. It was for me.  
 She looked remarkably similar to us and other anthropoid species by which we were employed. Her eyes were catlike, each noble-silver iris streaked with blue lightning. She wore a black robe that was open at the front, a white and blue embroidered dress revealed her mid-rift. She was very slender; skeletal, almost. But bones didn't protrude through her skin like they would mine. Her bone density must have been non-existent. It looked so easy to snap her in half. 
 If only I'd had hands. 
 She walked toward me, but her movements made it look like she glided across the floor.  
 I didn't bother moving, only watched. She knelt several feet away, now close enough for me to see her teeth shine fluorescent, giving that smile a whole new level of fright. Her glittery eyes scanned my handless arms, severed halfway to the elbows. There was neither blood nor pain, as if reality itself had been hacked to edit out my lower extremities.  
 "You were dangerous without the modification," she explained. 
 Finally, I spoke. "What do you want?" 
 Her smile widened, nearly blinding me. "To learn."   
 "Learn what?" I demanded, feeling my upper-lip curl.  
 "How we affect you." 
 To this, I said nothing. 
 "I am Regalis Sarine-375, from Halon IV. My job is to keep your kind on the other side of our door. But you keep knocking, each time in a different form. It's like a fascinating arms race." 
 I had no idea what she was talking about. My expression gave my thoughts away. She frowned in evident disappointment. 
 "Do you not know where you're from?" asked Sarine. 
 "Not really, no." 
 Sarine blinked, although I nearly missed it because she lacked eyelashes. "What were you doing in the hunting grounds, then?" 
 "Okay, let's start this over," I said, aggravated. "What are you, what door are you going on about, and what do you think I am?"  
 She hesitated, studying me. The confusion in her expression melted slowly. "Your people don't teach your history?" 
 "I'm not talking until you answer my questions." 
 "You're not really in a position to make demands. I could deconstruct your consciousness, find out everything about you that way, though I figure you'd rather not have me excise your head from your shoulders." She gestured to the hollow circle thing in the corner. "But I've brought the instrument just in case." 
 Fuck. 
 "They're all gone," I said. "They died way before I came on the scene. We don't know where we came from, or how." 
 Sarine touched her right temple. Script appeared out of thin air beside her. They were codes that for some reason were indecipherable to me. Perhaps a higher-level form of encryption, or a data-integration device that translated brain waves into something tangible. "Who are you referring to when you say they?" 
 "The first ones," I said, watching the scrolling script with trepidation. "Our history died with them." 
 "How did they die?" asked Sarine. 
 "We killed them." 
 Sarine looked intrigued. "Why did you kill them?" 
 "Something about them being crazy and wanting to destroy everything they touched." At her befuddlement, I added, "I don't know, really. I wasn't there." 
 "Is your kind organized?" she asked. 
 "Depends on the context." 
 "Do you live in groups or are you scattered?" she elaborated. 
 I hesitated, unsure of whether or not this was information I should share. Then I glanced at the decapitated head trophy case. "Both," I said, and that was entirely true. 
 "How many of you are there?" 
 Time to blatantly lie. "Not sure." 
 A line in the script beside Sarine's head flashed brighter than the others. Her expression fell. "Who was the woman with you?" 
 "What woman?" 
 Another line flashed amid the code. I was starting to understand what was happening.  
 "The scouters that brought you here said a woman managed to kill four members of their team. A woman who you were protecting." Sarine wasn't smiling anymore. "Who is that woman?" 
 "I don't know what you're talking about. I was alone." 
 Another flash. 
 Sarine's hand fell to her lap. At the precise moment that her finger left her temple, all the coding disappeared. She leaned forward, lowering. Another screen blinked into reality, this one a videographic replay of the scene at the ruins from my point of view. It was like attica.  
 Just like attica. My eyes were cameras. My senses were script. My memories were telegenic.  
 And there was Leid on her knees with the spear through her stomach, screaming and reaching for me, with-scythe. Yahweh held her back, and she fought him. "Clearly she is important enough to protect," said Sarine. "I will ask you again. Who is that woman?" 
 "Kindly fuck off. Just take my head and get it over with."  
 And although fuck was not an actual word in the Exodian language, our lingual skills gave us the ability to translate communications based entirely on the meaning of words. Technically I was fluent only in Earthen and Nehelian languages, both of which were learned before my induction into Engimus. I spoke in Nehelian—and to me it sounded Nehelian—but what I said would be received fluently to another being in their native language. Needless to say, Sarine got my message loud and clear. 
 Sarine's expression went blank, and she stood. "This was disappointing. I was hopeful you'd be more complicit." 
 "Sorry to disappoint you. Now give me back my hands." 
 A tiny smile. "So you can use them on me?" 
 "Yes." 
 Sarine turned and headed to the other side of the room. A door carved itself into the wall in front of her. "You just need some time to think, is all. Yes, let's try that. Time is all you have now, anyway." 
 I started to rise but realized I couldn't move. Without hands, pushing against the crushing force that kept me seated was impossible. It was probably impossible either way. Sarine slipped out of the door and its outline disappeared. Everything went dark. Everything. 
 I was awake, but everything around me was... gone. I was in nothingness; a void. It felt like I no longer existed.  
 And that was terrifying. 
 










 
   
 XIV 
 DEATH OF AN OLD MACHINE WORLD 
   
   
   
 Pariah Andosyni—; 
   
   
 WE REACHED HERSTI, AN ALTRIAN TOWNSHIP to which Zira had led us by attica coordinates as the sun began to rise. We had trudged through the serrated forest all night, breathing the gaseous acidic air that smelled like rotten food, shivering in our armor as this backwards environment maintained a steady cycle of sublimation and condensation. The trees glistened with moisture as the air filtered the acidic gas, leaving aqueous liquid; remarkably the storm had nourished the flora. Not so remarkably, that meant the storms were frequent here. 
 Another oddity of this world was that the hottest point in the day was dawn, partially because of all the captured heat from the gases of the evening storm. Another factor was that its rotation around the sun was very elliptical and its axis was tilted on a leftward angle. Despite the abundance of frightening flora, we still hadn't come across any fauna, for which I was slightly thankful.  
 We arrived at Hersti uncomfortable and damp with sweat. There were no longer people here, that was expected, and the extreme erosion suggested their architecture wasn't accustomed to this weather. Since the township had been here for roughly two millennia, it was probable that the climate changed only within the last several hundred years. Any longer and this place would have been completely devoured by acid showers. I logged all of this into attica, marveling at what remained of murals on ceilings and walls of corroded abodes. The heat became too much and we took shelter in a relay tower by a crumbling transport station.  
 My skin welcomed the shade and I slumped on the remains of a stone bench as Sapphire and Zira scoured digi-feed monitors, buried in thick layers of dust. 
 "What are you doing?" I asked them. 
 "Trying to get some backstory," said Zira, checking dials and wiring below the panel.  
 "You'll never get a strong enough circuit that way," I said. "The interference from the climate won't let you, even if the wiring wasn't too far gone." 
 Zira cast me an irritated glance from over his shoulder. "Cynicism isn't welcome here." 
 "He's right," said Sapphire. "There's no way to get this back up." 
 "I'll take the DSD and we can extract it at Enigmus." Zira felt around for something across the control panel. 
 "DSD?" I repeated, confused. 
 "Data storage system," said Zira, his expression relaying duh.  
 I held out my hand. "Give it to me, I'll do it." 
 Zira stared; it was his turn to be confused. "Do what?" 
 "Extract it." 
 Sapphire smiled with revelation. Zira recalled my memories and smirked, tossing me the device. I caught it with a single hand and closed my eyes, getting a feel for its wave-pattern. 
 "He is going to prove so useful," I heard Sapphire tell Zira. 
  The Altrians were clever enough to have tapped into logic pool data storage systems. The systems themselves were weak but well-preserved due to gravitational waves and the high-conducing EM field of the planet. I dumped everything not corrupted into attica, translating it from Altrian logic-pool coding to the prose of our conscious stream. There was enough information to keep us busy for several hours, which was probably how long it'd take for the air to cool off anyway.  
   
 * 
   
 It'd all begun with some kind of probe, apparently.  
 Altrians were aspiring spacefarers, though they hadn't quite reached the level of technology capable of sending spacecraft out of their solar system, aside from non-sentient robots. They'd detected a foreign signal emitting low-wave frequencies between Niaphalis VIII and VII, and recovered what they believed to be a probe sending and receiving information, though its source was unknown and there was nothing further communicated on the subject.  
 Sapphire pointed us to research findings announced by their version of astrophysicists several years prior, relaying that the Aregoni Void had grown larger within the last decade. 
 Zira sidelined to the cosmological map surrounding their solar system. "Well, that answers that." 
 He was alluding to the fact that what they had called a void was actually not a void at all, but a cluster of galaxies occupied by the Ahahim Collective. To Altrian telescopes, nothing was seen because the Ahahim was an upper-echelon civilization, using all the energy of its stars, therefore blocking any light from reaching observers.  
 This system had been in their direct path of expansion; flesh and blood swallowed whole by an old machine race, the remnants of their makers stored in their sentient AI, three-fourths to immortality.  
 "Bad news," murmured Sapphire.  
 "Why?" I asked. 
 "Ahahim tech isn't something that deactivates easily," she said. "There could be sentries and who knows what else still guarding portions of their cities." 
 I winced. "Sounds fun." 
 "Regardless of the risk, they'll have something to get us to that moon," said Zira. "Spatial transference wasn't an Archaean-exclusive discovery." 
 Sapphire leaned on the jagged frame of the tower, surveying the ruins beyond. Heat waves swirled up from the ground as the sky was cast in blue iridescence. She sent a query for Ahahim chemical footprints in attica, requesting coordinates of the closest city. Hopefully it wouldn't be on the other side of the world. 
 "What happened to them?" I asked, clutching at debris to replenish.  
 Zira shrugged. "They moved on." 
 I confirmed in attica that the Ahahim was still an active civilization, though its population and colonized worlds had shrunk over the last several millennia. The oldest universe was growing sparse for resources, even in neighboring galaxies as stellar dust dissolved with its dying stars. "I don't suppose we can make a detour and grab a guide?" 
 Zira actually laughed. "They hate us." 
 "Why?" 
 "Because they can't kill us." 
 "I take it they've never contracted us," I said, sighing lightly. 
 "We don't get any contracts from Avadara," said Sapphire. "A lot of the damage done to this universe was caused by us." 
 I raised my brows.  
 "Not us," corrected Zira. "The proxies." 
 "Does anyone actually know why they wanted to destroy everything?" I asked. 
 Zira and Sapphire looked at each other, saying nothing. I took that to mean no. "We should rest a few hours," said Zira. "This heat won't leave until late morning." 
 I wouldn't argue; I'd been nearly cross-eyed since last night.  
 Without another word, Zira and Sapphire took to the floor—Zira leaned against the wall and placed his head between his knees, Sapphire curled on her side beside my bench. Apparently I wasn't the only one exhausted, which was relieving. 
   
 * 
   
 We all awoke at precisely the same time; attica had pinged a match to Sapphire's query, jolting us from our slumber. The intensity of the outside light had faded, and the air was significantly cooler. Late morning had come and gone, the sun having shifted to the other side of the sky. Mid-afternoon, perhaps. We'd overslept. 
 Zira cursed, realizing our mistake. He cursed again once we learned the closest city that attica could find was two thousand miles south. We had about eight hours before dusk, which may or may not bring another storm.  
 I was still trying to wake up, running a hand through my disheveled hair and then across my face. Even though we'd overslept, it still wasn't enough. I snatched a piece of eroded stone to replenish as the three of us regrouped at the tower entrance. Zira proposed that we run for it, stopping only when we needed to refuel. Sapphire and I agreed.  
 And so we were off.  
 Speeding through an unknown terrain was always risky; at our fastest we could reach the Ahahim city in an hour, but that also meant possibly launching ourselves off cliffs or running into (or more often through) objects because acceleration was inversely correlated to reaction time. We settled for a moderate speed; three hours still left us plenty of room.  
 We had to break more often than usual due to depleted resources. In terms of composition, rocks lacked nutrients with their low atomic weights and uniform lattices. Harder to break down and absorb; barely worth the reward. In this half-wasteland, half-nightmare fairytale, rocks were the only things available to us.  
 The scenery changed once again thirty minutes into our journey. All forms of vegetation ended and a geyser field began. Silhouettes of ruins could be seen in the distance, but it was clear that most of this world was unlivable, even for the Ahahim. Here the atmosphere had thickened enough to trap excess heat. We couldn't see the sun anymore; the sky was a pale-blue haze. Even for us it was too hot and there was no longer anything to regenerate with, but it was too late to turn back. 
 "The city will have metals," panted Sapphire, trying to keep us hopeful. Even Zira looked worried, and he never looked worried. I couldn't help but revere Sapphire for her stoic bravery. It was decided then that she was my aspiration. 
 Neither Zira nor I responded, but we acknowledged her encouragement and soldiered on. 
 It took closer to four hours to reach the city. We whirred through the fractured perimeter gate and dove inside the closest structure. The shade offered us a temperature a few kelvins lower. We came to a halt in varying presentations of exhaustion. Zira was on all-fours, retching from exposure. I didn't look much better. Sapphire logged our arrival into attica.  
 With all the talk of Ahahim being a top-tier civilization, the sight of their city was somewhat anticlimactic. They built upward instead of outward, its borders being a third of the diameter of the Altrian city. It consisted mainly of cylindrical and spherical edifices without any distinction of their function. Were they residencies, or stations, or shops? Who knew? Perhaps they were none of those, because a machine race wouldn't need the frills of an anthropoid society. In fact I couldn't even begin to fathom a culture whose gender, personal gains and mortality were all shed like old skin.  
 There weren't any murals to marvel at here, only smooth, metallic frames and concave interiors. The entire city felt lifeless and cold, like having been constructed but never occupied, which was probably intended. The metal itself seemed to have low-conductivity and heat-resistance. When scanned, attica relayed that it was 45% feherium and the rest ibthium, an alloy that I'd never seen. This was worthy information, and I archived it.  
 Rifling through information what was known of Ahahim architecture, the alloy was only used to build here. Probably to fortify their colonies from the weather; which meant they had been here sometime within the last several hundred years. That was disturbingly recent.  
 "How long did you say their security technology could last?" I asked, eyeing Sapphire.  
 It was clear she had come to the same deductions as me, as her expression was grave. "I didn't say precisely." Then, looking at Zira, she said, "A thousand years, give or take." 
 Zira returned her look, saying nothing.  
 "Well, we're certainly in for an adventure," I said.  
 In the center of the metallic floor was the indention of a circle, large enough for all three of us to stand inside. I thought it was just a strange marking, until Zira dug his fingers into it and pulled upward. He was strong enough to bend the thick sheet of alloy until it was angled 90 degrees at the radius. Not a marking. A door.  
 And then it clicked; this place was so bereft because most of their city was subterranean.  
 Zira gave Sapphire a nefarious grin. "Ladies first." 
 "You're going first," said Sapphire, frowning. "Account for your decisions." 
 He shrugged, unfazed by her stab and jumped down the hole without another word. I started next, but Sapphire grabbed my arm. "Stay behind me," she advised. "You aren't an adept of your senses yet." 
 "I take it you care whether I live or die?" 
 Sapphire looked down the hole. "Only you." 
 I really hoped that was sarcasm, but you could never tell with her. 
   
 










 
   
   
   
   
   
   
 ~*~ 
   
 2.2-4.18-S ATTICA wave sequence Bs9b2 
   
   
 -Machines came first. They took the entire population of Katekan underground. Investigations into the matter discovered large holes around the city perimeter.  Not a single person was left.  
 -Efforts to open the holes, covered by strange metallic seals proved fruitless. Diagnostics of the metal was taken to the central city to be analyzed.  
 - Then everyone started getting sick, and Katekan was forgotten. 
   
 Language: ALTRIAN (egosymsi dialect) 
 Personal Recording 234581-2 
 Source: Rehgonatta Medical Hub Transmission 
   
   
   
 










 
   
 XV 
 RESOUND 
   
   
 Yahweh Telei—; 
   
   
   
 I SHOULD HAVE BEEN MORE ASTOUNDED when Leid's hands had completely regenerated by the time I saw her later that morning. Instead I'd grown used to these types of surprises, only pausing briefly from my Altrian and Ahahim research when she entered the Apothecary, lingering in the doorway, as if waiting to be welcomed inside. 
 My eyes settled on her healed, un-bandaged hands and I said, coolly, "You seem better." 
 She took that as an invitation and sat at the other end of the desk. Nothing was said for half a minute, until I cocked my head and lifted a brow. "Can I... assist you with anything?" 
 Her gaze lowered briefly. "You were right." 
 "About what?" And, with a tiny smile I added, "Also, which time?" 
 Surprisingly, Leid returned the smile. I hadn't seen her wear one like that for a long time. "I shouldn't have kept anything from you. I'm sorry. This was all my fault." 
 "It wasn't all your fault," I said, sympathetic. "We agreed to go, just like you." 
 She lit a cigarette, and I twitched in irritation. Leid's cigarettes were not malay, but a foul-smelling, cough-inducing type from Earthen worlds. Although my expression was evident, Leid ignored me and continued to pollute my place of business.  
 "Will you be honest with me now, then?" I asked. 
 "Yes." 
 I left my research and opened up the Framer/Hunter thread. Leid felt the switch; her eyes narrowed as she realized what I was planning to do. She didn't object, however, as she also knew that any and all information she was about to give me would be valuable to us in one way or another. "Would you like to be the editor, or should I?" 
 "Go ahead. You deserve the credit." 
 I nodded, sat back, and waited.  
 Leid hesitated, sucking on her cigarette. "For the record, I haven't talked about this until now because it was neither relevant nor did I feel like burdening anyone with phenomena that I couldn't explain, let alone describe in a comprehensible way." 
 "Burdening us?" I asked. "By making us aware of a situation we could have helped you to better understand?" 
 "I don't want to be an outlier anymore," she said. "I don't want to be the cause of your concern." 
 I was taken aback by that confession. She looked away as her façade cracked. "You're not an outlier," I said, carefully. "You're our Queen, before that my advisor, and before that, my friend. You're not in control of anything happening right now, so don't blame yourself." 
 "Leid, you need to let everything go," said Adrial, appearing in the room. I thanked him with my eyes for the backup. "Stop holding it all in. That type of defense mechanism has never helped our situation." 
 "We're all here for you," I said with newfound courage. "We don't see what you've become, only you. It's always been you." 
 The Apothecary went silent. Leid lowered her head, shifting uncomfortably. Our attention remained on her, awaiting a response, reaction, anything. 
 "I get it," she murmured, finally. "I'm sorry." 
 That was all we could expect from her.  
 Adrial moved behind Leid's chair and placed a hand on her shoulder. She pressed her cheek against it, closing her eyes. "Don't apologize, just let us help you." 
   
 * 
   
 It took Leid upwards of twenty minutes to explain everything. Not all of it was coherent, especially the part about seeing electric butterflies everywhere, and I found myself glancing at my supply cabinet to make sure there weren't any hallucinogens missing.  
 She explained the cyclic nightmares that had led up to her touching the thread on the gorge, the visions she'd seen of the massacre at the ruins through the eyes of a mysterious victim, and the crushing anxiety from coming to terms with the notion that she was connected to whatever the Framers were.  
 "They have him," she said, her voice quivering. "They have him and will question him about me." 
 "Qaira won't give you up," assured Adrial. 
 "Of course he won't," she snapped. "They'll realize after many brutal, lengthy torture sessions that he won't ever talk, and then they'll kill him." Leid crossed a leg and lit another cigarette, evidently distressed. "These things have been hunting us and others like us for who-the-fuck-knows how long. They'll come for the rest of us eventually." 
 "Which begs the question why they haven't found us prior," said Adrial.  
 Leid only shook her head.  
 "Zira and the others are making progress on their mission," I said. "There's a very strong chance we'll find answers to our questions soon. Right now we can't do anything except for wait. No information, no plan." 
 "Qaira could be dead at any moment," said Leid.  
 That was true, and I could empathize with her frustration of feeling so helpless. Leid was not the helpless type. None of us were. 
 Aela appeared in the doorway. All of us looked toward her. 
 "It's officially a party," muttered Leid. 
 "Come and look at this," she said, gesturing toward the hall. "All of you, now." 
 Sensing the urgency and fear in Aela's voice, we all moved to follow her. Confusingly she led us outside, into the courtyard. I knew what she was going to show us almost immediately. My attention rose to the sky, now presenting a visible, red sun. It was almost set, and dusk was falling over Exo'daius. The sight made me stagger.  
 "Look at the grass," urged Aela.  
 It had grown past the ankle of my boots.  
 "Okay," Adrial breathed, clearly shaken. "Keep the mind-fuckery coming, then." 
 I froze, paralyzed with revelation. "It wasn't a trap." 
 I'd said that so quietly that only Leid, stationed beside me, could hear it. "What do you mean?" 
 "It was a shield," I said, hands to my forehead, pacing along the path. "There was some kind of shield around us that manipulated time."  
 Now I had everyone's attention. Once I'd finally gathered my thoughts, I said, "We think the thread Leid touched was some sort of trap left to alert the hunters of our presence. But now that it's gone our realm is presenting time-affected phenomena." 
 "Like any other place," stated Aela, reeling. "Exo'daius is a physical world with physical properties." 
 "So you're saying Enigmus was frozen in time," Adrial said, still trying to grasp my conveyance. "Leid broke the shield, and now we're—" 
 "Exposed," Leid said, her expression darkening with cognizance. "That was why they couldn't see us before. We were cloaked." 
 "By whom?" 
 Leid tapped her chin. "It must have been the proxies." 
 That backed up Adrial's notion that Oraniquitis and her ilk had crossed paths with the Framers and subsequently built defenses against them. Whether or not Framers were our genetic donors was yet to be determined. 
 Before anyone could respond, attica sent a ping from an automated update. It wasn't from any of us; instead a new location was archived and an addition to the multiversal map was created. Our location was found, which blinked softly at coordinates on an otherwise uncharted grid. 
   
 EXO'DAIUS , HALON IV, alpha-INSIPIA 
   
 










 
   
 XVI 
 TO HALCYON 
   
   
 Pariah Andosyni—; 
   
   
   
   
   
 THE TUNNEL SYSTEM WAS PITCH BLACK AND stank of mold and rust. The smell took me off guard and made me re-think a few of my theories behind the Collective timeline. Of course drainage systems couldn't have been maintained, so it was possible that the rot was due to abandonment, but what upper-echelon civilization wouldn't build something to last at least several hundred years? 
 But this was neither the time nor place, so I kept those questions to myself. 
 Our gait was no longer confident. Though we could see just fine in darkness, most forms of security machinery had senses on par with ours. The tunnel wound every fifty feet or so; and at each bend we slowed, pressing our backs to the rotting walls, waiting for the tiniest indication that we were not alone.  
 The tunnel opened into some sort of bunker. Another surprise came in the form of paper documents scattered along tables and seating arrangements akin to anthropoid societies. Zira grabbed a sheet off a chair, skimming its contents. "Why is there an Altrian fort below a Collective city?" 
 I shrugged. "If you don't know, I certainly won't." 
 "Keep the flattery coming," said Zira with a scoff, reading the sheet one more time. His brows furrowed. "This is in military format." 
 "An underground base?" offered Sapphire. 
 "Yeah, must be." Zira threw the sheet aside. "Who do you think came first?" 
 "What do you mean?" I asked. "The Collective were the last on this world." 
 He regarded me with smug authority. "If that were true, all of this stuff would have rotted away by now. Attica reads a footprint of 2.4 parts Arogian-10. This was here at roughly the same time as the Collective city." 
 I picked another sheet up, taking a look for myself. It was largely illegible from sitting in a damp room for centuries, but what I could make of it confirmed Zira's notion. "Well, who doesn't love a good plot twist?" 
 "I guess we don't have to worry about sentries," said Sapphire. 
 "I wouldn't be so sure," said Zira. "There's no telling how these people died, or where there bodies went." 
 A chill descended my spine. "We should probably get a move on, then." 
 Zira nodded to the only door left ajar, which revealed the entrance to another tunnel. "I'll lead the way. Telepathy-only from here on out." 
   
 * 
   
 The more we explored, the more we realized just how complicated this planetary take-over was. It wasn't a simple sweep; digifeed DSDs revealed that the Collective were at war with Altrians for centuries. The indigenous took to the underground after world-reconfiguration began. They sabotaged Collective progress through guerrilla warfare. Astoundingly, the Collective cut their losses and left. The price of owning Niaphali-X far outweighed the reward. 
 There wasn't a single automated security machine sighted in the hour that we'd scoured bunkers and tunnel systems. I was beginning to ease up, paying more attention to the little details of our surroundings. Beneath the structural rot there was something else; genetic markings. DNA. Blood. My sight switched to organic remnants only. 
 There were Altrian DNA markings all over the walls and furnishings. It was clear from the fluorescent streaks and erratic splatters that things did not end well for them.  
 Sapphire offered a sad conclusion moments later. 
 —The Collective must have left with the intention of returning after their enemy died off. The air was toxic, the land riddled with killing machines; it was only a matter of time. They died a slow, painful death.  
 —And why didn't the Collective return? I asked. 
 —That happens sometimes. They find another world with better resources or they leave the system entirely, said Zira.  
 —Seems like a waste, I said. 
 —Depends on whose perspective you're looking at. To the Collective, the Altrians were nothing more than clever pests living in a giant field awaiting harvest. Survival of the fittest applies to the universe, too, said Sapphire. 
 —Thank you for that sobering piece of logic, I said. 
 —You're welcome.  
 —Wait. Listen. Zira halted our thoughts. 
 There was a faint sound coming from somewhere beyond the room. By now we had made it to a fifth bunker, having traveled an estimated five or six miles. This place was big, and at one point fortified. From a pitch-black southern corridor, the sound of skitters and wet noises perforated the otherwise dead silence. 
 We all shared a daunted look. 
 Zira and Sapphire crouched simultaneously, cuing me that stealth was now necessary. I did the same, and we crept toward the corridor. The noises grew louder as we made our way ever so slowly down the hall, peeking behind a closed door on the right. I switched my view over to organic markers once again.  
 There was a huge mass of fluorescence beyond the door. It was so bright that I almost had to look away. 
 —Hold on, I tried to warn them, but Zira kicked the door in, having seen the same as me. 
 Beyond the door was a walk-in pantry stocked with dehydrated foods. The dampness of the corridor had turned the food into bloated sacks of bacteria, and the stench hit me hard—; 
 But not harder than the sight of the body on the floor.  
 At first I thought it was moving, but then saw the insect-like machines, crawling in and out of numerous orifices, making ripples across gelatinous, translucent skin. It was an Altrian corpse, but I saw its chest heaving for breath and heard the gurgling wet noises from somewhere inside its mangled face. Confusion quickly settled in, disgust soon after. 
 The machines were keeping it alive.  
 Perhaps 'alive' was too strong a word. 
 And then it started twitching.  
 Zira slammed the door shut and we backed away, slowly. 
 "They won't come for us," said Sapphire, breathless. "The Collective programmed them to be Altrian-specific." 
 Zira grimaced. "That doesn't mean I want to keep looking at it." 
 "So, that was their parting gift to the Altrian survivors," I said. "Talk about kicking a person while they're down." 
 "I don't want to know anymore," muttered Zira, resuming down the corridor. "Let's just get out of here." 
   
 * 
   
 The further we walked, the more sophisticated the technology became; manual doors turned automated, ibthium lights and grime-covered televised screens adorned the walls. Their tech had been convenient for them, but not us—now we had to cleave through passages with our scythes. No power, no automation. This slowed us down considerably. 
 After a little more than twelve hours of exploration, we made it into the final sector of the passage. The narrow tunnel opened into an underground waystation two floors high, inactive computing systems lining rows of panels within the center of the ground floor.  
 We jumped when the lights turned on and strange sounds (which I quickly presumed to be Altrian music) played from muffled, half-functioning speakers on the walls.  
 One of the computing screens flickered on, casting an eerie glow against the wall. The music and lights continued to stay active. Nothing else happened for a minute, and we relaxed. 
 "Motion sensitive," I deduced, glancing at the lights. "There must be a generator of some kind in here." 
 "Still functional, after so long?" asked Sapphire, incredulous. 
 I shrugged. "If they're only activated by someone entering, I imagine the system hasn't used much of its power reserve." 
 Zira stood in front of the blinking computer screen, his expression puzzled. "Come and look at this." 
 Sapphire and I took Zira's side. The screen showed a single line of Altrian script, blinking repeatedly: 
   
 YOU ARE ON THE ROAD TO HALCYON... 
 PROCEED? 
   
   
 Halcyon. Sounded nice, but the cadence of our journey so far suggested it would be anything but. I pressed a flashing button on the panel below the screen. Zira and Sapphire looked at me like I'd just detonated a bomb.  
 A door on the left side of the room slid open. Darkness awaited us through another narrow passage. The screen changed its script. 
   
 PLEASE REPORT TO THE PRIMING FACILITY. THEY ARE EXPECTING YOU. ALL POTENTIAL ASSENTERS MUST VERIFY THEIR CONSENT PRIOR TO NEURALTRANSFERENCE. 
 MAY YOU RISE IN PEACE. 
   
 "How foreboding," said Zira.  
 I didn't respond, still trying to determine how neural transference, verified consent and rising had anything to do with going to a place called Halcyon. 
 "Halcyon isn't a physical location," said Sapphire, eyes trained on the screen. "In fact I think it's some kind of euthanasia instrument." 
 "Last resort, eternal utopia-like rhetoric?" asked Zira, brow lifted. "Altrians didn't have any religion, nor were they culturally spiritual." 
 "The end of a world can do that to an irreverent civilization," said Sapphire, somber. "You just want the suffering to end. If there's a chance that a higher existential plane exists, that's just an added bonus." 
 Zira hesitated, considering Sapphire's explanation. Despite their decades-long feud, they seemed to harmonize well; their debates were more of an exchange of ideas built on top of each other. Zira's behavior had changed ever since he'd learned more of her. No longer did he take everything she said merely with a grain of salt, but with a mountain. A second later he looked back at the screen, deflated.  
 "There's nothing here," he sighed. "Do we keep going in hope of finding another way above ground, or turn back?" 
 We mulled over the options. "Turning back loses us a day, guaranteed," said Sapphire. 
 "I agree," I said. 
 "Onward, then," said Zira, heading for the open passage. Quietly, he added, "May we rise in peace." 
   
 * 
   
 We had only walked ten minutes down the passage when an attica automated update invaded our minds. We thought Qaira or Adrial had added something new to the active threads.  
 No, this was a multiversal map addition. Judging by the others' expressions, such an update was not a frequent occurrence. 
   
 EXO'DAIUS , HALON IV, alpha-INSIPIA 
   
 ... Was that our headquarters? Attica found our headquarters? 
 I was so immersed in this discovery that I only heard Zira shout to stop and look after he'd said it three times. I froze, but it was too late, flinching as a click beneath my foot announced I had just stepped on a glyph-panel. The passage was bathed in light and we squinted from the sudden and intense stimulus. A bright, golden beam framed both walls and an Altrian synth-voice warned no one of sequence-anomaly intruders. 
 Just as I realized that we were the sequence-anomaly intruders, a giant explosion erupted from beneath the glyph and I was propelled into the ceiling. I felt my neck snap, and then I felt nothing, not even when I landed face-first on the cold metal floor.  
 The warnings faded, replaced by a hiss of multiple sliding doors. Zira dragged me from the unfolding scene as Altrian sentries stepped out from numerous panels that we'd previously thought were just part of the corridor walls. None of us had thought to switch views to an electrical grid, and robotic AIs held no biomarkers or heat signatures while dormant.  
 I caught a glimpse of my body while being pulled backward and found that I no longer had legs, just two oozing stumps; one thigh-length, the other knee, leaving smears of blood along the floor. My screams (I had been screaming the entire time but didn't realize it, nor recognize it as it was a sound I'd never thought myself capable of making) abruptly died as my vision tunneled and shock quickly settled in. The tunnel behind my eyes closed in, and I fell into stasis as the thunder of artillery and shouts of my companions dropped into distant echoes—; 
 Darkness, silence. 
 










 
   
 XVII 
 A NON-CONFORMING EVENT 
   
   
   
 Regalis Sarine-375—; 
   
   
   
 LELAIN WAS STARING AT ME AND I was having none of it. It was bad enough that I had nothing to show Authority after days of interrogations; I didn't need his condemnation, too.  
 He wanted to kill that Vel'Haru.  
 I wanted to break him. 
 And I would, given enough time. But time was a currency outside of my control.  
 Per standard operating procedure, all non-conforming events of the Breach were to be reported at once to Authority. The term 'non-conforming' was used for any event not going according to plan. Like the Vel'Haru surviving.  
 The theme for the room was chosen by Regalis Adon-875 of Halon I. Across every wall was a glimpse of swimming flora, made to look like we were at the bottom of a magenta ocean. I recognized the scenery to be from his native system. It was pretty, if a bit distracting.  
 So was Adon, with his blue-streaked hair and scintillated paint on his jaw and eyes. Last cycle he had been female and it was difficult adjusting to the new body. Four other Regals stood around the Grid-cast in the center of the room. Lelain stepped aside as I completed the circle. We were but a small portion of the Framer Authority, yet having four galactic Regals attending my NCE announcement was overkill already.  
 "Sarine," greeted Genzophi-155, Regalis of Halon III. "I can't say I'm excited to be here. What news do you bring?" 
 "I've already updated the Breach ephemeris," I said, smiling warmly, for they needed some warmth with what I was about to tell them. "But it has been found that the dissenter-variant known as Vel'Haru was not exterminated ten thousand system years ago, as reported in the ephemeris." 
 "The cross-breeds from Philo?" asked Adon.  
 "Yes," I said. "They have been living in the Breach, cloaked by a time-stasis code that evaded Grid's surveillance." This was not easy to admit, as I was very good at my role and usually NCE meetings weren't led by me. That was why so many Regals had attended. "The code was broken a week ago, and not by us." 
 "If not by you, then who?" asked Genzophi. 
 "I don't know yet, but I will soon. For now, I have a working theory." My eyes settled on the Grid-cast and I displayed the woman at the lost Fehe'zin colony. "Once the code was broken, Khilikri scavengers tracked their activity here. They were a group of twenty-two. She killed four of them with a telekinetic attack." 
 "Her arms..." murmured Adon, amid the murmurings of others. "And those eyes. That isn't classic Vel'Haru physiology." 
 "Not monstrous enough," added Genzophi. "What is your theory, Sarine?" 
 "My theory is that they have evolved since we've seen them on Philo in Simulation-1, and she broke the code. Unwittingly, probably—an underling I've captured says they have no knowledge of us or their ancestry." 
 "You have one?" asked Adon, intrigued. 
 "Yes, but he isn't compliant with any of my critical questions. He doesn't know much about himself, but he knows that we are a threat." After a moment of silence, I added, "The harder I press, the angrier he gets. I was nanoseconds away from killing him and he called me a 'gaping cunt' and that he 'didn't need any hands', he'd 'peel my face back with his teeth.'" 
 "At least their savagery hasn't changed," said Genzophi.   
 "He is useless, Authority," injected Lelain. "He should die and Halon IV should cleanse Exo'daius." 
 "I disagree," I said, smiling again. "We don't know the level of threat that the island carries, not with her still free." I gestured to the Grid-cast. "Others may have ascended genetically as well. The underling, known to them as Ky-ra, is important to that woman, evidently. Let's dangle him on a thread and wait for her to come to us." 
 Lelain already knew that they would side with me. His irritation was evident despite the inscrutable look on his face. That was the telling point. "I have been doing some of my own research," he said, catching me completely off-guard, "and it appears there is Vel'Haru activity in Simulation-1, Avadara. More curiously there are dissenter code fragments near their current location." The Grid-cast switched to the map of Simulation-1, providing evidence to his claim. "Let us at least send an envoy to investigate and perhaps communicate with them." 
 "Communicate what?" asked another Regalis.  
 "Find out their intentions. They may not know anything about us, Authority. Once we find that out, then we know they have not planned defenses against us." 
 "I retract my objection against my partner," I said, acknowledging his brilliance. "But I still wish to hang on to the Vel'Haru captive. There is much yet to glean from him and he provides us with a secondary option." 
 After very little thought, Authority motioned us to follow through with both of our proposals. Lelain took this victory emptily, as his prime objective was to kill my hostage. The entire NCE made him uncomfortable; and anything that made him uncomfortable, he erased. I would try to sway his opinion later on, for now we spoke informally and discussed current events within the Halon Supercluster. 
   
 * 
   
 "You should have told me of your findings," I said when we reached our vault some hours later. "I would have listened, you know." 
 "I know," said Lelain, thinking up a forest theme across our aperture panes, like something you would find from a Khilikrian world. The space within the room was filled with painted winged insects surrounded in red luminescence. Red like the coiled sparks within his eyes. "That wasn't why I brought it to Authority." 
 "I know," I said, drinking a stasis tonic from the dispenser that had molded up from the floor. I handed him some, and he took the drink with a cumbersome gaze. "Which Framer do you think will volunteer to be the envoy? None of us have entered simulations since our tenth cycle. That's like going out into uncharted territory without any comfort of knowing the code or feeling a basewave." 
 "I will be the envoy," he said.  
 At first his answer didn't compute. "You risk your existence, and for what?" 
 "For us. Your feelings are showing, Sarine." 
 "Your feelings are showing," I said. "You don't have to be the envoy, we can send someone else." Anyone else.  
 "No one else will go. The Khilikri won't return to the Breach. I'm sure by now word has spread that a 'Framer' roams the hunting grounds, and no reward is grand enough to change their minds."  
 Lelain wasn't a subordinate, but a peer. Framers held each other in equal regard; the only aspect separating us was our roles. I couldn't tell him not to go, as he believed such a martyrdom was necessary in observance of the Codemaker's Law. Others would, too, out of relief that it wasn't them. I had no choice but to support his decision. 
 He moved into stasis a little while later. I was too restless for reconstruction just yet; instead I changed our aperture theme to a panoramic view of the Aephon Nebula and reanalyzed Grid-data. There was a question nagging at me for some time now. It was something I knew the Vel'Haru named Qaira could answer, but he wouldn't talk. Not with our current methods. 
 Lelain had dismantled me; it was time that I dismantle him in return. 
   
 *** 
   
 Qaira Eltruan—; 
   
 The cycle of interrogation and nonexistence was finally taking its toll. I was going mad; I knew as much because I started hearing Leid in the darkness, in the void. At first she called to me in whisper, as if she were hiding from something.  
 Then, her voice grew louder. I couldn't see and didn't respond, knowing she wasn't real. This wasn't the first time that I'd seen or heard things, and occasionally I still did—I was just able to fight it now. Fight myself. 
 A spotlight flickered on several feet away, and suddenly I was sitting on a concrete floor. I was real again, and squinted at the light, preparing for that Framer bitch to pull me out for round fifty. Instead, I saw Leid. 
 She was wearing Exodian armor and her forearms were completely healed. That wasn't possible—not from how I'd seen her last.  
 "Qaira?" she called, searching the room. I found that odd, considering I was right in front of her. If this was a hallucination, it was remarkably vivid. 
 "Here," I rasped. Might as well indulge my psychosis; there was nothing better to do. 
 At the sound of my voice, she spun. We locked eyes. Hers widened.  
 "Qaira, where are you?" she asked, frantic. "What is this place?" 
 Realization set in. Her demeanor and the pertinence of her question informed me this wasn't a hallucination. "I don't know. I can't even begin to describe it. How did you find me?" 
 "Through attica. I was able to... access you." 
 I hesitated, unsure of what that meant exactly. "Can you find my coordinates?" 
 "No, your section of the map is unreadable. There's too much interference." 
 "Interference from what?" 
 "Qaira, I-I-I—" Her form flickered, like a hologram. "I'm coming for you. Do you hear me? I will find you, just pl-pl-please stay alive. Do whatever you must." 
 Before I could respond her body winked from existence, the spotlight along with it. The void returned, weighing heavier than before.  
   
 * 
   
 And then I was suddenly seated at a table—in an actual chair this time—surrounded in white walls, amid electric butterflies. Sarine sat across from me, expressionless. Her hands were folded on the table, a very anthropoidal gesture, but I noticed there were faded lines along her fingers and palms. The lines were like the kind generated from puzzle pieces, like she'd been assembled.  
 That startling discovery played second fiddle to the fact that I had my hands back. I, too, folded them on the table. She'd begun this sequence as if we were in deep conversation.  
 I said nothing to Sarine and, despite my thoughts, didn't react. I just stared at her, and she at me.  
 "Lelain thinks you should die," she said, monotonal. "Do you think you should die?" 
 "Who's Lelain?" 
 "My partner." 
 "You're not asking the right question," I said. 
 Sarine looked intrigued. "And what do you think the right question is?" 
 "Do you think I should die?" 
 Sarine hesitated, blank-faced. I couldn't help but smirk. "I assumed that was clear from my initial question. If the vote was unanimous, you wouldn't be here." 
 I nodded, considerate. "Then let me paraphrase the question. Why don't you want to kill me?" 
 "Because I value the information that you have," she responded without as much as a beat. Her chrome-ringed, blue-electric eyes held me like dual lenses. "I will admit that you and your kind might be one particular crossbreed worth ... watching." Sarine unfolded her hands and resettled them in her lap, out of view. "Rather than cleansing." 
 Crossbreed. "And what do you want in return for such mercy?" 
 "Tell me of you. Of what you know of yours; how you live, how you operate, your purpose." 
 I looked away, relaxing my shoulders, exhaling slowly. "For what?" 
 Sarine abruptly left the table and walked to the right side of the room. The enclosed, blank space was lit up with swirling cosmos. It was as if we were in a tiny glass cube, surfing the outer edges of a galactic supercluster. Given what I'd seen of this place so far, there was a chance it wasn't an illusion. I had a hard time hiding my awe—and confusion, considering I didn't recognize this place and superclusters were something with which I was very familiar.  
 "This is the Halon Supercluster," explained Sarine, indicating that I hadn't saved face well enough. "There are over four million galaxies contained here." 
 "And you're from Halon IV," I recalled.  
 "So are you," she said.  
 To this, I said nothing.  
 The room was launched into some kind of warp speed. I actually gripped the table edges, expecting to be thrown across the room. But it remained still, even as streaks of colored light and time bent across the walls. An illusion.  
 No, a stream. 
 We stopped, suspended in panoramic view of a small, reddish-brown planet mottled with an orange and white atmosphere. A label next to the planet appeared, blinking thrice: 
   
 EXO'DAIUS , HALON IV, alpha-INSIPIA 
   
   
 Another universe. 
 Holy fuck, another universe. 
 I said that thought aloud, leaving the table to get a closer view. Sarine moved behind me, and although I couldn't see her face I knew she was smiling. Her teeth flashed from over my shoulder. "The first universe," she said, matter-of-factly. "The organic universe."  
 That made me turn and face her. "Come again?" 
 Sarine's smile frosted over, then waned. For the first time she wore an unpracticed expression. "And here is where we come to an agreement, Qaira." 
 I lifted a brow. "Go on." 
 "I offer an exchange of information. I'll tell you everything about us, and you only have to reciprocate."  
 When I hesitated her smile warmed, like I didn't know what she was up to. I was about to hold Leid to her word; hopefully she would find me before I revealed anything fatal.  
 "It seems curiosity is something we have in common," I said, in my own way of surrender. 
 "We have much more in common than that." 
 I nodded. "You first. Start at the organic universe part." 
 "I've been generous enough already. It's hard to trust someone who, not a day ago, was screaming out my death warrant." 
 I snarled. "Which was a perfectly reasonable reaction to being dismembered. You're the one with something to lose here." 
 "That's an amusing claim." 
 "We're about to dance with daggers, right? Which of our information will prove most fatal? Which of us will find the other first?" I scoffed. "What can my knowledge possibly do to you?" 
 "... Are you attempting to incite pride?" 
 "Only if it's working." 
 Sarine looked at the image of Exo'daius. Our room was then returned to the supercluster. "Very well. I will start, if only to stop wasting any more time."  
 










 
 ~*~ 
 HYMN OF THE MULTIVERSE 
 APHORISM I 
   
   
   
   
 Regalis Sarine-375—; 
   
   
 IT ALL STARTED WITH A SOUND. 
 Through the darkness—the vacuum—came a cry that resonated across time and space, as time and space awoke precisely as the cry erupted. It was the cry of alpha-Insipia, like a newborn calling out for warmth. And like a parent, the universe's cry was nurtured with matter, heat, light... 
 We were born on a little world, just a grain of sand in the desert of our universe. Our story is most likely your story too, as every path to progression climbs the same ladder. We learned to manipulate our world, cultivate its energy, lavished ourselves with language and art and science, until we no longer recognized our savage ancestors who had shivered naked in the darkness, evading predators. 
 As time progressed, like it always does, our eyes turned toward the stars. Two millennia later, we dominated our little galaxy, having overcome any great filters of which other worlds may have faced and subsequently perished. We had broken free of our mortal chains—brainwaves turned to code, to recyclable data, our bodies barely organic anymore—but there was one chain left, and it kept us tethered no matter how hard we tried. 
 Time. 
 Time was a dimension that we couldn't wield, only yield to. There was so much left of the universe to explore—to have—yet we couldn't reach it because it moved faster than our fastest modes of transportation. And then the Codemaker found it: the basewave. 
 The Resonance. 
 We managed to untether time from us, instead fastening the end of the line to the basewave. Very soon our reach extended from our little galaxy to its supercluster, then to others, then to the very edges of space itself. We became the universe, recoding it to our liking, manipulating the basewave, having finally achieved the prime directive of any and every smart creature born of stellar dust. 
 But, as you've proven to know, the universe is a finite thing. Although we ourselves were no longer constricted by time, time was always constricted on the universe. Things stopped changing, everything became...stagnant. It is in our essence to explore uncharted territories, to satiate curiosity through knowledge, but no one knew what to do once everything was discovered. Purpose drives ambition; without purpose, we were lost.  
 Thus began Simulation-1.  
 Or, what you term the Avadara Universe. 
   
 * 
   
 By now we were known to the mid-civ alpha-Insipians as Framers. Seldom did we interact with anyone outside our echelon, seen by them as the ever-fleeting governing entities that dictated the fluidity of our cosmos. Some of us had formed factions solely responsible for regulating conduct between galactic confederacies and their racial subsidies, thwarting conflicts and instilling universal laws which kept disturbances at bay. Everything was ours. 
 And we were bored. 
 We embraced the title given to us by the lay, adding merit to it by beginning a project—an experiment, one might call it—framing places, worlds, and eventually entire universes with the intent to watch and learn what may have been with only the tiniest deviation to our cosmological equation. We ran thirteen simulations concurrently, one after the other.  
 Through the Grid we watched as each expanded and molded into similar—yet entirely different—environments from our own. We drew many conclusions, but more so had satiated our desire to continue learning. Thousands of us tuned in each day to watch the happenings of places outside of our physical reach. It was exciting, and tempting. 
 Too tempting.  
 The only rule we had to follow was that of our Codemaker's—; 
 And it wasn't long at all before it was broken. 
 










 
   
 XVIII 
 IDIOSYNCRATIC WARMTH 
   
   
 Leid Koseling—;  
   
   
   
   
   
 THE NOISE IN MY HEAD GREW LOUDER, each pitch a tiny chisel picking away brain matter and patience, leaving only pain and static. 
 Qaira was alive. He was...somewhere. 
 So close, so close. 
 I gripped the edges of Euxodia's central podium with white knuckles and closed my eyes, soldiering through the mounting pain. I tried to find him again, but attica wouldn't give me a lock. His resonance was fleeting, like a faint beacon on a foggy night. I'd felt him ever since attica had brought Exo'daius's universe online. The sensation was like feathers against my skin. I'd spent hours weaving through the conscious stream in an effort to connect with Qaira—succeeding once, but only for a few moments. Succeeding had actually surprised me, as never before could we do something like this. It made me question whether what I'd felt and seen had been real at all, or just the product of exhaustion and subsequent delusion.  
 But he'd seemed real enough. Only time would tell. 
 My breath quickened as I felt myself wince; the pain was too much. I couldn't find him. 
 I couldn't find him. 
 With an angered cry of defeat my knees buckled, and I clutched at the podium to keep from collapsing. A pair of hands suddenly squeezed my shoulders, and Yahweh murmured into my ear: 
 "Come on, sit down." 
 I hadn't even heard or felt him enter the library. I was too tired to protest and let him guide me to one of the chairs along the sectional desk. Once seated, Yahweh glanced uneasily toward the attica stream at the center of the room, his face alit in soft blue light. 
 "What are you trying to do?" he asked.  
 "Find him," I said, barely more than a whisper. "Why are you here?" 
 "I felt your pain. You should be kinder to yourself, for my sake." 
 I smiled in response to his attempt at humor, but was certain it seemed forced. "I need something to help me focus." 
 Yahweh frowned. "Yes, you do. Food and rest are the best kinds of medicine." 
 "No, I need something from your pharmacy. The strongest thing you have; give it to me." 
 He hesitated, concernedly, searching my face. "Leid, anything I give you won't be effective in your state." 
 "That's an order." 
 His expression switched from concern to insult. "And I am obliged to follow your command, except I am also obliged to act in your best interest, and right now you aren't thinking clearly." 
 "Please." 
 Yahweh sighed, lowering his gaze. "Only if you rest and have something to eat first. You weren't at morning meal." 
 Even though every second counted, I had no choice but to agree to those terms. "Alright, fine." 
 He stood and offered his hand. "I'll escort you to your room. Aela will bring you food shortly." 
 Escort me?  
 My expression must have given away that thought, as Yahweh then said, "I have to make sure. You know why." 
 "Yes," I said, scathed. "You don't trust me." 
 Yahweh tilted his head. "Do you blame me?"  
 "No." 
 With that I took his hand, relishing its idiosyncratic warmth. We vacated Euxodia, the attica stream deactivating behind us. 
   
 *** 
   
 Pariah Andosyni—; 
   
 It was cold and the pain was enough to render me immobile, slumped against a grated wall woven in frayed wiring. The shock had worn off and I trembled uncontrollably as Sapphire sat at my side, encouraging me to keep replenishing with bits of metal scalped from a destroyed sentry that Zira had drug along to cannibalize.  
 I'd awakened at the Priming facility, having missed an onslaught of guard sentries intended for Collective infiltration. There had been none, as far as I knew, as the only bodies we'd encountered were Altrian.  
 Sapphire and Zira were covered in wounds as well, albeit not as severe. Surface abrasions and burns marred their faces. Their hands had since regenerated from scythes, and as Sapphire offered me moral support, Zira inspected the contraption at the far end of the room. A cylindrical chamber connected to digitech wires hummed rhythmically; Zira's silhouette stood at a series of panels with screens and keypads. He was muttering under his breath.  
 I dared not speak, knowing good and well that I was responsible for our predicament. Zira was obviously nettled so I chose to catch up on Sapphire's fragment entries rather than ask them what had happened. 
 My legs had returned to working order, although the outer layers of skin were still molding across my shins. The tingling sensation of such heightened exposure was almost maddening. My neck was sore, but I could move my head and the paralysis was gone. 
 I'd been warned of this before, but had never experienced it firsthand. Qaira and Yahweh had shared horrifying stories—Qaira's told in boast—of the injuries they'd endured during the Celestial War. We were capable of regenerating damaged tissue, even limbs and other parts of the body considered otherwise irreparable to lesser physiology. Our line of work typically removed us from receiving such injuries anymore; and I was glad because this was terrible.  
 "Are you well enough to walk yet?" Zira snapped from over his shoulder. "I can't figure this out." 
 "No," I rasped. "Soon, I think." 
 "We don't have soon. There are nano-infected corpses and sentries outside that door," he said, which prompted me to look toward the sealed entranceway on the right side of the room. It was reinforced and Zira had deactivated the lock-disengage mechanism, yet the caution behind his gaze led me to believe that our safety still wasn't guaranteed.  
 Sapphire handed me another chunk of metal; it was a portion of the sentry's head she'd cut with a scythe. "Give him another minute. Almost there." She squeezed my shoulder, encouragingly; such idiosyncratic warmth from her was unusual, and I acknowledged it with a look of surprise. Sapphire gave me a half-grin, saying nothing else. 
 Once the metal was absorbed, I rose to a stand with a wince. Sapphire offered to help but I motioned for her to let me be; only I would bear the burden of my rookie mistake.  
 I staggered to where Zira stood and we examined the instrument together.  
 "This is what takes us to Halcyon," I presumed. 
 "It better be, or else we're trapped," said Zira. 
  "What if it's meant for euthanasia?" I asked.  
 Zira shook his head. "There would be bodies. The last person couldn't clean themselves up." 
 "Fair enough." 
 "No harm in trying either way," called Sapphire, her scythe having since retracted. Now she repaired her hand using the last of the sentry shell. "It's not like it will kill us." 
 "I don't really feel like injuring myself again," I said, wary.  
 "You won't," said Zira, moving toward the cylinder chamber. "I'll go first. You'll have to flip the switch, or whatever." 
 "Are you strong enough?" asked Sapphire, concerned.  
 I nodded, casting a look around the room as Zira stepped through the open door of the silica chamber. We had sorely underestimated the technological capabilities of Niaphali-X's indigenous. This dark, expansive room—with all its wires and digitech equipment—attested to our folly. The scent of rot intermingled with that of exhaust from an unseen generator. We treaded within the tomb of a lost race whose last hope was to construct the very things in which they'd feared; all that was left of them were their reanimated dead, driven by Collective nanomachinery, beneath an underground bunker of a dying world. Honestly, it was all very sad. 
 My hand hovered over the panel. "Again, you're sure you want to do this." 
 Zira gazed ahead, at Sapphire. "Go on. Let's see where this door leads us." 
 "To Halcyon," said Sapphire, having moved beside me to watch the spectacle in full view.  
 "May we rise in pieces," I said with a small intake of breath, sending my palm flat against the panel. The silica chamber door slid shut immediately after.  
 I closed my eyes, exhaling now, and with my breath went my essence through the circuitry—to the source. I needn't any instructions, only its current. The hiss of hydraulics broke the silence of the priming facility as I activated the neural-transference constraints to Zira's arms, legs and spinal base. Although my eyes were closed the circuitry showed me everything, and then finally it showed me coordinates.  
 Our hunch was incorrect. This was not an instrument of euthanasia, but a prehistoric portal system. The Altrians' last breaths had been a war cry, propelling them from a lower to upper-caste civilization while at the foot of Death's door. 
 All that I could hope was for Halcyon to live up to its title.  
 It took Zira several minutes to respond once he'd vanished from the silica chamber. Sapphire and I had grown increasingly nervous, until a ping from our attica map displayed new coordinates on Niaphali-X's satellite, titled HALCYON. He'd given the moon a name. 
 None of us had actually known where the chamber would lead. In flooded the utter relief of knowing—despite every setback along the way—our mission was still on track, albeit a bit behind schedule. Hopefully Adrial and other others were relieved by the update, too. 
 My abilities were no longer necessary, as per our mission we'd brought a miniature obelisk, no bigger than a centerpiece statue, used to transport us anywhere within attica's map. Now that Zira had provided coordinates, teleportation was effortless.  
 Calibrating the obelisk took a minute at most—and not a minute too soon, as a mob of reanimated Altrian corpses had found the sealed door to the Priming Facility and began to pound on it. The thunder of their nano-operated fists alerted nearby sentries. Gunfire ensued.  
 Just as the door was ripped open from a group of sentries, mangled pieces of nano-corpses now splayed around their armored feet, the obelisk flashed in announcement of an attica-synchronization and we left that nightmarish world behind us forever. 
   
 * 
   
 Transference vertigo was a term we used to describe the acute onset of dizziness and other imbalances suffered when taken from one environment and placed directly into another. The vertigo lessened with experience; Sapphire and Zira arrived perfectly fine, while I stumbled right off the arrival platform and landed in a pile of white sand fifty-feet below. 
 "Are you alright?" called Zira, clearly amused. 
 I didn't respond, trying to scrape the sand off my tongue. I had fallen from the top step of a random staircase set in the middle of an ivory desert spanning as far as the eye could see. The change in scenery was disarming, not to mention that of the lone staircase. Zira and Sapphire descended the last step and the three of us surveyed the new world.  
 Before us was a winding road leading off into a hazy, violet horizon. Illuminated dust particles flitted through the air like glitter. It was colder than Niaphali-X, though not by much. The atmosphere was intact, and the air composition should have suited Altrian physiology well enough. The road, like everything else here, was made of white stone. 
 "So is this the road to Halcyon?" I asked, perplexed. "I thought we'd already finished that part." 
 "Guess not," said Zira, shoving his hands into his pockets. "Sapphi, are you getting a vis-capture?" 
 "I am," she said. 
 "Let's get going, then." With that, Zira set off down the road, Sapphire and I tailing close behind. 
 With the uniform environment we were able to move faster than on Niaphali, covering hundreds of miles in only an hour's time. At our fastest we could break the sound barrier, but that was reckless if we didn't know our surroundings perfectly—not to mention any clue that might lead us toward Rhazekan artifacts would have blurred by without detection. 
 We stopped to rest and replenish several hours into our trek, seated on the road that seemed to go on forever. The moon's tranquil scenery had since grown monotonous and lonely. It was quiet.  
 Too quiet. 
 "Where is everybody?" I asked. "We should have seen some activity by now." 
 Zira's conflicted gaze remained ahead of us. "Dead, probably." 
 "This road is well-maintained," noted Sapphire. "It would be covered in sand otherwise." 
 He acknowledged her point with only a nod. Judging by his grim expression, Zira had other thoughts on the subject but chose to keep quiet.  
 Just then attica alerted us that we were within close proximity of the detected Rhazekan chemical footprints. From the coordinates, it seemed the road was leading us directly to it. Now I understood Zira's expression; it was likely the Altrians hadn't carved this road. Or maintained it.  
 The alert prompted us to continue, this time harrowingly. We didn't travel as quickly as before. "What are the odds that the Rhazekan are still around?" I asked. 
 "Slim," said Sapphire. "They were not an upper-caste civilization and had no way of getting here." 
 "You said that about the Altrians and not a day later we found their primitive portal system." 
 Sapphire gave me an annoyed look. Zira kept on, listening to our little argument unfold with a smirk. "Rhazekans were an early civilization; they didn't even reach industrialization and relied on man-power for agriculture and trade." 
 "So why are their chemical footprints located here?" 
 Sapphire sighed. "A chemical footprint means their architecture and trace DNA fragments were detected. That doesn't mean whatever is—or was—here are wholly Rhazekan." 
 That made me slow. Zira and Sapphire slowed as well, looking back at me in question. 
 "You're suggesting that there might be more proxies?" I demanded. "If so, the risk involved here has just quadrupled." 
 "There is nothing to suggest they are still alive yet," assured Sapphire. 
 "Then who is maintaining this road?!" I exclaimed, surprising even myself. 
 Zira intervened. "Look, do we want to stand here and hypothesize or find actual evidence? Proxies or not, our mission was made clear." 
 "Pariah, you're tired and frustrated; we understand," added Sapphire. "You need to keep a level head, no matter how exhausted." 
 They were right, and all I could do was look away in concession. This was not me; I was more collected than this. I had spent countless hours in Euxodia researching exotic worlds yet had never stepped foot on one. I had overestimated my capacity for real-word experience, no pun intended. 
 "Yeah, sorry," I said. 
 Seeing my humility, neither one said anything else and resumed down the road. I was still catching up as they froze once more, and this time their eyes remained ahead. They were looking at a cluster of what appeared to be massive, ivory spears sticking up from the ground, glinting in the sunlight. They were large enough to be visible from several miles away, stabbing at the violet skyline. At first I thought they were some type of terrestrial-formed escarpment, but attica was telling us our destination was there. 
 "That look Rhazekan to you?" Zira asked Sapphire with a slight tilt of his head, eyes never leaving the spears.  
 "No," she said. 
 Zira clicked his tongue. "Yeah, didn't think so." 
 I gaped. "Is that a city?" 
 "It's something," said Sapphire. "The road leads directly to it." 
 "We should pause and consider what we might be walking into," I said.  
 "That ship has sailed," said Zira. "They saw us coming long before we did them." 
 I cursed and rubbed my forehead, swallowing down the tension trying to claw its way up my throat. Having my legs blown off and neck broken wasn't something I ever wanted to feel again.  
 "If they wanted to hurt us, I imagine they would have already tried to," offered Sapphire. "Or perhaps no one is there and we're scaring ourselves for nothing." 
 "I'll update the thread," said Zira, nodding in gesture for us to continue. "Who wants to keep their vis-capture on?" 
 "I will," I said, trying to be somewhat useful.  
 We walked side-by-side the rest of the way. If this place was indeed what the Altrians called Halcyon, it wasn't difficult to see why. Under any other circumstance everything here was beautiful, serene. Strange to think how something so resplendent could be equally dysphoric.  
 At a hundred yards from the escarpment-city, eight black-robed figures ascended from an entrance leading underground. They arranged themselves in a line, blocking the entrance, but made no motion to approach us—only guard the door.  
 We stopped as well, leaving fifty yards between us.  
 They were on the taller side, and lean; even through their robes it was apparent. We couldn't see their faces because their heads were bowed, hoods drawn. 
 When it was made clear we weren't going to be the first to speak, one of the figures moved forward—shuffled, almost—and pulled back their hood. 
 "You are from the land of the red sun," it said, in fluent Exodian. Its voice was light and tonal, like strings music. "What business do you have here?" 
 None of us replied at first, too busy staring at its antennae.  
 










 
   
 XIX 
 CALLING 
   
 Yahweh Telei—; 
   
   
   
 I SAT ON A LOUNGE SOFA AS Leid slowly ate the meal Aela had brought in half an hour ago. It was a small portion of moistened sweet-grains and fruit, but I'd only seen her take four bites so far from my peripheral surveillance.  
 Leid was an anomaly, and not just in a physical sense. Normally she was as tough as nails and determined in whatever the cause. Body count was an insignificant thing if it meant getting what she wanted. She was like Qaira in that way, albeit more rational. 
 But not here, now. All reason had flown out the window the moment her husband's life was in danger, and thus I was forced to ensure she got appropriate rest and nourishment so that she wouldn't die of exertion.  
 Love was also an anomaly to me. I'd loved people and ideas, but never with the kind of love that shoved a wrench into the cogs of logic. I wasn't a selfish person by any means, but watching Leid certainly made me feel like it. 
 "Are you going to sit there while I sleep, too?" demanded Leid. 
 "Yes." 
 Leid set the plate aside and attempted an icy glare. In her exhausted state, it was anything but intimidating. "I could remove you from this room." 
 I tilted my head. "You could, but would you?" 
 She smiled curtly and looked away. "We're wasting time." 
 "Then you should stop resisting and rest. I'll wake you in two hours." 
 "I can't sleep with someone staring at me." 
 I sighed, moving the sofa to face the wall. I plopped back onto it, saying nothing.  
 Leid said nothing either, and I heard her blankets rustle. As much as she had fought it, her status in the conscious stream moved to stasis within minutes. I looked behind me, verifying that she was asleep.  
 Then I crept out of her room and closed the door, heading for the pharmacy to hold up my part of our agreement. 
   
 * 
   
 I was still unsure as to what Leid meant when she'd asked for 'something to help her focus'. I imagined a stimulant, one that kept her alert for days on end. Being alert was something entirely different from being focused—and Leid knew that, surely—and staying awake for days on end for a reason she had yet to fully explain to me sounded dangerous. Two hours of rest after a period of overexertion wouldn't bring focus from a stimulant; perhaps at first, but it would quickly lead to delirium and if Leid became any more detached from reality then there would be no reasoning with her.  
 Leid didn't need a stimulant. She needed a relaxant; the only way she could truly focus involved cutting down her panic and anxiety over Qaira's circumstances. I was sure she was expecting a stimulant, and I'd tell her it was. Eventually she would figure out I had deceived her, but she'd never specified the type of substance she wanted, only something to help her focus.  
 After some consideration, I selected three types of vials from my collection: two CNS depressants from differing worlds, and one mood enhancer. I combined them with careful measurements and sealed the mixture to take to her room. The resulting vial was mostly clear, with a slightly blue tinge. It smelled acrid, but Leid wouldn't care about that.  
  I placed the vial on the end table next to her bed and returned to my post on the sofa. She was still asleep and would be for another hour and a half. I thought about letting her sleep longer, but that would only tarnish her trust in me. Instead I used the remaining time to catch up on the Niaphali-X fragments.  
 I brought Leid out of stasis exactly when promised. As expected she was groggy and disoriented, and even shooed me away several times.  
 "You said you only wanted two hours," I reminded her. 
 "Five more minutes," she murmured, burying herself in her blankets. 
 I rolled my eye and returned to the sofa. She fell into stasis thirty seconds later. At exactly five minutes I tried to wake her up again; and again, she asked for five more minutes. 
 "Leid, either you wake up now or I am letting you rest until you're refreshed enough to get up on your own. I'm not spending the entire day waking you up every five minutes." 
 She was unresponsive, and returned to stasis.  
 I huffed and vacated her room after leaving written instructions of how to administer the vial on her nightstand.  
 Adrial and Aela were in RQ3, combing through the meager collection of writings and artifacts left by the proxies upon their arrival to Exo'daius. Obsidian tablets and grass-woven parchments were splayed on a table between them. Judging by their expressions, they hadn't found anything hinting toward our current situation. I deduced they wouldn't, as it was made clear the proxies hadn't wanted to risk their survival on the curiosities of their descendants. Ironic.  
 "Have you come to join the fun?" asked Adrial, noticing my presence. 
 "No. Leid is asleep; I'm going to find something to eat." 
 "There's a plate left in cold storage for you," Aela said, eyes trained on a sheet of parchment before her.  
 I murmured thanks and headed for the dining hall. I poured myself some spirits and ate my meal alone. The silence was a bit unnerving.  
 But the silence didn't last. An attica alert informed me that Pariah was logging a vis-capture into the Niaphali fragment. They had reached the satellite by some act of a miracle, which they'd called Halcyon. Having nothing else to do, I abandoned my half-finished meal—yet taking my spirits—to Euxodia to analyze the capture via remote stream.  
 I watched through Pariah's eyes the events unfolding at a strange, jagged, crystal-like monument that the group had labeled to be a city. They were met by a group of anthropoid creatures concealed in hooded robes. I felt my body tense while watching this, having not expected to see any other lifeforms. I pinged Adrial and Aela to acknowledge the updates, and nearly dropped my drink when one of the hooded figures stepped forward and revealed their face. Data scrolled beside its image; faint squares framing its features, identifying something we hadn't ever logged ourselves.  
   
 Fehe'zin 
   
 Attica had just given us a species name. How that was possible, considering none of us were familiar with this race, eluded me. But there were more pressing facts to dissect from these creatures—; 
 Most importantly, they were identical to the corpse-statues found at the ruins across the gorge. 
 I pinged Adrial again, this time in distress. Leid would have to be woken up as well.  
 Everyone needed to see this. 
 










 
 ~*~ 
 HYMN OF THE MULTIVERSE 
 APHORISM II 
   
   
   
 Regalis Sarine-375—; 
    
   
   
   
 OUR GREATEST FEAR WAS TIME. 
 We feared it more than the repercussions of which the Codemaker had promised should we ever overstep his Law. Not by his hand, but by the hand of causality itself.  
 There is a certain balance, you see, that must be kept in order for all operations to run smoothly. Inserting ourselves into a framed universe would undoubtedly connect back to its source. Framed universes existed only for us to observe, never to engage. It was but a thousand years later when a group of Framers, faced with the challenge of mortality once again in light of our slowly-dying universe, to argue the Codemaker's Law.  
 If we are capable of creating it, we lay claim to its space.  
 If we are to survive, more space is necessary as time digests everything around us. 
 Hundreds of forums were held in debate of these points. There was never a consensus, only mounting tension between the contending sides. Our peaceful society, once governed by individual sovereignty with a unified directive, cracked and crumbled into mortal rubble at the base of our ladder. 
 Without any distinctive laws governing us except for the one in question, hundreds of us left and crossed into the framed universe, Simulation-1. But the Codemaker, unbeknownst to any of us, had taken some precautionary measures for such an event. 
 1)    Those who crossed into framed universes for more than a conscripted amount of time could never return to their source universe. Alpha-Insipia was no longer accessible to them. This wouldn't have been such a problem if not for— 
 2)    Framers could no longer frame. Their resonance was weakened by the tension placed on the basewave due to distance from the source. The strain of their existence in places they should not exist barred three-fourths of their capabilities in their natural environment. Still this was not too inconvenient, if not for— 
 3)    Once a framer crossed into a simulated universe, a timer began. It counted down until the moment that their logic and reasoning were scrambled, something we called the Codebreaker sequence. Because that was what they were—code breakers. The cost of breaking the Codemaker's Law was to lose all sense of oneself. It was the closest thing to mortality that he could create. 
   
 Upon observing that fatal cypher, all emigration ceased; as to lose one's sense of existence was to not exist at all.










 
   
 XX 
 NEUROSIS 
   
   
 Pariah Andosyni—; 
   
   
   
   
   
 "SIGHT-SEEING," SAID ZIRA, coolly. Despite his best attempt, it was apparent our welcome-wagon shook him. We could feel his anxiety. "You're from the land of the red sun, too. We saw your city. What are you doing here?" 
 The antannae'd anthropoid, which attica mysteriously designated Fehe'zin, studied us with its black, sclera-bereft eyes. It wore no expression—at least any that we could interpret. I had some difficulty with the idea that we were from the same world; yet the thrum of their resonance, felt at the base of my chest, attested to this fact. 
 "If you've been to our city, then you should know that we are ensconced. Have they sent you to finish us? Is that why you're here?" 
 Zira frowned in confusion, and Sapphire picked up his slack. "The Framers didn't send us. We, like you, are being hunted by them." 
 "What is your race?" asked the Fehe'zin. 
 "Vel'Haru." 
 That seemed to resonate with them. Behind the leader, the other Fehe'zin removed their hoods. "How did you find this place?" 
 "Same as you, I imagine," said Sapphire. "By following the molecular footprints of our ancestors." 
 "And what do you seek here?" 
 Sapphire hesitated, glancing at Zira. Zira said nothing. It was a weighted question for which we didn't have an answer. Not entirely, anyway.  
 "The Framers took one of ours," I said. "We're following clues left by our proxies to find out how to stop them. One of their clues led us here." 
 "How to stop a Framer?" asked the Fehe'zin, amusement in his tone.  
 "Did you construct this place?" asked Zira, after a lengthy silence had befallen us.  
 "No," said the Fehe'zin, abruptly turning back toward the door. On cue, the others followed. "We take care of it, and it takes care of us in turn. Please, come in." 
 The three of us stood there, looking between each other. Zira was the first to move.  
 "You guys coming?" he called. 
 "Be careful," murmured Sapphire, following.  
 "Of what?" asked Zira, incredulous.  
 "Something is off here," she said, a quiver in her voice. Zira acknowledged her warning with a dire look.  
 I took a final sensory-capture of the spires before descending into Halcyon with the others. 
   
 * 
   
 Within Halcyon was a cave-like system, its winding paths lit by mounted torches of emerald, copper-sulfate flames. One of the paths eventually led to an open cavern alit with a dozen or so torches.  
 The leader—or at least the one I thought was the leader, although the distinction was never made clear—introduced himself as Arigul. The others remained silent and dispersed upon arrival into the cavern; some to work on an already expansive mural covering the entirety of the wall, the rest through another passage, fading from the green phosphorescence of torchlight. 
 We stood silently in awe as the scenery unfolded. Arigul gathered a bowl of crushed grubs and mites near his sculpting tools and offered them to us.  
 "You look hungry," he said, nodding to the bowl when none of us volunteered to take it. 
 Not that hungry, I thought, but Zira surprised us all by grabbing a handful of the insect mush and absorbed it in an enclosed fist. We followed suit, and never before was I so delighted by not having to eat our food.  
 Arigul watched us replenish. If that had shocked him, we'd have never known it. "I'd offer drink, but it doesn't seem that you need it." 
 "We're good, thank you," said Zira. His eyes trailed to the group of Fehe'zin chiseling away at the wall. "What are they doing?" 
 "Transcribing the relic's stories," said Arigul. "Such is the debt for our shelter." 
 Zira and Sapphire cast each other quizzical looks. I slowly ventured to the wall to investigate. A portion of the mural depicted a group of people standing over others who knelt at their feet, seemingly in praise. The subordinate group was strikingly familiar. Long, thin appendages with scythe-like claws. Rhazekan. The dominant group was foreign to me. Slender in stature, appearing more like us. Little color had been added to the mural, but the Fehe'zin had taken the time to make their hair chrome. All of them. 
 "Hey," I said. "Come and look at this." 
 Zira and Sapphire sidled with me, studying the image. They, too, recognized the Rhazekan almost immediately; and they, too, couldn't identify the other group of silver-haired beings. 
 Beside us the nameless Fehe'zin artists silently chipped away at the wall, disregarding our presence. They seemed tired, wary—yet robotic. Sapphire had been right; something was definitely off. 
 Arigul appeared behind us, and it was the first time that I saw him smile. His teeth were raptorial in appearance; long, sharp canines and an absence of molars. "The Metamorphosis. One of my personal favorites." 
 "Who are they?" asked Sapphire, pointing to the silver-haired group. 
 Arigul hesitated, his gaze shifting between the mural and us. "You came to stop the Framers, yet you don't even know what they look like?" 
 Our attention darted back to the wall. I made sure to get a vis-capture of this. If these were the Framers, then why—? 
 "I don't understand," murmured Sapphire, aghast. "What does this represent? What does this mean?" 
 "It means the Rhazekan and Framers were friends," breathed Zira. He gave Arigul a skeptical frown. "According to your kin. I don't suppose you have anything other than drawings to support this?" 
 Arigul sighed, waving us forward as he moved toward another passage across the room. "It seems we have much to discuss." 
 "Hooray, story-time," muttered Zira, following reluctantly.  
 Sapphire and I took one final glance at the mural. "Adrial is going to soil his pants at this," I whispered.  
 "I've no doubt they've been watching ever since we met Arigul," said Sapphire. 
 She and I followed Zira through the passage, eager for answers, the unsettling feeling all but gone. 
   
 *** 
   
 Yahweh Telei—; 
   
 At precisely the moment when Pariah entered Halcyon, the vis-capture flat-lined. We were left in yearning, seeing only darkness. Concentrating any further on the cast sent tremors through the base of my neck—and the others' too, judging by their expressions—and so we shut it down.  
 Something had jammed attica's feed. The only one intuitive to this was Leid. 
 "They've gone to the right place," she concluded.  
 "How do you know?" asked Adrial.  
 "It's the same trick the proxies used here," said Leid. She shrugged in annoyance of his ignorance. Her annoyance was unfair; Adrial couldn't feel what she did. "There's a shield—probably one that manipulates time." 
 "Hence the road," I said, noting to let Pariah know about this later on, considering he'd been so adamant on finding out how it was maintained. 
 "What are they doing there? The Fehe'zin?" asked Aela. It was a rhetorical question, though her eyes shifted to Leid in meager hope that she might have some inclination. 
 "Hiding," I said, surprising everyone. "The shield around Enigmus was what kept the Framers from knowing we're here. Whatever Halcyon is, whatever it was intended for, keeps the Fehe'zin safe from detection. You heard it: ensconced." 
 We mulled over this in silence for a while. There weren't any updates to the Niaphali fragment; either they weren't aware we could no longer watch them, or any flow of information was blocked. Then, another thought crossed my mind. "How old are the Fehe'zin?" 
 Leid's expression darkened. "Too old." 
 Adrial let out an exasperated sigh. "Is no one else wondering where the fuck all the Altrians are?" 
   
 *** 
 Pariah Andosyni—; 
   
  "We've been here a long time," said Arigul, almost in a sigh. "So long that I don't know how many Exodian years have passed since we fled Vaizera." 
 Vaizera being the name of their home, I surmised, and quickly added that to attica's map. No longer was that dot labeled Fehe'zin Ruins. 
 Arigul had led us down further into the tunnel system of Halcyon, where the walls were not decorated in murals and instead shimmered against the torchlight like emerald slabs. "We managed to escape before they turned off our gateways," he continued. "Twenty-two of us, though nearly half died along our journey to safety."  
 "Do you know why they destroyed your home?" asked Sapphire. They being the hunters, obviously. But that was our name for them; we had no idea who they really were. 
 "Not back then, but I do now." There was a long pause from Arigul, and just when I thought he'd say no more on the matter, he continued, "They are conscripted by the Framers to search Exo'daius for cross-breeds. They have your entire world under surveillance by obelisks in cloud-cover, screening for any life." 
 That sent a shiver down my spine. "But why? And how?" And... what were cross-breeds? 
 "Exo'daius is a trap in disguise of a world. It's a prison. No one from Alpha-Insipia lives there." Arigul regarded us with a withering gaze, as if it hurt him to impart this information. "They've opened a tear that only our kind can cross, as bait. Their goal is to exterminate us." 
 "Our kind?" repeated Sapphire, shaken. 
 "Cross-breeds," said Arigul. "Those with the ability to cross universes, specifically into Alpha-Insipia. Anyone capable of making it into Exo'daius is an infraction of their law." 
 "What law?" I asked.  
 Arigul shook his head. "I don't know. I'm sorry." 
 "So how do you know everything else?" demanded Zira. "Why would you live there at all if you knew?" 
 Arigul's black eyes slid to him. "Like I said, I didn't know back then. I know now because it tells us." 
 It.   
 And then I felt it. 
 A throb, like a heartbeat—or a toothache—invaded my senses, growing more intense the deeper we descended. Zira and Sapphire could feel it too, as they began to grimace in discomfort. The emerald walls of the cavern were now streaked with crimson; irregularities in the rock, yet oddly resembling smears of bloody handprints. That gnawing, unsettling feeling returned full-force.  
 "Ah, you feel it," said Arigul, observing our uneasiness with a smile. "As did we. It called to us through the void, like a beacon." 
 "And... what is it?" I dared to ask. 
 "I'll show you," he said, quickening his pace. "Just a little further now." 
 I didn't like the way he said that. It had been quiet, regretful. Sapphire had caught his tone as well, and slowed. Zira did not slow, but clenched a fist at his side. All of our eyes settled on the back of Arigul's head. He may have known it, too, since he was somewhat like us. His antennae twitched, but nothing else. 
 And then we walked into the heart of Halcyon. 
 It was vast and circular—as circular as rock formation could achieve, although this was not a natural cave system—without any torchlight yet more illuminated than any place we'd been so far. I squinted until my eyes adjusted, and then I wished they hadn't. 
 There were bodies arranged around the room, attached to the rock in some cases, others encased in large crimson geode-looking formations trapped forever in silent screams. A quick scan counted two dozen, but there were more than that. The walls had somehow swallowed some, as only gnarled, decayed limbs reached from the stone—hands, feet, even a head—and while a few corpses were unidentifiable in attica, most of them were Altrian. 
 This was where the journey on the road to Halcyon had led them. 
 I felt sick. 
 Sapphire staggered back toward the entrance with a hand over her mouth. Zira released a scythe, a snarl curling his lips.  
 But Arigul didn't flinch and only proceeded slowly toward the center of the room. He paid no mind to the bodies, obviously having seen them trillions of times before—most likely the one who had put them here—and stopped several paces from an obelisk that looked identical to the ones at Enigmus.  
 It was our obelisk.  
 Except it felt different, pulsing raw energy that left my heart in my throat and made it difficult to swallow. Or breathe. 
 Above the obelisk floated an electric red sphere, bobbing up and down rhythmically, each movement sending another pulse through the room. Each pulse sent a series of whispers, though they were too distorted for me to discern. It felt like warm breath against my ears, as if someone was standing right behind me.  
 Arigul turned, facing our disgust and horror with a sad smile. "Don't you understand yet? Can't you feel its call? You are Framers. We are Framers. Those that built this place housed this secret. They protect this secret, and they protect us from those who wish to eradicate us." 
 I barely heard him, unable to see through my growing fury. "Why did you kill these people?" 
 "It needs to feed," said Arigul, matter-of-factly. "Without an energy source, its voice withers and dies. Its shield fails. We had to protect it, so it could protect us." 
 "You're insane," Sapphire said through clenched teeth. "You've expired and you don't even know it. You sacrificed hundreds, and for what? To continue with your cave drawings?" 
 Arigul's sad smile faded. Now he was angry, defensive. "If the shield failed then the Framers would have found Halcyon and destroyed it long before you came here. It was here to be discovered by you, their kin. You took too long to find us. This is your fault, not ours." 
 Zira actually laughed, but it was hardly in amusement. "Do you know what we did to the ones who made this place?" He asked, tilting his head and taking another step forward. His orange eyes gleamed, feral. "We killed them and threw their corpses off the Enigmus gorge, because they were vicious and crazy and only vicious and crazy beings would ever adopt and exact their charge." He looked at me, nodding. I nodded back, a silent agreement that what was about to happen was the right thing to do. Then his callous gaze fell back on Arigul. "Thank you for preserving this proxy relic for us, but now I must relieve you from your duty. Sapphire, please put down the others while Pariah and I procure the obelisk." 
 Sapphire nodded solemnly, slipping out of the room.  
 In the end, Arigul had not begged for his life, which was a noble feat—and confusing one, if he'd been willing to sacrifice hundreds of lives to preserve his own for so long. Perhaps he'd known there was no protection against us. For the Fehe'zin in Halcyon, the Framers had always been a lesser threat, whether they'd known it or not.  
 It was the first time I'd released a scythe and killed someone; Zira had allowed me the honor, knowing I'd been more affected by this than him. When Arigul fell and solidified, I almost smiled. It had hurt to release my scythe, but the subsequent use of it had given me pleasure. That didn't seem right. 
 But what came next quelled my internal struggle. The stone floor liquefied around Arigul's effigy and it sank below the surface. The obelisk flashed, its pulse intensified, and my head began to throb. Zira sank to his knees and groaned in pain. Wow.  
 That was all I could think at the moment. Wow. 
 The sphere above the obelisk cracked, then shattered, and the room filled with blinding light.  
 I couldn't remember what happened next. 
 










 
 ~*~ 
   
 Once upon a time there was a place with Framers and their chosen hybrids, mongrels swept from their home world and made something special, chosen by white-haired gods. Hundreds of Framers and their chosen spent their days mapping the cosmos of the unfolding, forming multiverse, relishing in knowledge and beauty and all things that effervesced. The chosen ascended from their low-civ status to gods-in-the-making and all was utopian and safe. 
 Until it wasn't. 
 Their white-haired mentors turned on them inexplicably—and each other—until all that was left was a ruined, smoldering world and twelve chosen survivors. 
 They were no longer gods-in-the-making. They were monsters-at-last, distorted by loss. They swore to kill the white-haired gods and all things created by them. 
 All things. 
 They were scorn.  
 Proxy. 
 Vel'Haru. 
 And now the shackles were off. 
   
   
 ~*~ 
   
 Yahweh Telei—; 
   
 AT ONE MOMENT WE ALL were seated around the council table in Euxodia, conversing over how to proceed with the attica black-out. The next, Leid was out of her chair and on the ground, seizing.  
 We surrounded her, Adrial on his knees, resting her head against his lap. He cradled her face as her eyes rolled into her head and she shook, and shook, and shook. He looked up at me, accusingly. "Did you give her something?" 
 Yes, I had. "She ordered me to." But he and I both knew that any type of substance wouldn't cause this affect. Unless she drank the entire thing.  
 Did she drink the entire thing? 
 "I hope that's all it is," said Aela. "At least we know she can't die from it then." 
 And then Leid's body fell slack, her eyes closed. Attica informed us that she was in stasis. But before any of us could sigh in relief, her body went rigid and her eyes shot wide open.  
 Oh, her eyes. They were streaked with violet electricity, like a lightning storm in a blizzard. We called to her, but she was unresponsive. Attica said she was still in stasis. 
 "Damn it all," Adrial said through clenched teeth. "We can't afford for this to happen right now. Leid, come on, don't do this." 
 As if she'd heard him, Leid's lips began to move. But only her lips. 
 "I can see them," she whispered. "I can see them. They're coming." 
 Then, she vanished. We all flinched at the phenomenon, and then stood frozen in shock. What had just happened? What— 
 Ping. 
 Attica informed us that a new location was available at the Avadara portal. Halcyon, sure enough.  
 










 
   
 XXI 
 THE ENVOY 
   
   
 Regalis Lelain-235—; 
   
   
   
   
   
 I HAD NEVER BEEN TO A simulated world. Like every other Framer, I was a law-abiding high-citizen of Alpha-Insipia. We had no business here, except now I had to correct the wrongs of our derelict predecessors who had let their curiosity get the better of them.  
 Still, I was a sucker for beautiful scenery, and this was quite beautiful.  
 It had been too long since I'd seen anything other than an obscure dimension bereft of organic form, and so I lingered on the road and gazed up at the violet horizon. White, glittering sand spanned as far as I could see. An ivory ocean; a world dipped in stardust.  
 I sighed in admiration—loudly enough that my companion, Regalis Lassiter-142, shook his head and gave a sigh of his own. His was of impatience. He'd been the only one to volunteer to accompany me. It was understandable; crossing Alpha-Insipia was a daunting feat. Most of the Halon IV Regals had no idea how pressing this was. Not yet, anyhow. Lassiter wouldn't even have joined me either, if not for his polyamorous relationship with Sarine. Obligatory, as Sarine demanded he kept me safe, even if Lassiter wouldn't admit to it.  
 "Where are they?" demanded Lassiter, eyeing the endless road ahead. "I feel them." 
 I nodded down the road. "That way." 
 We walked. 
   
 * 
   
 Time was a strange vector. In our typical environment we had procured the means to side-step all the pre-requisites for the physical plane. Here, we were bound by them. The idea of having to travel anywhere slower than a thought was... alien.  
 But this was not our environment; the rules had been placed by our Codemaker. We could only travel through tears made by the carvings of our dissenters millennia ago. I suspected the Vel'Haru were restricted to similar paths.  
 Lassiter and I stopped to marvel at a lonely staircase made of white stone on the road. At the top of the stairs was a metallic disc fused into its surface. Whatever its function, it had been recently used, as low-level kinetic radiation was detected. At this discovery we shared a look, and continued on.  
 It was only a short time later that we caught a glimpse of diamond-like spires on the horizon. We slowed, analyzing the edifice—if it was an edifice and not naturally-occurring—and saw the crimson haze of unfiltered resonance surrounding it.  
 "Ah," I said, feeling a smile crack. "There they are." 
 "What is it?" asked Lassiter, awestruck. Seldom had he worn such an expression. Of course his question was rhetorical, because I couldn't have possibly known either.  
 But I wanted to know. Whatever it was couldn't be detected, which was strange. I began to get the feeling my assumptions were correct and this envoy was a waste of time. Sarine should have listened to me. We shouldn't have kept that mongrel. 
 Without responding I hastened my gait, and Lassiter did too. Perhaps we could get a reading closer to the anomaly. 
 No more than several paces further a groan shattered the sky. Lassiter ducked, as if it might actually fall on us. I knew better, somehow.  
 Something from the anomaly had punctured reality. Fractals of crimson and indigo light rippled from the diamond spires. A scream—female, indecipherable—rushed past us like a strong gust of wind. Spectral. 
 Something had altered Avadara's coding. Everything felt different. Heady. Foreboding. 
 And then we saw a figure emerge from the edifice's entrance, clad in black robes. It was fleeing. Not a second later something else emerged so quickly that its movements were a blur. The second figure collided with the first, and the robed thing fell, sliced in half at the abdomen. Both pieces of its body began to solidify almost instantly, becoming a black mass of rock amid an otherwise white terrain.  
 We analyzed the remains.  
 Fehe'zin.  
 No, impossible. 
 "They're all dead," said Lassiter, reading my thoughts. "The Khilikri wiped them out before the Deadsun Rebellion." His confusion had a twinge of anger to it, which was understandable. There had been so much happening here that we had no idea of. We had now failed two of our Codemaker's directives. Impurities ran amok. 
 The blur became visible as she stood sentry over the Fehe'zin body. One of her appendages was morphed into a sharp, black killing instrument. The very same instrument seen on the gridcast feedback through the captive mongrel's eyes. She wasn't the same Vel'Haru, but Vel'Haru nonetheless.  
 She took notice of us, remaining still, her amber eyes glittering with caution. A fiery emblem of some sort blazed on her armor.  
 We analyzed each other from a hundred paces away, stoic. 
 I offered her a smile. 
 Her expression hardened. The callousness in her demeanor revealed that she knew who we were. What we were. 
 Yes, it was just as I feared. 
 This envoy had been a waste of time. 
   
 *** 
   
 Pariah Andosyni—; 
   
 When Zira and I came to, Halcyon's heart had stopped beating. The light was gone, and we were left in cold silence. Curiously neither of us were actually laying on the ground, remaining in the positions right before we'd fallen unconscious—Zira on his knees, me on all fours—and so I knew not much time had passed. Seconds, at best.  
 The proxy obelisk had gained another sphere floating atop its podium; blue, this time. It emanated our typical phosphorescence, resembling an active portal system. Its light was the only form of luminescence left. We stared at it, still in our subdued positions, astonished.  
 —HELP. 
 Sapphire's distress message shook us from our trance.  
 —HELP. 
 Her thoughts were strained, weak. Help was all she could give us. Zira and I rushed to the entrance, following the trail of Fehe'zin corpse-statues on the path. She emitted a final help as we exploded from the entrance—; 
 Just in time to watch Sapphire die. 
 Not only die, but disintegrate. 
 As the winds swept away the last traces of her in a cloud of silvery black dust, two figures—her murderers—turned their chrome, predatory eyes on us; and we knew exactly who they were, all thanks to those Fehe'zin wall drawings. 
   
 *** 
   
 Regalis Lelain-235—; 
   
 IMAGINE MY SURPRISE WHEN I'd thought such an easy job was done, only to see two more mongrels come up from the edifice. Our razor-cages were still active, lucky for that, but the element of surprise was now gone.  
 The first one had been easy. We'd shifted in before she had even moved, and once in proximity our razors had digested her body to its legacy parts. There was nothing left to recover; not a trace of evidence she'd ever existed here.  
 But them.  
 They could see our hexagonal field alit in crimson light, marking our razors' edge. This caused them to dart in opposite directions, and I was surprised to see that their speed rivaled our own. Lassiter and I were forced to do the same—he pursued the gold-haired one, I the black—and because of that our razors' intensity waned. Stacking them together made them lethal; a single razor-cage could only scathe.  
 Both of their hands had morphed into black, sickled pincers. The one I pursued had titian eyes, blazing with unrefined hatred. He wore a furious sneer, and I assumed it wasn't often that a companion of theirs fell. Judging by their prowess alone, they were undoubtedly the apex-civ among our simulations. All that aside, it was only a matter of time before they would tire and our razors would shred them, too. Their impressive acrobatics were but a hair's length from our maneuvers. All it'd take was one misstep.  
 The first to falter was the golden-haired mongrel. Lassiter moved in for the kill, and I turned my attention to his superior, knowing good and well what would happen next. 
 Except it didn't happen like it should have. 
 There should have been a whir of Lassiter's razors chewing up the mongrel's body. Instead there was a crack, like the sound of two solid surfaces colliding. I turned, halting my pursuit of the black-haired, fiery-eyed mongrel to look at the massive cloud of stirred-up sand where Lassiter and his target had been seconds ago. Now he was a hundred yards away, indentions along the white dunes showed where his body had bounced and rolled from being flung so roughly. His razors were deactivated. 
 Lassiter wasn't moving. 
 Then, he turned crystalline. Magenta, reflecting the sky.  
 No. 
 I stood frozen, unable to process this. Never before had I witnessed one of us die. I thought it wasn't possible, not like this. Not to them.  
 The cloud dissipated, revealing the gold-haired Vel'Haru exactly where Lassiter had left him—on the ground, practically cowering. There was another standing in front of him. She was much smaller than her peers, with long onyx hair and eyes that vortexed sterling and violet sparks.  
 Those eyes. 
 It was her. The one from our captive's recast. The one Sarine wished to covet. And now she had killed Sarine's beloved Lassiter, the first Regalis to fall since our Codebreakers. And though she wore a mongrel pincer, I felt her, and she me, and I knew she wasn't Vel'Haru. She was something else. 
 She was us. 
 Oh, shatter-star. She even smiled like us. 
   
 *** 
   
 Leid Koseling—; 
   
 I'd never seen one, but knew it was one all the same. Just like I'd known they were coming for Zira's group, and that their kind watched from afar, harrowed, trying to figure out what to do about mine. It seemed they'd come to a decision. A bad one. 
 For them. 
 Yes, I knew things now. Inexplicably, but all encompassing. I understood the proxies' reasoning behind why they'd done what they did—not to say that I agreed with any of it, but alas, I'd been there, too. All that pain, all that loss. It made you mad. Very mad.   
 But with this knowledge, I'd let it go. I wasn't quick enough to save Sappire, but I would save the rest. I wouldn't blame myself—only the two responsible, now one—and that was it.  
 That was it. 
 I smiled. "Welcome to the Multiverse." I licked my lips, eyeing the hexagonal plasma shield encasing the Framer's body. "Either you put that thing out, or I will." 
 The Framer returned a smile, but his was forlorn. He was a strange-looking creature, with shocks of white and silver hair that covered the tips of his ears. Glowing indigo face-paint etched lines along his jaw and beneath his eyes. He had no lashes, no brows. Ashen skin. Black uniform, a lot more form-fitting than any of mine would have been comfortable with. Tall and lean, but not frail.  
 His eyes held mine. They were noble-silver, streaked with red lightning. "If anything should happen to me, a thousand more of us will take my place." 
 "A thousand more will take your place regardless," I said. "I won't ask you again." 
 At that moment, the rest of our court emerged from the crystal spires of Halcyon. We had formed a circle around the Framer, scythes at the ready. They had gained access by the newly-formed obelisk within, which in hindsight was quite amazing. But that was a thought for later. 
 The Framer, having no other option, killed his shield. I was watching Zira, recognizing that menacing gleam of his eyes, his body language signaling that he was ready to attack the moment our enemy became vulnerable. His expression screamed for retribution. 
 Don't, I warned him.  
 His eyes flicked to me. He killed— 
 —Yes, I know. There is more at stake here.  
 Zira understood. He relaxed. He'd come miles farther since Calenus, I'd give him that much.  
 "Where is Qaira?" I demanded, giving the Framer a moment to process his situation. "Why have you taken him?" 
 "To study," he said, reluctantly. "Honestly I don't know why Sarine kept him alive. I came here to prove you were dangerous, and succeeded." 
 I'd heard that name before. Sarine wants her, a hunter had said. "Yes, we're very dangerous, especially when you kill one of us. Where can I find Sarine?" 
 The Framer smiled, no longer forlorn but amused. "You can't." 
 But his eyes told me I could.  
 I took a step closer, breaking the circle. "If I promise to let you live, will you tell me then?" 
 "Sarine finds you, not the other way around." 
 Pity.  
 In a flash I was behind him. Before the Framer could turn around, I reached up and touched the base of his neck. My fingers were gentle as they made contact with his unusually-cold skin, but he began to scream. The anatomy of whatever cardiovascular system he contained illuminated through his dermis in silvery-crimson threads, and I caught the scent of burning flesh. I ignored his cries, closing my eyes, wading through his prime-knowledge. I gathered what I needed, mapped it into my own conscious stream, and retracted my finger. Again, I wasn't sure how I did this, I just knew that I could. 
 When I opened my eyes the Framer was on his knees, shaking, unable to move.  
 I turned my back, walking away from the circle. "Zira, go ahead." 
 There came a shhck not a second later, and the Framer's agony was abruptly silenced. When I turned to look back at my Court, the Framer's body was a diamond statue, dismembered. 
 His name had been Regalis Lelain-235. 
   
 *** 
 Pariah Andosyni—; 
   
 Leid's gaze drifted over each of us, a frown pulling at her lips. "All of you here is a bit of overkill, don't you think?" 
 "Come again?" asked Adrial, still looking at Lelain's body in shock. 
 "Who's guarding Enigmus?" she paraphrased. The question wasn't meant to be answered, since obviously it was no one.  
 Adrial's eyes finally met hers. He was irritated. "You act like you made it clear where you were going when you suddenly vanished." 
 The rest of us were nowhere near adjusted enough to add an opinion. Aela was murmuring consolations to Zira, who said nothing and looked at the ground, stoic. Yahweh was knelt beside the other Framer's body, poking at it with a newly-formed hand. I was still trying to regain composure from my brush with death. Sapphire's termination had hit me only seconds ago. All I did was stand there, numb. 
 "I think it's best we don't return, seeing what they're capable of," said Yahweh, rising and brushing sand from his uniform. "We have a better chance of defending ourselves here." 
 Leid gave an indifferent shrug. "They'll be hesitant to storm Exo'daius after sensing what happened, at least for a little while. I've got a few other ideas up my sleeve to bolster their caution." With that she turned, walking down the road, away from Halcyon. "I'll meet you all back at Enigmus." 
 "Where are you going now?" demanded Adrial.  
 "Getting Qaira," she said over her shoulder. "Save him a seat at the council, would you?" 
 And then Leid vanished.  
 We were left scratching our heads, staring after her. Whatever had happened between our departures for Niaphali-X and now had lifted her restrictions for travel. And her eyes were frightening. 
 "How does she expect to find him?" murmured Yahweh. He had directed the question to Adrial, but was close enough to me that I'd heard it as well. 
 My noble shook his head. "Your guess is as good as mine. She sounded confident, though, so save Qaira a seat." 
 "Mm," said Yahweh, and then we all headed back into Halcyon to use the portal system. 
 I lingered at the entrance, for Zira. He had strayed behind the others, trudging slowly down the dunes. His regenerated right fist curled and relaxed at his side, eyes cast to the ground. He looked lost.  
 I was a little taken aback by his reaction to losing Sapphire (if that was indeed what was making him so upset, but what else was there?), as up until a few days ago he had appeared indifferent to her membership at the Court. Then again, Zira was always reticent. Knowing him completely was an impossible feat.  
 "Too many," he said upon reaching me, as if having read my mind. "I've lost too many." 
 I've lost too many to ever dare to get close, was what I took from his lament. I had made him get closer to Sapphire. He had bonded with her through empathy. 
 "I'm sorry," I said, and meant it. He didn't respond, only shrugged. I turned to leave, but he grabbed my arm.  
 "Wait." 
 I froze, looking back at him. 
 Zira closed his eyes and sighed. "Synch with me." 
 "Right now? But—" 
 "You need to understand. I should have done it when you and Sapphire did, but..." Again, he sighed. "Just do it." 
 I hesitated. "Alright." 
   
 *** 
   
 DEJECTION 
 Ziranel Throm 
   
 I HADN'T BEGUN MY EXISTENCE AS A highborn like the rest of you. The Court of Enigmus housed important people—some having questionable ethics prior to their arrival, but I digress—with impressive curriculum vitae. But not me. 
 I was a defect, born from a poor and uncaring family that abandoned my brother and I when we were children. Our town was impoverished, as was the rest of the Firian Province. A tyrannical government with a penchant for greed and corruption saw to that. Those who could afford it left our ramshackle home the moment an opportunity arose, so most of the population consisted of sick elderly, orphaned children or young adults. No prospects, no future, no hope. 
 My mother had been an adolescent prostitute, my father a socca pusher from a town over. She had taken socca from a makeshift inhaler through most of her pregnancy with me. As a consequence I was born flawed.  
 There were many flawed children around, but the others could get by from selling socca themselves, thievery or somehow landing an actual labor job and gaining reasonable accommodations. My flaw was disfigurement. Moving around was difficult, and only got worse through the years. By the time I was out of childhood and into mid-adolescence I was forced to use a small wagon to push myself around. The roads weren't maintained and most days the rains left them a muddy bog. Hundreds of times I'd gotten stuck in the mud, only for children to laugh at me and throw garbage. I was forced to sit there and take it, clutching my sack of empty cans and bottles to send to the collector later for enough money to eat. Sometimes the children took the bag, and I'd have to go without until the next day. Eventually someone older would come along and shoo the children away. They would push my wagon out of the mud and to drier grounds, offering a smile of pity.  
 After taking all that I could carry in my wagon to the collector, I stopped at one of the few merchant stores left in the neighborhood. A day's rummaging usually got me two small meat pies and some flavored water. There wasn't much agriculture in the area, as the town was created a century ago for mining. The veins of rich metals had since dried up and all that was left was a few generations of its impoverished who couldn't afford to leave.  
 I would bring the pies and drink home to share with my older brother, who had spent his day working masonry outside of town. At dawn he would walk ten miles to the fields where they built summer houses for richer communities, and make the trek back in the darkness with enough money for bread and a small sack of beans. Breakfast. 
 I often feared one day he would cut his losses and leave, too. Miraculously he was not defective, but strong and made well. Although he never said it I knew that I was a hindrance to him. He could have left town and carved his own path in life; but every night he would come back to the grimy shack we called our home, and every night he would dress my blistered, gnarled hands and feet after placing a sack of beans and bread on the floor next to his cot. 
 But tonight was different. He seemed tenser than usual. Even with the difficulty of our lives, he was always gentle and patient. Not tonight, though. My brother was evidently worried about something. I could sense the tension in his posture and the way his jaw set over and over again. 
 I asked what was wrong as he dressed my wounds, but he didn't tell me until the beans were boiling in a pot over the fire and we'd finished the meat pies. 
 "The other masons are talking about no one wanting anymore houses," he told me, chewing on his lip, an anxious sign. "They say the Vaggas are claiming territory in Shiekhl and scaring people away. Another civil war is breaking out, I bet." 
 Civil war was not an uncommon occurrence in Firia, but never so close to our town, or Shiekhl. Local government was normally able to stave it off further north. Vaggas were nomadic tribes of criminals that had banded together to form a sort of rebel community. They had never come this far because there was nothing to offer. Now with the growing community of the rich building homes and economizing the area, it had caught their attention. If our town was invaded, there wasn't anyone to stop them. We were barely a town, more of a suburban slum of Shiekhl that no one paid attention to. 
 I didn't respond and stirred the beans, grimacing from the pain of doing such a simple task. They were still tough and our firewood was running out.  
 "I'll find something else," he promised, detecting my worry.  
 "There is nothing else here," I muttered, "aside from helping me collect garbage or pushing socca." 
 "At least then I can help you out of the muck," he said with a grin, trying to be funny. All it did was stir up traumatizing thoughts of those children.  
 "Or we could leave," I offered. 
 My brother shook his head. "Nowhere to go. Not for us." 
 Not for me, he meant. I only lowered my gaze on the bubbling pot. "The beans are ready." 
 "Good," he sighed, happy to change the subject.  
 I went to bed that night, worried about tomorrow. 
 The next day, I heard from a small crowd of customers that Vaggas attacked the outer boundaries of Shiekhl that morning. We could see thin plumes of smoke rising from the tree line that bordered our town. 
 That night, my brother didn't come back. 
 He never came back again. 
   
 * 
   
 It wasn't more than a week before Vagga conflicts slid into our boundaries. The place my brother had worked to build was looted and those brave enough to stay were thrown from their excessive homes and murdered in the streets.  
 I continued as usual, having no other option, pushing myself atop the wagon collecting litter in my sack as gunfire and screams echoed in the distance. At the turn of the season, all of the merchants closed shop and headed for the hills. Even the socca pushers left the area, having lost most of their clients. Without my brother to dress my wounds, the sores became dirty and I fell ill with infection. I tried my best to do it on my own, but my fingers were too swollen and gnarled to do a decent job.  
 Then the day came that I was too sick to get out of my cot. It was the first time in my life that I cried, despite everything. I resigned myself to fate, delirious with fever, covered in filth from both collecting garbage and soiling myself during sleep. It was better that I die. In fact I hoped to die before waking again.  
 But I did wake again. And when I did, someone was knelt over me. 
 A man.  
 No one from here; no one from anywhere I'd seen, as limited a scope as that was. 
 I shivered as he felt my sweat-drenched forehead. I felt ashamed of the piss and shit and filth that he could probably smell. All he did was watch me with a sad look on his face. It wasn't pity, but genuine sadness. For some reason that made everything so much worse. 
 He wore a black uniform with a strange emblem that was on fire. His long dark hair shadowed most of his face, obscuring his features, but his eyes shined silver through all the darkness.  
 "Would you like to make a deal?" he asked; his voice was soft, gentle. 
 I had no idea what he wanted from me. I was a dying cripple, no good to anyone. I didn't answer, shuddering with fear and uncertainty. It was difficult to see clearly, and if I'd had food in my stomach I most certainly would have retched. 
 "I can heal you," he went on. "All of the rot inside your body will be gone. You'll be able to walk. More than that, even. Is that something you want?" 
 "W-Who are you?" I managed, wondering now if this was just a hallucination, or a vivid fever-dream.  
 "Someone that can make your life meaningful," he said. He tilted his head and flashed me a warm smile. "I don't normally take people like you, but..." His eyes drifted over my withering form. He didn't finish that sentence. "So, do we have a deal?" 
 Even if this was a dream, it might as well be a good dream. "Yes. W-What must I do?" 
 "Vow to serve me. From now on you'll always be taken care of." 
 I nodded, no longer having the strength to speak. I felt the weight of the cot as I drifted out of consciousness, right before a warm hand pressed against the center of my chest. 
 If this was death, it wasn't nearly as frightening as I'd thought. 
   
 *** 
   
 Pariah Andosyni—; 
   
 Once Zira broke synchronization with me, I recoiled. That brief amount of time had felt like years. His pain still radiated down my fingers and through my knuckles, being the last sensation to fade with our severance.  
 Zira mistook my response for revulsion, and looked away. "Yeah, that's what I thought." 
 "No, wait—"  
 He only shook his head and disappeared into Halcyon's depths. I was left standing there, flabbergasted at knowing what Zira had been. It explained a lot of things. Everything, actually. I would never look at him the same.  
 And, unbeknownst to Zira, that was entirely a good thing. 
 










 
   
 XXII 
 ANODIZED 
   
   
 Qaira Eltruan—; 
   
   
   
 FROM SARINE'S PAINFULLY LONG EXPOSITION I gathered that the Framers were a proud race of xenophobes, whose sole motivation for killing unwitting outsiders was to prevent their own deposition. Unfortunately for them they were on borrowed time despite all the efforts and genocide, and the irony of it was that they had created their own competitors.  
 When she'd finally closed her mouth for the first in what seemed like hours, she looked at me expectantly, like I would start revealing everything about me and mine. And perhaps I would have, if not for several minutes ago when Leid had somehow broken through our conscious stream and did what no Vel'Haru—noble or otherwise—had done prior. She spoke to me telepathically, in this universe. 
 —I've found you. Sit tight.  
 Thank the fucking stars. 
 For whatever reason Sarine didn't seem to pick up on Leid's message. I knew that they used something similar to us in terms of attica, what they called the 'grid', but it must have been exclusive to their resonance. This bolstered the idea that although we were the same, we were also very different.  
 "You know, I used to be like you," I began, crossing my arms and staring idly at the Halon system, still cast in the center of the room. "Afraid of change. Afraid of outsiders. Afraid of progress. But that made sense for me, since I was from a rock-slinging low-civ and not a universal governing entity." My eyes slid toward Sarine, relishing the look of surprise on her face. It was the most emotion I'd ever seen her wear. "So, who exactly is this Codemaker asshole? You seem to follow his rules without logic, like lessers do with religion. Is that what you are? Religious?"  
 There was no translatable term for religion apparently, because Sarine was confused. "The Codemaker has kept us and alpha-Insipia safe for millennia." 
 "He's kept your heads in the sand." Again, no translatable phrase for that. This was getting frustrating. "Why can't you go out into the multiverse? Have you ever stopped to think that if you were capable of creating simulated universes, couldn't someone else have created this one?" 
 "You agreed to tell your story if I told mine," she reminded me, evidently tired of my third-degree.  
 I gave her a mean grin. "Yeah, that won't be necessary anymore." 
 "Must I remind you that deception comes with a price?" 
 "The reason you want me to tell our story is so that you can find out more about her." I shrugged. "Like I said, that isn't necessary anymore." 
 "And why is that?" 
 "Because she's on her way." 
   
 *** 
   
 Regalis Sarine-375—; 
   
   
 Because she's on her way. 
 He'd said that with a gleam of malice in his eyes. This had been the plan all along. He didn't realize what I was trying to do. If I'd been able to prove they were on the same level of intellect as us, if I'd been able to show that they meant us no harm—; 
 But now, all of it was for naught. 
 More importantly than that, how was she on her way? How could she possibly locate us if we were in an immersion sequence? This dimension wasn't even accessible to our midciv subjects. Not without a chaperone. 
 "You don't understand," I said, trying to make him see reason. I fell into the Grid to locate Lassiter and Lelain, except they were no longer active in Avadara. They were no longer active anywhere. No.  
 Shatterstar, I'd told him not to do this. I'd told him. 
 "I understand perfectly well," said Qaira, his expression falling into a scowl. "You want to wipe us out for no other reason than being a possible threat." 
 "Regals want to wipe you out, not me. Why do you think you're still alive? This is not business as usual. I am trying to show them that you are not a threat." 
 He laughed in spite of me. "Trying to show that we're not a threat by nearly killing our Queen and kidnapping her husband? You started this with violence, it will end with violence." 
 Qaira was her lover. Wonderful.  
 The room flickered then, the simulated scenery flitted in and out of reality. The pressure in the room increased, enough to feel a compression at my temples. I thought of killing him then, although that would only disprove my intentions even more. If Lelain and Lassiter were no more, surely that meant she could do away with me, too. 
 Or not. But I didn't want to fight. 
 "Since I'm a man of my word, let me give you some cliff notes," said Qaira, taking a step forward, narrowing his eyes. "We are the apex race of the Multiverse, having bypassed your Codebreaker sequence. The only thing limiting us now is you." 
 A burst of fractal light at the center of the room made me turn. The light melded into a shape, and then took form. There she was, her angry anodized-violet eyes burning a hole right through me. Before anything could be said, she snapped her fingers and Qaira disappeared. 
 I steeled my expression, suppressing the shock of her abilities. There were many things these Vel'Haru were making me feel; things I hadn't felt for as long as I could remember. Generations ago, most likely. 
 She said nothing, staring up at me, as if expecting something. We studied each other marveling at our similarities and differences. Her morphology was different than Qaira's. They were not a unified species like the other hybrids we'd come across. They were... an umbrella species. Not many of those existed here.  
 "What happened to the envoy?" I asked. 
 "Your emissaries had terrible manners," she said, unblinking. "They killed one of mine, so now they are broken statues buried in Halcyon's desert." 
 "Who are you?"  
 "My name is Leid Koseling, Queen of the Court of Enigmus. You are Regalis Sarine, 375th generation of Halon IV." 
 "How...?" 
 "One of your emissaries was kind enough to lend me his knowledge. I've synchronized with your Grid. I know everything about you, and yours." 
 Shatterstar. "And what happens now, then?" 
 Leid smiled sweetly, though the intention behind it was anything but. The emblazoned crest on her battle-armor intensified, as if foreshadowing what was to come. "What happens is entirely up to you. I offer a truce. Allow us passage into alpha-Insipia and to live here undisturbed. We won't bother you if you don't bother us."  
 Authority would never stand for that. "If you know everything, then you must know I'm not the deciding factor upon such a request." 
 Leid sighed lightly. "You are a deciding factor. I don't appreciate games, Regal." 
 "I'm not playing games. I am the only one within Authority who has confidence that you are not a threat. You are proving me wrong." 
 "Your envoy proved you wrong. In fact they proved that you are the threat. If you think I could allow your subjects to hurt my own without retaliation, then perhaps a truce is a waste of time."  
 "Authority will not allow for a truce." 
 The space around Leid rippled with particle excitation. I could see the violet haze emanating from her form and I shrank backward. "Tell your Authority that my offer still stands, but only for a limited time." 
 An explosion of force broke the submersion, shattering the simulation like a mirror. I felt myself falling backward through darkness, hitting something solid. 
 Snap. 
 










 
   
 XXIII 
 BALLAST 
   
   
 Yahweh Telei—; 
   
   
   
 THE COUNCIL ROOM HAD A strange air to it. Sapphire's seat was empty, Qaira's now filled, but the mood was melancholy, uneasy. It was an unusual atmosphere, less familiar than the pensive and anticipatory one that had filled these walls up until now.  
 We kept sneaking looks at Qaira—at least all the guardians did—but he kept his gaze steeled to the attica cast as Leid and Adrial prepared for our briefing. I wanted to know if he was okay and what had happened during his time with the Framers, though he hadn't said anything since he'd returned. He had arrived back in Exo'daius at the center of the portal system, his uniform reduced to a little more than rags. We had helped him to his room to bathe and change. He had vehemently denied help, but we ignored him. Qaira had also denied needing food but his plate was empty when we retrieved it, his room hazy with malay smoke. 
 Now he stood sentry at the table, his expression was typical Qaira; a thin frown and an apathetic (yet steady, always steady) stare. I figured he was waiting to share what he could with all of us here. 
 The cast was a split-screen projection of the Avadaran Niaphali system and a vaguely filled out alpha-Insipian Halon IV system, which Leid must have updated before holding the briefing. We could see Exo'daius on the map, and it was sobering to realize this place, along with its surrounding environment, was no more special than any world we'd come to know prior.  
 Each new discovery took the magic out of things—although every scholar understood that magic was merely science left unexplained. Still, even I wished for magic sometimes. 
 The briefing's purpose was simple: each of us knew different parts of the story. It was time to bring them all together to make a unified, cohesive theory, which would hopefully lead to a logical course of action. Hopefully. 
 "Ten thousand Exodian years ago," began Leid, "Halcyon was constructed by the Framers and their Rhazekan guardians, the Proxies. How or why they chose that location is unknown. It is also unknown as to whether the Proxies had lived on Philo with Framers, or if the Framers had taken their guardians to Halcyon. Judging by the murals captured by Zira's team, the Framers must have at least explored Philo and recruited their guardians from the Rhazekan home planet." 
 "So why did they torch the place?" asked Qaira. 
 "They didn't," said Leid. "The Framers expired and turned on their guardians. The surviving Proxies, in turn, started destroying everything in their wake. Philo included." 
 Qaira lifted a brow. "That's a pointless form of revenge. The Rhazekan had nothing to do with the Framers." 
 "We don't know that. We also don't know if there were other Framers still living on Philo at the time." At Qaira's incredulity, Leid sighed. "You've met a proxy. Was she a reasonable being?"  
 Qaira shrugged. "If they attacked Philo then that must have meant more Framers lived there." 
 Leid nodded. "We'll run with that theory, since it's the soundest." A second thread-cast materialized beside the other. Leid noted our conclusions into the data-log.  
 Meeting minutes, bullet-points and all. 
 "So what of the Fehe'zin?" I asked. "They were also guardians of Framers. Does that mean multiple groups of Framers created guardians of different species all across Avadara?" 
 "And why?" added Aela. 
 "It appears as such," said Adrial, stroking his chin. "As to why, I don't know. Perhaps they were unable to procreate in Avadara, and guardian-conversion was the only way to continue their line." 
 Leid added Adrial's rationale to the meeting minutes. "The Fehe'zin and other Framer-constituents can be pondered on later." That was her polite way of saying stay on course. "If the Framers were once ambivalent towards us, what changed?" 
 "They were never ambivalent toward us," said Qaira. "There was a dissenting faction that moved into Avadara after they created it. The majority of the Framer civilization stayed behind, obeying their Codemaker's Law." 
 Leid raised her brows in inquiry. "Why create a universe if you don't intend to inhabit it?" 
 "Research purposes, I assume." Qaira nodded in my direction. "Sort of like the Celestial Contest. Or perhaps they were bored. I don't remember; Sarine talked a lot." 
 "That was kind of an important thing to pay attention to," snapped Zira.  
 Qaira shot him a look, saying nothing. 
 "What was the difference between the dissenting Framers and the obliging Framers?" asked Pariah. 
 "Come again?" asked Qaira. 
 "Why did the Framers who left their home universe expire?" he elaborated. "Obviously something is different, or else the Insipian Framers would have expired by now, too." 
 "The Codemaker added some kind of programming into Avadara," said Qaira, evidently struggling with this concept. "Or maybe into the dissenters themselves. Once they crossed and stayed there for a certain amount of time, a self-destruct sequence was initiated. The Codebreaker cypher, Sarine called it." 
 I was taken back to Akkaroz, at the time of Leid's expiration.  
 Initiating Codebreaker sequence, she had said with those empty, clouded-over eyes. Yes, it all made sense now. That sequence had been a form of damage control. Eventually the dissenters and any trace of their legacy would implode. 
 "Apparently the cypher doesn't run indefinitely," said Adrial. "Or else Leid wouldn't have ever made it back." 
 "Something else must happen after the cypher runs its course," added Zira. "Something that brings us closer to the... source." 
 We all looked at him, expectantly. 
  Zira pointed at Leid. "Look at her eyes, and look at what she can do. Whatever transformation takes place raises us another step up the ladder, closer to Framer physiology." 
 "Except stronger," said Qaira. "Because Leid can frame in every universe, not just Insipia." 
 "All of this was intended," said Pariah, seemingly to himself, as if he'd come to some sudden revelation. "The Fehe'zin thought they were protected in Halcyon, called to it by the relic. It's no coincidence that the relic shattered the moment Arigul was... sacrificed." 
 Sacrificed. Whatever power had been housed in Halcyon needed something equally as strong to release it. Halcyon had been a pen, the Fehe'zin its cattle, awaiting slaughter. Exodian resonance of any form had been the key to that lock.  
 And with that thought, the last puzzle piece slid into place. "Oraniquitis must have been among the ones who created Halcyon," I declared. "She intended to go back, housed in Qaira, to give him that power and knowledge." 
 Everyone fell silent, reflecting on that. 
 "So why Leid, then?" asked Aela.  
 "Better her than me," muttered Qaira. 
 "Why did the Proxy relic choose Leid instead of anyone else?" she elaborated when everyone else failed to respond. 
 "She's the only one of us not bound by that Codebreaker sequence," said Adrial, glancing at Leid. "Judging by Oran's methodical planning and foresight, it appears the Proxies were not bound by it, either. They weren't insane from expiration." 
 "Only loss," murmured Leid, her eyes cast to the table, remiss. "Stronger or not, there are ten million registered Framers in the Halon Supercluster alone. My abilities mean nothing against that many. If and when they come again, they will have much better defenses. Our novelty has worn off. They know what to expect now." 
 "How long will your shield hold?" asked Qaira. 
 "Not long," said Leid, shaking her head. She was able to restore the proxy shield that had enveloped Enigmus's island. Tiny strings of script scrolled in red iridescence along its boundaries. "They already know where we are. I'm just cloaking our activity." 
 "Where to next, then?" asked Adrial. 
 "Good question, and I expect an answer in no more than a day," said Leid. "Everyone except for Qaira and Yahweh are to direct all of their attention to finding a suitable sanctuary in the Multiverse. It can't be inhabited, but must suit our basic needs. More importantly, it must be remote. The further away we are from detection, the longer we have to prepare." 
 Prepare for what?  
 Did Leid actually plan to enter war with the Framers? No, that was far too rash for her; without a doubt there was another card up her sleeve. 
 "And what are you having us do?" inquired Qaira, a lascivious grin lifting one side of his mouth. Of course he enjoyed the thought of war. Why wouldn't he? 
 "You and Yahweh are to work on finding a way to integrate grid data with attica. We will also need to develop new methods of defense against the Framers." Leid's eyes slid to Sapphire's vacant seat. "She was one of our oldest and strongest, which means none of you hold a candle to them as it stands. Even without their full abilities, they're about on par with a noble." 
 "Can't you just frame them to be weaker?" asked Zira. 
 "I'm unable to alter people. I wouldn't do that anyway. Ethically we are better than that, aren't we?" 
 "Fuck ethics," spat Qaira. "They don't deserve our mercy, not after what they've done. If you could frame them out of existence the moment they crossed into the Multiverse, we wouldn't have to waste time on other measures." 
 Leid stared at Qaira, frowning at his short-sightedness. "You forget what we are. The goal is not to hide in the Multiverse; it's to be able to explore alpha-Insipia. This is our home. We will not be driven out of it permanently." 
 "Amen," said Adrial. "Leid has offered the Framer Authority a truce. If they decline, we will force them into a truce by any means necessary. That requires us to have access into Exo'daius." 
 "They could seal the tear at any moment," I said.  
 "They can't," said Aela. "Not with Leid around." 
 I kept forgetting about her new abilities. In fact I wasn't quite sure of what all she was capable of anymore. No one was, not even Leid herself. That would be the fun part, figuring all of this out. Despite the constant threat of imminent death, I found myself somewhat excited for the task she'd assigned me. "When do we leave Enigmus?" 
 "As soon as we can find another place of residence. No more than a day, as I've said." Leid bowed her head. "The Court is adjourned. I'd start packing now, if I were you." 
   
 * 
   
 Packing would be easy for everyone except me. All of my ingredients and tinctures would take over a dozen satchels to clean out. That was impossible—or, at least more labor intensive than anyone was willing to put up with—so now I had to figure out which items I could live without. 
 Nothing. I couldn't live without any of them.  
 With a hopeless sigh I sank into the seat at my desk, mulling over what to toss. It wasn't long before the pharmacy doorway flickered, and I turned toward the sudden shift in scenery.  
 Ah, Zira. Not even back for a couple of hours and already looking for a fix. "If you want your usual, you're going to have to take my entire month's stock. I'm liquidating all the compounds." 
 Zira shifted uneasily, averting my stare as usual. "I'll take it, but I was looking for something else." 
 I tilted my head. "Oh? And what would that be?" 
 "Something..." He hesitated, struggling to finish. "Something to lighten my mood." 
 With a subtle nod I left my desk and combed through my stock. Veesa Athularium would do the trick. It was from a plant found in the Arvos System that secreted an anti-depressant like chemical that promoted a certain feel-good neurotransmitter. I'd extracted and concentrated the chemical. It had taken a year of work to perfect the dosage, but Adrial had been a very cooperative patient despite a few minor setbacks.  
 I selected the tincture. "How much do you need?" 
 Zira shrugged. "A few weeks' worth, perhaps." 
 "It's none of my business," I began, pouring the stock into individual vials at my bench, "but if this is about Sapphire, you shouldn't avoid mourning. It's a necessary process." 
 "You're right, it is none of your business," said Zira, coolly. "And it's not just about Sapphire. Thanks for your concern, though." 
 I shrugged, bringing him the vials in a small satchel. I gave him the stimulant stock in one satchel and a dosage dropper in another. "Please don't combine these. It could induce mania, which nobody needs." 
 Zira nodded, reaching for the satchels. I held firmly to them.  
 "I'm not handing these over until you look at me," I said. 
 Surprised, Zira did. He said nothing, however, looking at me as if I'd smacked him across the face.  
 "I'm not Ixiah. I didn't make his mistakes, and I don't deserve to be stained with them because of how I look. Obviously you aren't mourning properly, because you still haven't gotten over—" 
 I was cut short when Zira shoved me into the wall, holding me there with a firm hand against my shoulder. It wasn't violent, just forceful, and he leaned in so that our faces were inches apart.  
 "Alright," he said, quietly, "I'm looking at you. Now what?" 
 It was my turn to be silent, shocked by what had just happened.  
 My hesitation made him grin. "You don't even know what you want, do you? You think any of this is about Ixiah?" Then, Zira released me and snatched the satchels out of my hands. He didn't look back when he vacated the pharmacy. 
 I was left staring after him, rubbing my shoulder absent-mindedly. It wasn't until minutes later that I realized what Zira had meant. Oh. 
 Well, now I felt very stupid.  
   
 










 
   
 XIV 
 VALEDICTION OF A CAGED EXISTENCE 
   
   
 Qaira Eltruan—; 
   
   
   
   
 AS THE OTHER SCHOLARS LEFT TO our new refuge, Adrial, Leid and I surveyed Enigmus from the hill overlooking both its courtyard and the Khel'Hanna Scar. A sudden flash of memories came to me 
 —staggering down the hill toward the gated yard, injured beyond repair, as Zira and Ixiah looked up from a game they were playing— 
  The shock that had been displayed in their eyes was amusing now, not so much then. 
 "This is a bit dramatic, don't you think?" asked Adrial, evidently pained by the thought of what would happen next. I could empathize, but would never admit it.  
 "We can't leave anything behind," said Leid, near-whisper. "They can't know anything about us." 
 Adrial sucked on his malay cigarette, sullen. "I'll meet you all later, then." 
 He flicked the cigarette down the hill and headed for the Scar.  I watched it roll away in a ribbon of purple smoke. Leid was remiss, gazing over the obsidian spires, reluctant to proceed. 
 "We'll make a better one," I encouraged. "One that's completely ours and doesn't reek of centuries-long subjugation." 
 Leid closed her eyes, trying to imagine that. She smiled, exhaling. "I love you." 
 I responded by kissing the top of her head. She smelled of lavender. Always lavender. "I'll wait for you at the portal. Let's get this show on the road." 
 Her eyes lifted to the sky and she raised her hands as I followed after Adrial. I didn't look back as the demolition began. Its thunder cracked across the sky like a war-cry of a new era.  
 Music to my ears. 
 










 
   
 O 
 EPILOGUE 
   
   
 Regalis Sarine-376—; 
   
   
   
   
   
 CODEMAKER SEQUENCE ACTIVATED... 
 RETRIEVING DATA... 
 TRANSFERENCE INITIATED... 
 NEUROTRANSFERENCE COMPLETE. 
 WELCOME BACK, REGALIS SARINE-376. 
   
   
   
 Oh, that savage, impetuous woman. 
 I'd see her dead, if it was the last thing that I did.  
   
 * 
   
 THE CROWD OF REGALS AND MEMBERS OF Authority all hushed as I entered the room. A few of them quietly asked how I was as I moved into position around the smooth, oval table. Normally it was only a dozen or so Regals present for non-conforming events, however word of a cross-breed capable of placing three Framers into stasis had attracted some attention. Now the room was teeming with Regals, some not even from the Halon IV system at all.  
   I didn't respond to the disingenuous questions about my well-being. None of them actually cared, more interested in speaking with a Framer who had suffered a true death for the first time in six millennia. Oddly, some of them had a glimmer of envy in their eyes. Having your neck broken was nothing to be envious about. I still had a headache from the neurotransference chamber. I wanted my old carapace back; I hadn't been conscious to choose this one. 
 The theme tonight was ocean fauna, and aquatic cephalopods, sponges and other nonsense flitted and floated around us distractingly. The walls shimmered gold and aquamarine, symbolizing the colors of most oceans on the habitable worlds across Halon IV.  
 "Sarine," greeted Genozophi-155, trying his best to appear solemn, "I'm so sorry to hear about Lelain and Lassiter. Luckily you were retrievable."  
 My partners weren't so lucky. No one would dare fetch them out of Simulation-1 for a transfer. I didn't blame them. Still, the thought of their permanent absence made my chest tighten. It was very uncomfortable. "Thank you. What has Authority discovered while I was in stasis?" 
 "Exo'daius went dark after Lelain and Lassiter were severed from the grid. Yesterday we were able to pick them up on the obelisks again and sent a team of shells into their territory." Genzophi activated the grid-cast for everyone to see. It showed piles of obsidian rubble and a few still-standing, screw-like pillars amid a yellow field. "It appears they destroyed everything and left, Regalis." 
 "Has the grid picked up anything in the Sims?" I asked. 
 Genzophi shook his head. "No, they've figured out how to cloak their activity." 
 "Shatter-star," I cursed under my breath, yet still audibly enough for those closest to me to hear. "Did you have the shells survey the wreckage?" 
 "For what?" inquired Adon.  
 "For anything," I said, more than irritated by their ignorance. Authority had little knowledge of the Insipian Qualification Directive. They had never managed it without me, and I was willing to bet no one had even read the operating procedure for the Breach ephemeris. "Bring the shells back out and analyze everything. I want every piece of rubble searched." 
 "There was one thing the shells detected," offered a Framer I'd never seen before. The grid told me his name was Dracian-786, which hung above his head like a placard. He was a Regal of Halon I. They seldom ventured out this far, usually too busy with old-system politics. He had chosen the body of an adolescent, barely past puberty, draped in an aquamarine coat and matching glitter-paint that ran down his eyes like tears. "The portal leading to Sim-3 was still hot. Apaeria Minor, the locals call it." 
 I nodded.  
 "We should gather a crew to go after them," urged Adon. 
 "Not until we find out everything we can," I said. "We won't repeat Lelain's mistake. His submersion is retrievable from the grid if we can get an Extractor to decrypt the stasis relay. We'll study the feed and optimize our defense systems. I want to know how Leid shattered their cages." 
 As the meeting concluded, Dracian-786 lingered when all the other Halon I representatives departed. Since Genzophi hosted the meeting, I was not willing to stay in his aperture and give him the chance to query me about my death.  
 As I chose coordinates to return to my own vector, Dracian intercepted me. "Regalis, I need to speak to you privately." 
 "Concerning?" I asked, reading nothing from his jubilant expression. I realized then that there was a reason for choosing such a young carapace.  
 His cerulean-sparked eyes flicked to Genzophi, who was starting to make his way toward us. "I'll explain once we are alone. Your aperture or mine?" 
   
 * 
   
 You could tell a lot about someone by their apertures. As soon as I transferred into Dracian's, it was clear he was... unique, even by our standards. The young carapace had hinted toward that, but this solidified it. 
 Vines of red and gold leaves snaked along the walls. Crystal pillars marked each corner of the room, holding light fixtures that switched between color spectrums every minute or so. The ground appeared marble, but liquid below the surface—lava, almost—which formed bubbles and rose around us to the ceiling in reverse gravity. There was a grid-console next to a pillar in the left corner, a stasis-tonic dispenser and recharge station in the right. 
 I spent more time than I should have taking in his design selections. Mainly because I couldn't find any familiarity in the scenery. Then again, I was not familiar with Halon I. If this was a representation of the system, it was a strange place indeed. 
 "I read over the NCE ephemeris you submitted to Authority," began Dracian. "The Rhazekan hybrids were living on Exo'daius this entire time, yet you never specified how they evaded the obelisks' detection."  
 "I didn't realize Regals from Halon I would take interest in Breach matters," I said, more a question than a refusal to relay exclusive information.  
 Dracian paid me a youthful smile. "Your quandary has gotten the attention of the Reticulum. I've been sent from Telaram to inspect the IQD." He must have seen the look of shock on my face because he laughed and added, "You're not in any trouble." 
 Yet, he meant. I'm not in any trouble yet. 
 I understood that this was a big deal. Framers had been without a threat for eons. The fact that two of them had succumbed to permanent stasis by an error we'd thought nearly remediated up until now should have gotten the attention of Inspectors. He just... didn't seem like one at all.  
 More importantly, Inspectors were tasked by the Codemaker himself. That meant I had gained attention at Reticulum. I wasn't sure if this was a good or bad thing. "I am happy to assist you with whatever you may need, Inspector Dracian-328." 
 "You can call me Drace," he said, smile never waning. Had I still worn my old carapace, he'd have had to look up very far to match my gaze. I'd been given a generic, unadorned replacement that was only slightly taller than him. Default settings.  
 I internalized a sigh. "Drace, of course." 
 "Well then," said Drace, gesturing to the grid console. "Let's get to work, shall we?" 
 










 
 TITLES IN THE HYMN OF THE MULTIVERSE: 
   
   
 This series is on-going. Can't wait for the next Hymn of the Multiverse installment? Sign up to receive an email notification whenever a new book drops: http://eepurl.com/dDFIy5 
   
 (THE ANTITHESIS) 
 1 - INCEPTION 
 2 - HONOR 
 3 - FALLEN 
 4 - WAR 
 5 - VENGEANCE 
 (DYSPHORIA) 
 1 - RISE 
 2 - PERMANENCE (4/2019) 
   
   
 You can also connect through facebook: https://www.facebook.com/terrawhitemanscifi/ 
   
   
   
   
   
   




